Report No. 706-KE                                                                FILE  Copy
Appraisal of the
Second Forestry Plantation Project
Kenya
June 4, 1975
Eastern Africa Projects Department
General Agriculture Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Interriational Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -       Kenya Shillings (K Sh)
K Sh 1.00           -       US$0.14
K Sh Million        -       US$140,056
E1.00 Sterling      -       K Sh 17.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)    -       2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)   -       2.204 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
m3      -    Cubic meter
m3(r)   -    Cubic meter of roundwood
m3(s)   -    Cubic meter of sawnwood
(ub)    -    Under bark
(ob)    -    Over bark
ADMTA   -    Air dried metric ton per annum
EAAFRO  -    East African Agriculture and Forestry
Research Organization
FITC    -    Forest Industrial Training Center
MAI     -    Mean annual increment
DDU     -    Bone dry unit
GOVERNMENT OF KENYA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY   AND   CONCLUSIONS   .............................                                                   i-   iii
I.  INTRODUCTION .                              ........................................                                    1
II.   BACKGROUND ..........................................                                                                   2
A.        General   ........................................                                                      2
B.       Forest  Resources  and  Industries  ....                                       ............              3
C.       Government   Forest   Services   .....................                                                   5
III.         FIRST   FOREST   PLANTATION   PROJECT   .....................                                                     6
IV.        THE   PROJECT   .........................................                                                          7
A.       Brief   Description   ..............................                                                     7
B.       Detailed   Features   ..............................                                                     8
C.       Project   Cost   ...................................                                                   12
D.       Financing   ......................................                                                     13
E.       Procurement   ....................................                                                     14
F.   Disbursement ...................................    14
G.       Accounts   and   Audit   .............................                                                 15
V.       ORGANIZATION   AND  MANAGEMENT   .........................                                                       15
VI.        PRODUCTION,   MARKETS   AND   PRICES   ......................                                                    16
A.       Yield   and  Production   ...........................                                                  16
B.       Markets   and  Prices   .............................                                                  17
VII.         BENEFITS   AND  JUSTIFICATIONS   ..........                                 ..         .............             18
A.       Financial   Evaluation   ...........................                                                   18
B.       Economic   Evaluation   ............................                                                   19
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....... ........                                                                20



ANNEXES
1.   Forest Development Strategy
Appendix 1 - Environmental Impact
Appendix 2 - Draft Terms of Reference for Forest Land Use Study-'
Table l    - Forest Regions in Kenya
2.   Forest industries
Appendix I - Technical Assistance for Sawmilling Industry
Appendix 2 - Proposed Training Sawmill
Table 1    - Schedule of Sawmnills Operating on. Long-term
Licenses in Forest Reserves
Table 2    - Stumpage Price in Percentage of Production Inputs
for Kenyan Sawmills Producing Softwood
3.   Plantation Establishment and Development
Table 1    - Physical Work Schedule
Table 2    - Man-Power Requirement
Table 3    - Plantation Management Plan
Table 4    - Existing & Projected Planting Areas
Table 5    - Vehicle & Equipment Requirements
Table 6    - Building & Housing Requirements
4.   Organization and Management
Appendix t - Scope of Proposed Socio-Economic Study
Appendix 2 - Coastal Trial Plantations and Development
Table 1    - Physical Program and Costs - Arabuko Sokoke Trials
5.   Project Cost Estimates
Table 1    - Project Costs
6.   Table 1    - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7.   Production, Markets and Prices
Table 1    - Estimated Sawlcg Availability, Producticii
Capability, Domestic Sawlog and Sawn
Timber Demand
Table ?    - Projections of Sawlog Availability fror
Sawlog Circle and indigenous Forest
Table      - Volume of Sales of Round Logs
Table b    - Domest!L- and Export Sales
Table 5    - Royalty Trend (Stumpage) and Selling Price
8.   Table 1    Government Cash Flow from the Project
9.   Economic Evaluation
Table 1    - Economic Internal Rate of Return Calculation - Saw'Log
Table 2    - Economic Internal Rate of Return Calculation - Pulpwood
CHART
Project Organization - World Bank 9699
MAP
Kenya ForestrY -  BRD No. i1437



KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
SUNMUARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       Kenya's forests are of fundamental importance to the country's future
development, not only as a valuable economic resource, but also in playing
a crucial role in the preservation of water catchment areas and the prevention
of soil erosion. The forests, and more particularly nature reserves, help
protect the country's rich and diverse plant and animal life and offer an
important source of tourist revenue. Over the past fifty years, however,
these natural forests have continually been exploited for sawn lumber, charcoal
and other forest products, and many of those which have been cleared are now
being transformed into commercial plantations. Elsewhere, parts of the
natural forest have in recent years been given over to controlled or spontaneous
settlement as a result of intense population pressure in many agricultural
areas. Only recently however has attention being given to the effect of these
developments on the various ecosystems within Kenya, and has the need become
apparent to work out a land use plan which would form the basis of establish-
ing appropriate priorities between competing land uses (e.g. forestry, agri-
culture, wildlife, nature and recreation).
(ii)      The Project would, over six years, continue and expand a first phase
project supported by the Bank in 1969 to include the total industrial plantation
program of the Forest Department. The Project would complete the Government's
target long-term planting program of 136,000 ha of sawlog and 24,000 ha of
pulpwood plantations by 1980. It would also include the further development
(weeding, pruning and thinning) of plantations already established.
(iii)     Specifically, the Project would establish 40,000 ha of industrial
plantations and reforest 6,000 ha of clearfelled plantation areas. The
Project would assist the further development of 120,000 ha of already established
plantations. Provision would be made for constructing 160 km of all-weather
forest roads and plantation access tracks, and for upgrading 20 km of service
roads each year; new or improved roads and tracks would be maintained. The
Project would include the construction of one new Division Headquarters, 4
new stations and 12 new substations of the Forest Department. Based on a
study to be undertaken of standards and building techniques for low-cost
housing for forest workers, some 2,000 houses will be constructed and 1,300
existing houses will be improved. Equipment provided for various types of
project activities would include bulldozers, loaders, graders, lorries and
tractors. Technical assistance would be provided with the objective of
improving the efficiency of some of the existing small sawmills which are
experiencing technical, managerial and financial problems. This assistance
would also include provision for trial plantations in the coastal areas, and
for a comprehensive land use study. This study would give particular atten-
tion to the need for preserving natural forest cover in water catchment areas



- ii -
and to the development of a comprehensive land use program. Finally an Inter-
Mlinisterial Land Use Committee would be set up to help implement the recommenda-
tions of the study and to adjudicate disputes over competing land uses.
(iv)      The Project would be executed by the Forest Department of the
2linistry of Natural Resources. Project activities would be directed by the
Project Manager who would report directly to the Chief Conservator. He would
be assisted by an Assistant Project Manager, a Financial Controller, and
sapporting staff. The Project Manager would also be assisted for 2 years by
an internationally recruited Forest Economist whose tasks would include
investigations into the creation of new employment opportunities for forest
labor, the introduction of more efficient operating methods and overhead cost
reductions, and a review of future rural fuel wood demands and supplies.
(v) The estimated cost of the Project including contirngencies is K Sh 396.5
million (US$55.5 million), for which.a Bank loan of US$10.0 million and an
IDA Credit of US$10.0 million are proposed. The IDA credit would be on
standard terms of Government and the Bank loan would be for a period of 25
years including a ten year grace period at 8-1/2% interest annually. Together
these would finance the foreign exchange cost of US$12.9 million and about
17% of local costs ((US$7.1 million) or about 36% of total Project cost.
Of the US$35.5 million equivalent remaining for Government to finance, it is
estimated that about US$18 million would be offset by revenues from industrial
plantation stumpage fees and about US$2 million would be realized from taxes
and duties, leaving a net balance of US$15.5 million to be financed by Govern-
ment. The Governments of Sweden and Finland have expressed interest in
ftinancing technical assistance for the land use study (US$200,000) and the
saw'-illing training program (US$500,000).  In the event that such financing
was agreed, the Bank/IDA contribution towards these items would be trans-
ferred to other Project requirements. Procurement of equipment and vehicles
((US$3.6 million) in orders exceeding US$50,000 would be by international
competitive bidding. Both plantation and infrastructure work would be ex-
ecuted by the Forest Department on force account since due to the scattered
natture of the work it is unlikely to attract either international or local
competitive bids.
(vi)      When fully established, the plantations would be the primary source
of raw material for the pulp and paper factory at Webuye and for the country's
sawmills. Of about 46,000 ha planted during the Project period 38,000 ha
would be used for sawlogs and the rest for pulpwood. The Project would
produce about 2.1 million m3/year of sawlogs beginning about the year 2,000
and about 0.3 million m3/year of pulpwood beginning about 1990.
(vii)     The economic rate of return for sawlog plantations is estimated to
be 18% over 25 years, and the return for pulpwood plantations is estimated to
be 25% over 15 years. Sensitivity tests under various assumptions have shown
that the internal economic rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes
in costs and benefits within a reasonable range. The Project would benefit
many parts of Kenya and provide continued employment for about 4,750 people



- iii -
ever six years.  While direct employment in plantation-related activity may
begin to decrease from about 1981 onwards, there would be offsetting employ-
ment in later years in the logging and industrial operations.  The Project
is not expected to have any tangible negative effects on the ecosystem of
the area to be planted. The socio-economic and environmental studies provided
by the Project cotuld have significant intangible benefits.
(viii)    This would be the second Bank Group Project in Kenya for the forestry
sub-sector. Since 1960 the Bank Group has extended ten other loans or credits
totalling US$71.2 million which have been approved for Kenya's agricultural
sector.  These include a loan of Us$2.6 million in 1964 for settl..ment, two
credits in 1967 and 1972 respectively to support an agricultutal credit pro-
gram, two credits for livestock, two credits for smallholder tea plantations,
a loan for forest plantation and a loan/credit for a group farms project.
In general all projects have been wel-l executed, although there were sub-
stantial delays in the first agricultural credit project and the first live-
stock project owing to institutional problems. IFC has assisted Panafrican
Paper Mills to the extent of US$17.6 million for the establishment of the
Webuye mill.
(ix)      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$10.0 million and an
IDA Credit of US$10.0 million to the Government of the Republic of Kenya.






KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      Kenya's forests are of fundamental importance to the colutry's
future development, not only as a valuable economic resource, but also in
playing a crucial role in the preservation of water catchment areas and the
prevention of soil erosion. The forests, and more particularly nature
reserves, help protect the country's rich and diverse plant and animal life
and offer an important source of tourist revenue.  Over the past fifty years,
however, these natural forests have continually been exploited for sawn lumber,
charcoal and other forest products, and many of those which have been cleared
are now being transformed into commercial plantations. Elsewhere parts of
the natural forest have in recent years been given over to controlled or
spontaneous settlement as a result of intense population pressure irn many
agricultural areas. Only recently however has attention being given to the
effect of these developments on the various ecosystems within Kenya, and has
the need become apparent to work out a land use plan which would form the
basis of establishing appropriate priorities between competing land uses
(e.g. forestry, agriculture, wildlife, nature and recreation).  In this way
representative samples of the most important forest ecosystems can be pre-
served, and the present conflicts over optimum land use minimized.
1.02      Since 1969, IBRD has been supporting through a loan of US$2.6 mil-
lion an afforestation project for the production of sawlogs and pulpwood, the
latter to help meet the raw material needs of the new established pulp and
paper mill at Webuye 1/. This project has been successful technically, though
the operation of a separate project within the Government's larger industrial
plantation program caused some administrative difficulties. The proposed
Project would thus extend the scope of the first phase by providing support
over six years to the whole of the Forest Department's industrial planta-
tion activities and which would complete by 1980 the Government's present
long-term planting program. In addition the Project would through a variety
of measures support Government's endeavors to strengthen environmental pro-
tection in the forest areas.
1.03      Apart from the first Forestry Plantation Project, the Bank Group
has extended ten other loans or credits totalling US$71.2 million to assist
Kenya's agricultural sector. These comprise a loan in 1964 of US$2.6 million
to assist the Kenya settlement program, and two credits in 1967 and 1972 to
support an agricultural credit program for financing on-farm development.
The livestock industry has been assisted by two credits for ranch development,
meat processing and the development of infrastructure. In addition two credits
were extended for the development of smallholder tea production and a loan for
the rehabilitation of group farms was approved in March 1975. In general all
projects have been well executed, although there were substantial delays in
1/   Formerly known as Broderick Falls.



-2-
the first agricultural credit and the first livestock projects due to insti-
tutional problems. IFC has assisted Panafrican Paper Mills to the extent of
US$17.6 million for the establishment of the Webuye mill which is about to
come on stream.
1.04      The Project was prepared by Government with assistance from tki±e
IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program. This report is based on findings of an IBRD
appraisal mission which visited Kenya in September/October 1974 chomposed of
Messrs. L. Ljungman and W. Stolber and Mrs. Y. Kimaro (IBRD), and Messrs.
P. Brinck, S. Draper and P. H. Enckell (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Kenya has a total area of 583,000 km2 and is a country of striking
topographical and climatic variety. The population is estimated at 12.9 mil-
lion (mid-19/4) and is growing at a rate of about 3.3% per year. About 90%
of the population lives in rural areas and is dependent on agriculture for
its livelihood. The average annual per capita income of those living in
rural areas is estimated at K Sh 480 (US$70), and the countrywide average
at K Sh 1,290 (US$180).
2.02      The agricultural sector is of great importance to the economy, and
is currently contributing between 30% and 35% of GDP. The agricultural rate
of growth in the monetary sector in the period 1969-1973 has averaged about
6% annually in real terms, which although lower than growth in other sectors
in Kenya, is high compared with agriculture growth rates in many other
developing countries. Agriculture accounts for about 45% of total export
earnings, increasing from K Sh 800 million to K Sh 1,560 million in the
period 1969-1973. The main export crops are coffee and tea, which account
for about 64% of all agricultural exports; the remainder includes sisal,
pyrethrum, dairy products, meat, cotton, wool, nuts and animal feed. Forestry
contributed about 2% of GDP, and forest products valued at about K Sh 44
million (US$6 million) represented less than 5% of total exports in 1973.
Kenya renTains, however, an importer of forest-based products (mainly paper
and paper-board products), the total value of which was about K Sh 220 million
(US$30 million) in 1973.
2.03      Kenya has for some years been carrying out an extensiv". forest
development program essentially designed to meet an increasing domestic de-
mand for forest-based products-with resulting foreign exchange savings, but
also with a view to taking advantage of the expanding export opportunities,
particularly in the Middle East and Europe.



-3-
B.  Forest Resources and Industries
Forest Resources (Annex 1)
2,04      Kenva's forests cover about 2.5 million ha, about 4% of the cofatiTy's
total area, but 16% of the land area receiving more than 850 mt of ra,i'Ial
anna ally (see NiAP IBRD 11437). The forests, ,,7hich are almost entirely
State-cwned, can be divided i..to indigenois forests, exotic softwood ard
hard,,w7cod plentations.  Over the vast fifty years the i. digenous I;orest. has
been continualAly exploited for the production of sawn tinimber and ottier forest
products.  As a result, the -mrin econo)ically accessible reserves of (o.s3arCr-
sially valuable species have b;ee  considerably dimiinihed and the pot?  ial
for exploitable timber has been reduced (to about 150,000 id a yea.r fGr the
next 20 years).  As the natural regeneration of indigenous forest species
takes 60-100 years to produce timber of usable size, the Governmaent has ovrer
the last 30 years been replacing somTe of these forests with faster-growing
exotic softwood plantations; by 1974 a total of abouat 120,000 ha of .nds-
trial plantations had been established.  The Covernment is al4o enraged in
sutporting rural afforestation schemes on both private Farm laad an-1 on land
o wned by County Councils, usually hilltops and marginal agric t2ltural tand.
These schemes are designed to promote the production of buildlag poles and
fuel wood and primarily invzolve making seedlings available to far1d:s ,t
subsidized rates.
2.05      Apart from their tiaber production potential, the indigenous forests
have a number of other indirect functions, among the most important of which
is the protection of water catchment areas. These forests are valuable tools
in the preservation of the fragile ecological balance between competing land
uses, as major changes in established land use patterns can have widespread
consequences.  In particular, the remova'l of the protective forest cover re-
dtices soil water retention capability; this in turn increases run-off and
exacerbates eresion problems and reduces the regular flow of rivers which supply
agriculture areas down stream.  However, given the generally high agricultural
potential of these forests and in view of the increasing competition for land
in areas with population pressure (particularly in the highlands), large areas
of natural forests have in recent years been taken over for smallholder settle-
ment. During the last five years, net gazetted excisions of land for agri-
cultural settlement have totalled some 30,000 ha, and another 20,000 ha have
been set aside for national park development. In addition, substantial
spontaneous illegal settlement has taken place in many areas. In several
instances, the removal of the forest cover followed by uncontrolled grazing
and cropping has already caused soil erosion problems and deterioration of
reliable water supplies; if this trend is continued, an already serious
problem will become increasingly critical. As the pressure on existing
agricultural land can be expected to become even more intense in the future,
forest land will appear increasingly attractive to hard-pressed farmers, and
it is therefore essential that some viable accommodation is worked out be-
tween these two competing interests.



- A.
2.06      Ev-en in areas of 'lower land pressure the unplanned exploitation of
indigenous forests has presented problems. There are about 100,000 ha of
gazetted forests in Kenya's coastal region, much of which has been used as a
source of wood for rapidly Expanding charcoal exports.  The increasing demand
for wood has resulted in the substantital removal of indigenous bush. and
this in turn led to considerable soil. erosion. By 1970 soil erosion snd
other adverse environmental effects had become so critical that the C.'overnmenL
introduced a strict embargo on the clear felling of these forests, -hereby
preventing further deterioration. Although the Government's action has resulted
in sharply curtailed charcoal exports, the orderly exploitation of natural
forests combined with a plantation reestablishment program could provide a
sound basis for the development of a profitable charcoal industry. Over the
past few years, the Forest Department has been conducting a small-scale
experimental program to determine whether such a plantation program would be
feasible, and initial results have been encouraging.
Forest Industries (Annex 2)
2.07      There are about 180 sawnmills in Kenya of which some 65 are opera-
ting under long-term Government licenses. Most are small tractor or diesel
powered operations (only 5 have an annual capacity of over 3,000 m3(s) - cubic
meters of sawn timber) designed primarly to provide sawn timber for the grow-
ing rural market, are handicapped by inefficient operations, and produc>< a
low quality product which is not suitable for export. Total output has avera--
ged about 100,000 m3(s) (the equivalent of 300,000 m3(ub)) annually over the
last three years, about 10% of which was exported. Imports of sawn lumber in
1973 were insignificant. To meet projected demand, by 1980 millinj production.
capacity would have to be increased to 210,000 m3(s), or 610,000 m§(ub)
equivalent; this could be achieved without major increase in new capacity
but with significant improvements in the efficiency of existing mills. As
the availability of sawlogs is not at present a limiting factor, it is essen-
tial that Kenya both improve the efficiency of existing mills and over the
longer term increase its sawmnilling capacity. The Finnish Government has
recently extended US$1.5 million to Kenya for the purchase of sawmilling
equipment.  Over the past few years the Government has made available tech-
nical staff from the Forest Department to assist the mills in identifying
bottlenecks and improving their efficiency, but only a limited impact has
been made thus far. It has also in some cases designed its industrial plan-
tations in blocks of at least 4,000 ha to encourage the construction of
larger, more efficient mills turning out a higher quality product (principally
for export), but this also has failed to produce the additional required
capacity. The Project would thus provide further technical assistance to
increase the efficiency of sawmilling and Government would prepare with the
assistance of consultants a plan for the further development of this industry
(para 4.21).
2.08      In addition to the sawmills there are also a number of mills pro-
ducing plywood for use in the manufacture of tea chests, furniture and
building materials. Two mills, one at Elburgon and one at Elgeyo, together
produced about 1 million m2 of-plywood in 1972. A third mill with a capacity



5
of 1.5 million in2 has been constructed at Eldoret, and mills are planned in
the Mount Kenya area and the Masai Mau forest. In addition the newly constructed
pulp and paper mrill at Weauye which has come on stream. will eventually be
one ot the country's largest industrial enterprises, and will produce both
bleached and industrial grades of paper and paperboard for the domestic
market.  The mill >as a capacity of 54,000 Air Dried Metric Tons per annum,
(AMffA  and its expansloA to  °20,000 tons by the mid 1980s is being discussed.
The mill will require about 300,000 m3(ub) of pulpwood a year at full operation
at present capacityt eqmiva.lent to the output of about 24,000 ha of plantations;
this would need to be i-acreased to some 50,000 ha of plantations to meet such
an irncrease in the mi'lls capacity.  The pruposed Project would complete the
required planLation requireement for the initial capacity.  If during the
zourse of the Pro-ect it was decided to proceed with the expansion of the
pullpinll   conlsiderat?n could boe given to switching part of the Project
planting program from sailog to additional pulpwood production (para 6.01).
2.09      Kenya p':esently markets its forest products in some 10 countries;
about 25% of the exsort volume is sold in Tanzania and Uganda and the balance
overseas.  Both Ugu,nda a-rd Tanzania are in the process of establishing indus-
trial plantations witb rhe eventual objective of becoming self-sufficient in
lumber.  Trade wuth thtaoe two countries is therefore likely to decrease in
future and Kenya Twill  ;ed to give more attention to other promising export
markets ii the Middle >St and Europe.
C. Government Forest Services
.10i      The iana,eat of Kenya's forests is the responsibility of the
Forest Department within the Ministry cf Natural Resources. For adminis-
trative purposes the Departmenit is divided into 5 field conservancies for
the adhinistration of the industrial plantation program (which represent about
80% of the Department's total g.rcss expenditures) and a number of special
conservancies for such activities as research, training, industrial development,
construction of forest roads etc. (Chart IBRD 9699).  The number of admini-
strative and technical staff in the industrial plantation areas is high com-
ra::-ed with other East African countries, although this is partly explained
bv theIr additional responsibilit.es for the management of the indigenous
protected forests and extension work in adjacent farming areas.  Nevertheless,
measures need to be taken to reduce overhead expenditures. Government also
employs x total of some 8,000 resident workmen, most of whom work for nine
months in a year and spend the remaining three months cultivating their plots
of food crops (Annex 3). The Department is under increasing pressure to
provide full-time employment for these workers, but it is estimated that only
6,000 would be needed to maintain the projected level of forestry operations
during the next few years; and that this number would further decline once
the major plantation areas have been established. Some means must therefore
be found to assure alternative employment for these surplus forestry workers
(para 5.01).



-6-
2011      The Government operates a Forest Industrial Training Center (FITC)
at Nakuru which offers trai-ing in logging, mill engineering, sawmill manage-
,-nnt etc.  Students are sponsored by the sawmill operators.  In conjunction
with the center, Government owins and operates one of the five largest saw-
nalls in the country which is now used primarily for training purposes.  Due
to the size of the mill and the sophistication of its equipment, however, the
m,ll is not suitable for tra'ning the operators of the smaller mills, Mlore-
o-.r, since the smaller mi: i'S are the major source of supply for the grcwtnig
rural market, and in view of their potential contribution to the count-y's
exrort of softwood lumber, there is need for a training program more -:10;ely
geared to their needs (para 4.21).
III.  FIRST PHASE FOREST PLANTATION PROJECT
3.01      Kenya's present long-term industrial forestry program aims at the
establishment by 1980 of about 136,000 ha of sawlog plantations and 24,000 ha
of pulpwood plantations. To date approximately 104,000 ha of sawlog plantations
and 16,500 ha of pulpwood plantations have been established under the program.
In 1969 the Bank made a loan of US$2.6 million to finance part of the cost of
a forest plantation project (the first phase project). The project aimed at
planting a total of 28,000 ha over six years (1970-75), comprising about 19,000
ha of sawlog plantations and 9,000 ha of pulpwood plantations; this project
f.s now nearing completion.
3,02      The first phase project was expected to produce about 1.3 million
m03(ub) of sawlogs annually during the period 1994-2000 and about 0.4 million
-(3ub) of pulpwood annually during the period 1984-1990.  The sawlogs would
be nAsed mainly for production. of lumber for both domestic and export markets
--.lA-ile the pulpNood would be consumed by the newly constructed integrated pulp
and paper mill at Webuye.
3.03      T:he first phase project was located within four main administrative
divisions west of the Rift Valley, which account for about 75% of the Govern-
ment's long-term industrial forestry program,  The pulpwood plantations have
been concentrated mainly in the Turbo area some 20 miles to the east of Webuye
pulp mill site. The species raised have been cypress (Cupressus lusitanica)
and pine (Pinus patula). The project has been implemented by a specially
created division of the Government's Forest Department at Eldoret in West
Kenya.
3.04      In general, the project has been carried out satisfactorily.  In
the early years difficulties were experienced in land acquisition, necessita-
ting the relocation of some plantation development, and in the establishment
of pulpwood in the Turbo area due mainly to soil deficiencies. During the
last two years the latter problem has been overcome through the employment of
a specialized silvicultural team and by the completion of detailed soil
surveys for the pulpwood planting areas. The early planting failures resulted
in higher than expected replanting requirements which contributed to cost



-verruns; the other princ4ple factor in the overrunas 7as t1he nincreoqed Costs
of -equipmlent.  It Js estimated that project costs ff?r estabilin.rg 2,0.00 h-I
of plantations5  would now exceed oriiinal esti-mates by about 20%.  it i.S no,V
llikely that only 25,000 ha will have been planted by the end of t he  97;
planting season (June) and that the balance would be ineluded mn toie platkLg
to be carried out under the proposed project.  Trhe  IBRD loan is expected tf
be fully disbursed by April 1975, sosile eight mortths ah ead of appraisal e.mate
and Government has agreed to meet the balance of the 1974-1975 piantini' -½po-t- m
from its own resources.
3.05      The first phase project Included a market study of the futu
spects for Kenya's sawlog and pulpwood production.  This study  -or-.c          hat
there exists increasingly favorable don.estic and  x.;port mark'et prospecee.-  r
sawn lumber, thLe Middic East and Euirope beiag the most prom.isirg nrospc-Gtive
outlets. Kernya's internal dem.and for paper and paper products will oclv be
partly satisfied by the Webuye mill which wgill fuilly absorb the total puiloo
output.
3.06      In addition to these quantifiable benefits :he project 'has made
an imaportant contribution to institution building, ii:cluding the scr?ngir-ening
of forest management during a period wjhen the Forest Dcpartment staff ..as
undergoing a rapid localization program.  The operations of the separate pro-
ject unit did however cause some administrative difficultAe.s and has led to
the proposal that a follow-up project should comprise the whole in-dustrial
plantation program.  In addition, the first phase project by providinlg for
periodic increases in sawlog stumpage rates, recognized the need to brin4g
local prices into line with equivalent imported lumber prices, even L'aough a
significant gap still remains (para 7.02). Finally the proj ect establishled a
cost analysis and budgetary control systemx which has provided data for "he
preparation of the proposed second phase project and a basis for improving
the efficiency of forestry operations throughout Kenya.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The Project would, over six years, continue and expand the first
phase project to include the total industrial plantation program of the For-
est Department to provide raw material for sawmills and the pulp and paper
industry. The Project would complete the Government's target long-term
planting program of 136,000 ha of sawlog and 24,000 ha of pulpwood planta-
tions by 1980. It would also include the further development (weeding,
pruning and thinning) of plantations already established. Specifically the
Project would include:
(a) afforestation of 32,000 ha for sawlogs, 8,000 ha for
pulpwood and the reforestation of 6,000 ha of clearfelled
plantations, mainly for sawlog products;



8-
(b)  further development of 120,000 ha of existing plantations;
(c)  construction, up-grading, and maintenance of
forest roads;
(d)  construction of staff housing and administration
buildings;
(e)  studies, technical assistance, and training.
B. Detailed Features (Annex 3)
Afforestation and Reforestation
4.02      The plantation program would include establishment of nurseries,
land clearing, land preparation, planting and weeding.
4.03      Nurseries.  The planting program would require about 16 million
plants per year. These would be raised in some 90 existing nurseries and 16
new nurserice to be established during the Project period.
4.04      Land Clearing and Preparation.  All of the sawlog planting program
and about 90% of the pulpwood planting program would take place in already
exploited indigenous forest areas to be cleared using the traditional
"shamba" 1/ system. Under this system, forestry workers grow foodcrops in
the proposed afforestation areas for a period of five years (including three
years in which crops are interplanted with the young trees) following removal
of the indigenous forest cover. Provision has been included for the cost of
clearing large trees which such labor cannot remove as part of its agricul-
tural cropping operations.
4.05      The area to be cleared includes 10% above actual planting area
requirements, to allow for firebreaks and roads. The 1,400 ha of pulpwood
plantations to be established at Turbo would be on land cleared and agricul-
turally cropped by the East African Tanning and Extract Company which has a
contract with Government to pre-crop this area with maize prior to tree plant-
ing.
4.06      Planting.  Sawlog planting stock will be raised partly as naked
rooted stock and partly in polythene tubes or in boxes, depending on the micro-
climate of the area to be planted. The planting spacing would be 2.5 x 2.5 m
for sawlog crops and 2.7 x 2.0 m for pulpwood crops. Annual surveys would be
carried out on all new plantations.
4.07      The main species to be planted would continue to be pines and cypress
for sawlogs. Planting would be done manually. Past experience indicates that
1/   Swahili word meaning field or garden.



a cailure rate of a½c 0 fl% _oan be expected and replanting would be carried
Ol-t eithier in the soe or the next planting year.
4+.08     Weedian. In 57tawl0o  areas, the entire planted area would be weeded
ouee in th-e 6i1rd ye-ar after forest workers have ceased their agricultural
cropping; pasL t-perience has shown this to be necessary in order to remove
creepers and otlher mjacr w,eds , In the pulpwood areas, three hand-weedings
would be requ-irel if fi 6irsr, second and third years of establishment.  In
the Turbo area, nTo -;.echlc;,,! weedings are provided for in the second year
and one in the thlrd vear of esktablishme-nt.
Further DoeveL lopm-cn  of !istiag Plantations
4 .0-     Further do - t3f about 120,000 ha of plantations already
established <. ni lae Project plantations of 46,000 ha would include pruning,
thinnling, fire   nd-t,l- and other services.
4.10     Prunl      A 11 sawlog crops would be pruned to an eventual top height
of about 14 m.  This would be done in five operations with an average annual
pruning program of 25,000 ha a year.  No pruning operations would be required
for the pulpwood crcps.
4.11      Thinning.  A11. savalog crops would be thinned in accordance with
present schedules.       f-rst thinning operation would not yield commercial
timber ani would be a  to5ect cost. Subsequent thinning would be carried out
iv sawrailling comparJes as part oar their logging operations.  The average
SawVOg thinning pragram; 'oald be about 4,100 ha a year.  No thinning of pulp-
wood crops w7ould be nece'ssary.
4A12      Fire Control.  Experience has shown that in the sawlog areas early
burning in firebreaks is the most effective form of fire control.  Firebreaks
of 20 m width around p1antations would be burnt early once a year.  Their
density would be about 20 m per na. In the pulpwood areas, early burning
would also be carried out in all areas except Turbo, where provision has been
included for mechanical firebrea- maintenance by a rotary harrow towed by a
90 hp tractor.
4.13      Otber Services.  Inspection teams would make regular checks to
identify and control insect or fungal attacks in the plantations.
Forest Roads
4.14      About 160 km of all-weather forest roads and plantation access
tracks would be constructed each year during the Project period to standards
similar to those used in the first phase project and an additibnal 20 km of
service roads would be upgraded each year. The road density would average
45 minha; experience shows this to be adequate both for access and fire pro-
tection. The road construction would be carried out by force account by the
road section of the Forest Department using mainly bulldozers and graders.
Road maintenance would be the responsibility of the main Forest Divisions.
Logging roads are not included under the Project, as these would be construc-
ted by the concessionaires.



- 10 -
Prpect Management (Annex 4)
4.15      Administration.  The Project would include all direct and indirect
administrative overhead expenses in support of the industrial plantation pro-
gram and related activities such as forestry protection. The Project's staf-
fing would comprise 36 professionals, 106 foresters, 165 rangers, 164 clerks,
184 drivers, and 660 forest guards. Provision would be included for the run-
ning cost of administrative vehicles.
4.16      Buildings and Housing.  To carry out the Project, it would be neces-
sary to construct one new division HQ, 4 new stations (Annex 3, Table 4), and
12 new sub-stations. The housing of some 1,300 forest labor would be improved
and some 2,000 new houses constructed at the new stations and sub-stations
making a total housing program of some 3,300 units. As appropriate standards
have not been established, the Project would include provisior for a study of
building standards and construction techniques for low cost housing.
4.17      The Project would require investment in equipment for several dif-
ferent Project activities including afforestation, road building, administra-
tion, building, and housing. Equipment would include bulldozers, loaders,
graders, rollers, lorries, tractors, salon cars, water pumps, and various
other equipment. Details are given in Annex 3, Table 5.
Studies and Technical Assistance
4A18      Land Use Study.  Kenya's forests continue to be a target for compet-
ing interests. On the one hand, the failure to maintain an adequate forest
Cover will seriously threaten the maintenance of the country's water resources
and worsen soil erosion problems which have already reached serious propor-
tions in some areas. On the other hand there exists considerable pressure
to release forest land for settlement and other purposes and for which some
accommodation is probably inevitable. In the past, however, forest excisions
have been decided on an ad hoc basis without proper knowledge of, or concern
for the ecological cost.
4.19      In this situation, two measures are urgently required.  First, the
establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Land Use Committee which, served by a
small secretariat, could, at the highest level, systematically adjudicate
between conflicting demands on the basis of expert advice. Proposals for the
establishment of the Land Use Committee, its composition and functions are
discussed in para 5.04. Second, there is a need to provide Kenya and specifi-
cally the Land Use Committee with expert advice on which to determine the
future of the forest areas. More particularly it is also necessary to clearly
identify those forests which are critical to retain for reasons of water catch-
ment, the preservation of flora or fauna etc; areas where limited forest
excisions might be made at least cost to ecosystems; and other areas where
new forests should be developed for ecological or other reasons.



- 11 -
4.20      The Project would therefore provide for a study of public land suit-
able for forestry.  A total of 5 man-years of staff time would be provided and
staff to be recruited would include a land use planning economist, a forest
specialist, an agronomist, a hydrologist and an ecologist. Funds wouvld also
be provided for training skills to interpret data from the Earth Resource
Technology Satelite (ERTS) for classifying land-use categories and recording
changes in land use patterns. During negotiations it was agreed that Govern-
ment would prepare detailed terms of reference for the study and propose
candidates acceptable to IBRD within six months of credit and loan effoctive-
ness, and that the study would be started within one year of effectiveless.
Outline suggested terms of reference are shown in Annex 1, Appendix 2.
4.21      Sawmill Sector Improvements.  In order to improve the efficiency and
production of the country's sawmills the Project would include the provision
of technical assistance comprising three sawmill advisers for three years and
the establishment and operation of a small-scale sawmill training center.
Terms of reference for the technicai assistance (outlined in Annex 2, Appendix
1) and for the proposed consultants, each of which would be acceptable to
Bank/IDA, would be prepared within six months of Loan/Credit effectiveness.
With a view to increasing sawmilling capacity, Government would prepare by
December 31, 1976 a detailed plan for the expansion of the industry, and for
this purpose, the Project would include funds for short-term consultancies.
4.22      Coastal Trial Plantations.  The Afabuko-Sukoke and the Bone-Lungi
areas of the Coast Province have the potential for considerable forestry
plantation development. The former with a forest reserve of about 40,000 ha
is surrounded by 75,000 ha of council forest land which would be suitable for
reforestation of pulpwood while the Bone-Lungi forests offer potential for
sawlog plantations to provide wood for regional use. Trials would provide a
basis for an evaluation of forest potential in these semi-arid areas for
productive and rehabilitation purposes. The Project would therefore include
provision for an annual 40 ha trial program in each of these areas.
Ecology
4.23      During Project appraisal, the Bank was advised by two ecologists
who with other members of the mission held discussions with interest groups
concerned with nature preservation in order that the Project's environmental
impact should be carefully assessed and, where necessary, protective measures
taken.
4.24      In general, the Kenya Government's program for forestry development
is considered acceptable with regard to environmental considerations. The
current system of plantation development and the possible impact of fast grow-
ing plantations on the hydrological balance in forest areas has been studied
over a period of 15 years by East African Agriculture and Forestry Research
Organization (EAAFRO), and there is sufficient scientific evidence to confirm
that there is no adverse impact on the water regime by changing from one form
of forest crop (indigenous forest) to another (fast growing plantations). It
has also been demonstrated that forest plantations are easier to guard against



- 12 
illegal squatting and s.erve as effective buffer zornes between settled areas
and areas set aside for protection forestry or National and Forest Reserves.
Furthermore when the Covernment's  ong-term plantation program ils fully imple-
m.ented, it would result in the replanting of only about 20% of the indigenous
forests gazetted as forest reserves, leaving some 1.5 million ha (or .bout 80%
of the total forest reserve area of 1.7 million ha) untouched by the piogram.
Approxiimately 40,000 ha of this area has already been set aside by th-. ½overn-
ment as Nature Reserves or National Parks.
4.25      Nevertheless particular caution needs to be taken in deciding which
indigenous forests should be converted into exotic plantations in order that
areas of unique flora regimes can be preserved. Accordingly assurances have
been received that within three months of Loan/Credit effectiveness the follow-
ing two areas would be set aside as nature reservres:
(a) an area of not less than 3,000 ha of the North Nandi
forest;
(b) an area of about 4,000 ha in the Arabuko-Sokoke forest.
It is considered that each of these areas would be large enough to sustain on
a viable basis their particular ecosystems. Furthermore, a study would be
undertaken which would determtne whether there is a need for additional nrture
reserves in. the Kvakamega forest reserve. This study should be completed not
later than June 1, 1978 and submitted to IBRD/IDA for review. During negotia-
tions the Government also agreed to use its best efforts in areas not directly
affected by the Project in gazetting as f,rest reserves the Huri Hills Forests,
the Karasuk Hills Forests and the riverine forests along the lower Tana River,
all dryland forests now being threatened by increased pressures on land.
4.26      During negotiations Government agreed to a general assuranes that
in carrying out the Project it: will pay due regard to all related environ-
mental aspects and specifically that it would ensure that the land clearance
and planting systems used would minimize erosion damage, wasteful utilization
of forest resources and adverse effects on fauna and flora. The ecologist
consultants have proposed measures designed to strengthen environmental
protection in the forest areas (Annex 1, Appendix 1) and these will be sent
to Government with the recommendation that they be followed.
C. Project Cost (Annex 5)
4.27      Total Project cost is estimated at K Sh 396.5 million (US$55.5
million). The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$12.9 million.



- 13 -
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign
---- (K Sh million)---  ----(US$ million)----  Exchange %
Afforestation            102.1    15.3   117.4  14.3       2.1    16.4         13
Forest Roads              10.8      7.9    18.7   1.5      1.1      2.6       42
Project Management
Administration          81.6      8.5    90.1  11.4      1.2    12.6         9
Building Housing        32.9      3.9    36.8   4.6      0.6      5.2        11
Equipment                  5.9    19.7    25.6   0.8       2.8      3.6        78
Studies and Technical
Assistance               6.1    11.1    17.2   0.9       1.5      2.4       63
Subtotal            239.4    66.5   305.9  33.5       9.3    42.8        22
Contingencies
Physical                 2.3      2.9     5.2   0.3      0.4      0.7       57
Price                   62.5    22.9    85.4   8.8       3.2    12.0        27
Subtotal             64.8    25.8    90.6   9.1       3.6    12.7        28
Total Project Cost       304.2    92.3   396.5  42.6    12.9    55.5           23
The base cost figures are estimated as of April 1975 and include taxes and
duties amounting to about K Sh 15 million. A physical contingency of 10% on
the cost of equipment, housing, buildings and road construction has been in-
cluded. Price escalations applied are outlined in Annex 5 and are equivalent
to 28% of baseline costs.
D. Financing
4.28      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amoumts and proportions:
US$ million          %
Bank                 10.0              18.0
IDA                  10.0              18.0
Government           35.5              64.0
55.5             100.0



- 4 -
The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million would be on standard terms to
Government and the proposed Bank l0oan of US$10.0 million would be for a period
of 25 years including a ten year grace period at 8-1/2% interest annually.
Together these would finance the foreign exchange cost of US$12.9 million
and about 17% of local costs (US$7.1 million) or about 36% of total Project
cost. Of the US$35.5 million equivalent remaining for Government to finance,
it is estimated that about US$18 million would be offset by revenues from
industrial plantation stumpage fees and about US$2 million would be realized
from taxes and duties (para 4.27), leaving a net balance of US$15.5 million
to be financed by Government.
E. Procurement
4.29      Procurement of equipment and vehicles (US$3.6 million) in orders
exceeding US$50,000 would be by international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever possible. In respect
of the procurement of bulk purchases, normal Bank/IDA procedures would be
followed; the borrower may however with prior Bank/IDA agreement include such
items in its bulk buying for other than Project purposes. Orders less than
US$50,000 would be obtained under Government procurement procedures which are
satisfactory. The infrastructure work and plantations would be executed by
the Forest Department under force account, as due to the nature of the work and
the fact that it would be scattered over a wide area, it would not be likely
to attract either local or international competitive bidding. Appropriate
assurances were received at negotiations.
F. Disbursement (Amnex 6)
4.30      Disbursements would be made first from the Credit account and second
from the Loan account on the follow4ng basis:
(a)  35% of both foreign and loca-  expenditures for civil works by
contractors and by force account, afforestation and Project
administration;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures, or 75% of local expenditures for
vehicles and equipment;
(c)  100% of foreign or 35% of local expenditures for consultancy,
studies and training.
Disbursements against (b) above and the foreign exchange items of (c) would
be fully documented.  Disbursements for local expendi tures under (a) and (c)
would be made a,ainst certificates of expenditures certified by the Project
Accountant and approved by the Mfinistry of Finance, the documientation of



- 15 -
which would not be submitted but would be retained by the borrower for review
during Project supervision. Any funds remaining in the Credit and Loan
account on completion of this Project would be used at the discretion of the
Bank/IDA.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.31      Records and accounts would be set up as developed under the first
phase project and maintained to reflect Project operations, resources and
expenditures; separate accounts would be kept for the Project. Project
accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank/IDA, and audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than
six months following the close of the financial year. Assurances that these
procedures would be followed were obtained at negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT (Annex 4)
5.01      The Project would be executed by the Forest Department.  Project
activities comprising the whole of the industrial plantation program would be
directed by a Project Manager (as one of the two Deputy Chief Conservators)
based in Nairobi who would report directly to the Chief Conservator. He would
be assisted by an Assistant Project Manager, a Project Accountant, and
supporting staff. The Project Manager would also be assisted for 2 years by
an internationally recruited Forest Economist whose tasks would include
investigations into the creation of new employment opportunities for forest
labor, the introduction of more efficient operating methods and overhead cost
reductions, and a review of future rural fuelwood demand and supply. Terms
of reference for the post are set out in Annex 4, Appendix 1.
5.02      Project work would be carried out in all 15 Divisions of the exist-
ing 5 conservancies (chart IBRD 9699). The Divisions contain 59 main account-
ing stations and 47 sub-stations listed in Annex 3, Table 4.
5.03      It is expected that the Project Manager and the Project Accountant
currently responsible for the first phase project would remain in post and their
appointments would be acceptable for the proposed Project. The Forest Economist
would be newly appointed and at negotiations it was agreed that Government
would consult with the Bank/IDA on the qualification and experience of the
proposed candidate and that a suitable person would be employed within three
months of Credit/Loan effectiveness. Government would also consult with the
Bank/IDA in nominating any replacements for the posts of Project Manager and
Project Accountant.
5.04      The Government has had under consideration for some time the estab-
lishment of a Land Use Committee to adjudicate between various competing land
claims. Under the Project this would be established as an Inter-ministerial



- 16 -
Committee comprising the Ministers of Finance and Economic Planning, Land and
Settlement, Agriculture, Tourism and Wildlife, Local Government, Water Develop-
went, and Natural Resources. The Committee would be supported by a small
land-use secretariat under the supervision of the Commissioner of Lands which
would formulate recommendations concerning land use for consideration by the
Committee. The Committee and the Secretariat would be established not later
than December 31, 1975.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES (Annex 7)
A. Yield and Production
6.01      Out of the 46,000 ha to be planted under the six-year Project, about
38,000 ha would provide sawlogs for the sawmilling industries and about 8,000
ha would provide pulpwood to help meet the raw material requirements of the
pulp and paper mill at Webuye due to come on stream in early 1975 with a pro-
duction capacity of 54,000 ADMTA. In the event of it being decided to expand
the mill's capacity during the Project, the program could be adjusted in favor
of increased pulpwood planting. During negotiations it was agreed that Govern-
ment would obtain the prior approval of the Bank/IDA to any such proposed
changes.
6.02      The main species to be planted would be cypress and pines (imainly
Pinus patula and Pinus elliotti). Sawlog crops will be grown on a 25 year
rotation and pulpwood crops on a 15 year rotation. On the basis of experience
from the first phase project, it is estimated that a mean annual increment
under bark (MAI ub) of about 17 m3/tha/year for sawlog and 13 m3/ha/year for
pulpwood would be achieved. This growth is in line with that of similar
plantations in other parts of East Africa. Additional commercial yields would
result from prunings and thinnings from the silvicultural development of the
120,000 ha of existing plantations.
6.03      Projected production has to be viewed against the total inventory
of Kenya's industrial forest plantations of which the Project provides a
time-slice.  In the case of sadlogs, the total annual availability is pro-
jected to increase from the present annual level of about 500,000 m&(ub)
to about 2.5 million m3(ub) annually from the year 2001. These estimates
include a 150,000 m3 availability from indigenous forests.  In the period
2001-6, Project plantings would provide about 2.r million m3(ub) of the total
estimated availability (80%) (Annex 7, Table 1).
6.04      The Project's pulpwood plantations would give an estimated annual
production of 300,000 m3(ub) during the period 1991-96.  This together -ith
the production of earlier established pulpwood p'lantations would meet .he
eontinuing annual requirements of the Webuye mill estimated at 300,000 m3 r
(ub) for the rated capacity of 54,000 ADMTA.



- 19 -
B. Economic Evaluation (Annex 9)
7.03      The establishment of 32,000 ha of new sawlog plantation and 8,000
ha of pulpwood plantations over a six year period, together with the further
development of about 120,000 ha of plantations already established, would
provide part of necessary raw material for the operations of the sawmilling
industry and the Webuye pulpmill. The economic justification for new sawlog
and pulpwood plantations has been calculated separately on a per hectare
basis. The economic viability of the further development of existing
plantations was tested by comparing the additional benefits stemming from
the silvicultural operations with the additional cost of weeding, pruning
and thinning. The primary economic benefits of the Project would be foreign
exchange savings resulting from reduced imports of paper, wood products and
sawntimber and foreign exchange earnings resulting from the increased ex-
ports of sawntimber.
7.04      In calculating the economic rate of return for sawlog and pulpwood
production, import parity prices for wood at the point of conversion have been
used. With foreign exchange costs and benefits shadow priced at 130% (to
reflect more accurately the value of foreign exchange to Kenya) the economic
rate of return of the sawlog plantations over 25 years would be 18% and that
of pulpwood plantations over 15 years, 25%. These calculations also assume a
75% shadow rating of labor in view of the significant underemployment in the
forests and adjacent areas. Without the shadow pricing of foreign exchange,
these rates of return would drop to 17% and 22% respectively. The shadow
pricing of labor results in a difference of about one percentage point. The
economic rates of return on the silvicultural operations of weeding, pruning,
and thinning of existing plantations would range from 22% to 102% (Annex 9).
7.05      The main risks facing the Project could be lower than estimated
yields from the plantations and a shortfall in the provision of milling
capacity required for the conversion of sawlogs. The first situation would
result in the need for a larger plantation area to meet the needs of the pulp
and sawmilling industries. The second could result in the underutilization
of forest resources or a switch in exports from sawntimber to sawlogs or
woodchips. Management and technical aspects are not considered a significant
risk in view of Kenya's long and successful experience in forest plantation
development. As the Webuye mill has already been established, a ready market
outlet exists for pulpwood crops and there are good prospects for the domestic
and export sales of sawlog products.
7.06      Sensitivity tests under various assumptions have shown that the
economic internal rate of return for sawnwood and pulpwood is relatively
insensitive to change in costs and benefits. With a 10% increase in costs
the rate of return for sawn wood would be about 18%, and with a 10% reduction
in benefits the rate would be also about 17%. A combination of both would
give a return of 17% for sawn wood. Pulpwood plantations would yield a rate
of return of about 24% with an increase in cost of 10% and about 24% with a
comparable reduction in benefits. A combination of both would give a rate
of return of about 23% for pulpwood.



- 20 -
7.07      Under the Project benefits would be widely distributed among those
to be employed directly under the plantation program (who would fall with
the lower rural income brackets) and related processing industries as weul
as among the both rural and urban users of the final product. The Project
would provide continued employment of about 4,750 persons over six years,
although this would fall slightly to about 4,500 person from 1981 onwards
when the main planting program would have been completed. This decrease is
expected to be offset by secondary employment opportunities arising from
expanding processing industries (e.g. logging, sawmilling and pulp and
furniture factories). The socio-economic study included under the Project
would also address the need to find increased employment opportunities for
those currently involved in forest plantation development. Gross foreign
exchange savings resulting from the import substitution and export earnings
(in terms of sawlogs) from the new plantations established under the Project
would total about US$150 million equivalent over the life of the Project.
7.08      The Project's probable ecological and environmental effects are
discussed in detail in Annex 1.  While any forest development will inevitably
result in some disturbance of the ecosystems where indigenous forest is
replaced by plantations, such effects would be relatively small and temporary
and, taking an overall view should be more than offset by the positive
advantages which the Project should bestow. These are in particular, the
maintenance of forest cover with benefits to water catchment areas, the legal
machinery to systematical-ly resolve land use conflicts in the forest areas,
the advice which Kenya would receive from the proposed land use study and the
greater protection which industrial plantations provide from human settlement.
VIII.  AGREMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.0i      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  Within six months of Credit/Loan effectiveness the Government would
prepare detailed terms of reference and propose candidates accep-
able to Bank/IDB. for carrying out a study of public land suitable
for forestry and that such a study would be started within one year
of effectiveness (para 4.20);
(b)  Government would carry out the Project with due regard to related
environmental aspects and specifically that St would ensure the
land clearance and planting systems used would minimize erosion
damage, the wasteful utilization of forest resources, and adverse
effects on fauna and flora (para. 4.26), and would gazette certain
areas as nature reserves within three months of Credit/Loan effective-
ness (para 4.25);



- 21 -
(c) The establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Land Use Committee
supported by a small land-use secretariat to be established not
later than December 31, 1975 (para 5.04);
(d) Government would increase stumpage rates for sawlogs on average
by 10' annually in real terms to bring them, in any event, to
KSh 50/m3 at 1975 prices by December 31, 1981 and Government's
making proposals on stumpage rates which, taking a long-term
view, would enable the industrial forest plantations to become
self-supporting financially (para 7.02);
(e) Consultation between the Government and Bank/IDA on the qualifica-
tion and experience of key personnel (para 5.03);
(f) Basic requirements for the technical assistance and expansion
program for the sawmilling industry (para 4.21).
8.02      Subject to the above assurances and condition, the Project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$10.0 million and an IDA Credit of US$10.0 million.






17 -
B. MIarkets and Prices
6.05      A iarketing study carried out as part of the first phase project
indicates a steady growth in domestic demand increasing from sawntimber sales
of 100,000 m3(s) in 1973 to 210,000 m3(s) in 1980 and 640,000 m3(S) in 2000:
on the present conversion of ratio of 35% these are equivalent to sawlog
dernand of 280,000 m3(ub) in 1973, 610,000 m3(ub) in 1980 and 1.8 million m3(ub)
in the year 2000. By the turn of the century therefore when Project planta-
tions for sawlogs would be available for harvesting, domestic demand would
represent about 75% of the total availability of 2.5 million m3(ub) (para
6.03 above) leaving 700500 million m3(ub) equivalent available for export.
An iLprovement in the conversion factor which should be achievable and aimed
for through improved sawmilling efficiency might increase the export avail-
ability to about 1.1 million m (ub).
6.06      In recent years Kenya has exported about 10% of its sawntimber pro-
duction (12,000 m3 in 1973). The market study indicated that export possi-
bilities should increase significantly in the next 25 years. In particular
Middle East demand is estimated at 3-4 million m3 (ub) equivalent by 2000:
Kenya's potential export availability by that year would represent only 20-30%
of that demand which given its favorable geographical location, the country
should be capable of supplying.
6.07      In order to meet the potential demand of domestic and export mar-
kets, it will be necessary to increase both the efficiency of existing saw-
mills and increase,its capacity to enable production increases by about 10%
annually. The Project would thus provide for technical assistance to help
increase operating efficiency (para 4.21) and Government would prepare plans
for the future expansion of the industry (para 4.21). If in addition the
quality of sawntimber products could be improved, Kenya would also have the
opportunity of significant expansion of exports to Europe.
6.08      At full production, expected in 1976, the Webuye mill would produce
54,000 ADMTA.  This compares with Kenya's actual pulp import equivalent amount-
ing to 74,000 m tons in 1973 and demand which is projected to increase to
110,000 m tons by 1980 and to 435,000 m tons by the year 2000. It is there-
fore expected that the whole of the proposed Project's pulpwood production
would be consumed domestically.
6.09      Prices.  Sawn timber prices in Kenya are lower than those in most
other African countries and substantially lower than the price of imported
timber. While sawn timber of Kenyan origin is sold in the domestic market
at about US$55 per m3 equivalent, imported timber of comparable quality would
cost as much as US$165 per m3. However, stumpage rates in Kenya are at
present very low and need to be increased (para 7.02).
6.10      The prices of pulp and paper products in Kenya are somewhat higher
than world market prices, reflecting the price penalty for small quantity
orders (for imports) which countries with small populations are generally



- 18 -
cslled upon to pay.  The Webuiye mill would obtain its wood requirements from
the surrounding plantations at a price established by a wood contract between
the -mill and the Government. The contract stipulates an initial price of
K Sh 7 (US$1) per m3 (ub) rising to K Sh 14 (US$2) in years 8-10 (para 7.02).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
A. Financial Evaluation (Annex 8)
7,01      The costs of plantations established by Government would be re-
covered by royalties charged to private concessionaries when harvesting the
plantations. Concession agreements issued by the Forest Depaitme-t stipulate
the quantities of usable timber which can be extracted from the concession
area, and the Forest Departmenit charges a royalty (stumpage) for each cubic
meter of wood rem,oved from the forest by the logging operation.  The stumpage
rates for plantation sawlog sales in 1974/75 range from K Sh 17 per/m3 (US$2.5)
for thinning up to K Sh 42/m3(US$6) for clearfelling. Each year, the Depart-
ment reviews the stumpage rate for each species and size of logs. During the
first phase project stumpage rates were increased by 10% a year compounded.
This increase barely matches the present annual inflation rate.
7.02      As an essentially commercial activity, Kenya's inventory of indus-
L forest plantations, once fully developed, could be financially self-
sstaining and the cost of maintenance and (after clearfelling) replanting
.-e from incone realized f'rom the sales of standing timber. To achieve this,
-o-5;ever  it would be necessary to increase the level of stumpag   ees which
at present average about K Sh 25/m3 for sawlogs and K Sh 7/mi for pulpwood.
As a flrst step towards this objective it was agreed at negotiations that
t.Jrnment would increase stimpage fees for saTwlogs on the average by 10%
annually In real ters s.  The Government has further agreed that, in any event,
the average stumpage rate by 1981 would be K Sh 50/m3 at 1975 prices.  At
Chis level, however, only about 50% of the cost of actual plantings and mainte-
rance (at a discount rate of 10%) would be recovered 1,/ over the assets life
arid somewhat less of the maintenance and replacement costs of the total indus-
trial plantations program. Accordingly, it was also agreed at negotiations
that Government would estimate stumpage rates which, taking a long-term view,
would enable the industrial forest plantations to become financially self-
supporting on a commercial basis, and would inform Bank/IDA of such proposals
and the date by which the rate would be fully effective. With regard to
pulpwood stumpage fees, the rates are fixed under a long-term contract which
expires in 1985. It was agreed at negotiations that Government would estimate
stumpage rates which would recover costs on a commercial basis and which would
be introduced when this becomes possible.
1/   At a discount rate of 5%, the cost would be fully recovered at the time
of clearfalling.



ANNEX1
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Forest Development Stratey
Forest Resources
1.        Of the total land area of Kenya approximately 2.5 million ha ray
be classified as forests of which about 1.7 million ha are classified as
Forest Reserves (1.6 million ha so far gazetted). About 1.1 million ha of
the forst area are closed forests, of which 800,000 are classified as pro-
ductive. The gazetted forests include around 120,000 ha of plantation forests
and 94,000 of Nature Reserves. Except for about 125,000 ha which is privately
owned forest, the forests of Kenya are publicly owned by the Goverr-,ent (53%)
or the County Councils (47%).
Indigenous Forests
2.        Forest Reserves cover about 4% of the country's total land area
but about 16% of the more densely populated area receiving more than 850 mm
of rainfall annually. Over the last 50 years, these forests have been con-
tinually exploited for the production of sawn lumber and, more recently,
for the plywood industry. The main economically accessible reserves of
commercially valuable species (Podocarpus gracilior, Podocarpus milanjianus,
Junp2erus procera, Ocotea spp., Olea spp.), have been cut out.  Some areas
such as Mount Kenya and Masai Mau still have significant quantities of
merchantable timber. The indigenous forests are estimated to have a potential
production of 150,000 m3 a year for the next 20 years. Apart from their
timber production potential, the indigenous forests have a number of other
benefits, including provision of dry weather grazing, protection of water
catclhment areas, and the generation of revenues from recreation, hunting and
tourist game-viewing lodges.
Exotic Softwood Plantations
3.        The indigenous forests are slow-growing and take between 60 and 100
years to produce timber of usable size. Because of this the Government over
the last 30 years has been replacing these slow-growing forests with faster-
growing exotic plantation species such as Cupressus lusitanica, Pinus radiata
and Pinus patula. Up to 1974, a total of about 120,000 ha of irndustrial
plantations had been established. 1/
1/   The plantations tij date have  usually been established by the `shan-ba"
system -- forest ;:,rkers grow maize, potatoes, or o.her crops fcsr twO
or three years on the indigenous forest larnd, and  rees Gre thei- planted.



A2ANZEX 1
Page 2
4,        Of this, ab'out 16!,500a z have been ser asidie as pulpwacood pPlantations
to supply a pulp and paper m-ill under cornstruction at Web uye (sea boLowl)  The
balarnce is bheing managed for .he Prod-uction of sawlogs for se-iii-timber use
and peeler logs for tbhe p1 y;ood in½dust-i-y,  The pu' pwood plantations are l,eing
established in the Turbo region wifthin a 40 milie radius of the Webuye  !p'?  i-l:L`
site. The Government's targets for 1980 are about 24,0030 ha of pul1-.1c0o_
plantations and about  36,00') ha of sawlog plantations.
5.        Kenya's potentia'L for the low--cost production of industria;l wood is
one of the main reasons behind the Governme2nts extensive forestry progralm.
Costs are currently low compared with many countries, primarily k.ecause of
more favorable climate and soils.  Nevertheless, both the production and
utilization of undustrial plantation present same problems. These include
the poor quality of sawn timber currently being produced from young pine
plantations; the absence of an efficient system for pruning crops which
produce sawn lumber for export markets; plantation establishment problems
due to poor soils in the Turbo pulpwood plantation area; and damage to young
Pinus radiata plantations caused by fungal disease Dothistroma. The Govern-
ment's Forestry Department is studying these problems. The Dothistroma
fungus has been controlled by spraying, but only the better sites may be
able to support the cost; a switch to species other than Pinus radiata will
be adopted wherever possible. The pruning and maintenance of young crops
can be adequately handled only if the Forest Department's budget and steffing
are kept at suitable levels.
Rural Afforestation and Country Council Forestry Schemes
6.        About 1% of the Forest Department's current budget is devoted to
promotion of rural afforestation, i.e. production of building poles and
fuelwood on private farmlands in the rural areas. An additional 8% of the
budget is allocated to local afforestation schemes, through the planting of
hilltops and marginal lands in the rural areas. These schemes are in forest
areas owned by the Country Councils and managed by the Forest Department.
The Government plans to give more attention to these activities. The ex-
tension of the rural afforestation scheme to all administrative districts
would require opening about 40 Forestry Extension Offices. The scheme relies
mainly on making tree seedlings available at subsidized rates to farmers,
backed up by an extension service to advise on selection of species, tree
planting methods, etc. Five extension foresters have been posted to Meru,
Narok, Bangoma, S. Nyanza and Machakos.
7.        The demand for fuelwood and building poles in the rural areas far
exceeds the demand for all other forms of roundwood. It is propable that
each rural family consumes 5 m3 of fuelwood and poles a year. If all this
had to be supplied from forest plantations an area of one million ha would
be needed to supply estimated 1980 requirements on a sustained yield basis.
Land is clearly not available for a program of this size, but it reflects
the magnitude of the problem, and suggests that there must ultimately be a
shift to other forms of fuel. However, wood will remain the main source of
fuel for most rural households for many years to come, and the planned in-
crease in Government expenditure on rural afforestation is justified.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Forest Land Use
8.        The pressure on forest land for alternative uses such as agricultural
settlement is heavy. During the last five years, not gazetted excisions of
forest land for agricultural settlement have totalled about 30,000 ha; another
20,000 ha have been taken up for national park development. In addition, ille-
gal spontaneous settlement and continuous maize cropping is taking place on a
substantial but unquantified scale in such areas as the south slopes of Mount
Elgon, Cherangani, and the South West Mau forest reserves. Under these condi-
tions an increase in surface runoff leading to irreversible soil erosion seems
inevitable. Further, continuing excision of the protective forest will result
in the deterioration of water catchments and jeopardize perennial river flows
over wide areas (Appendix 1).
9.        Only about 4% of the land area of East Africa can expect to receive
in four years out of five as much as 1,500 mm of rain a year. It is only
from this very small area that perennial rivers originate; these rivers make
critically important for agriculture in the drier and more marginal areas.
Removal of the natural forest cover followed by uncontrolled grazing and
cropping has already resulted in excessive soil erosion and to deterioration
in stream flows in Kenya.
East Africa Agriculture and Forest Research Organization (EAAFRO)
10.       EAAFRO began catclment studies in 1957 to discover the effect of
different vegetative covers on total water yield and on wet versus dry weather
stream flow. Various mnethods of soil and water conservation under different
types of cropping were also studies. These studies confirm that the natural
indigenous forest cover is highly effective in regulating stream flow. However,
catchment cover under certain conditions if combined with adequate soil conser-
vation measures along with storage dams below the catchment area to even out
dry weather stream flow.
11.       The 1972 IBRD Agricultural Sector Review Report recommended that
Government should take immediate steps to:
(a)  activate an Inter-Ministerial Land Use Committee and give it the
necessary capacity and powers to adjudicate forest land use
issues;
(b)  prevent further illegal and uncontrolled settlement in the forest
catchment areas;
(C)  mount further studies on croppino possibilities and of soil
conservation measures and storage dam capacity needed to ensure
adequate protection of forest catchment areas now coming under
neavy poulation pressure - and in which conversion of some of
the foresF area to agriculture -may be inevitable at some future
-lates  It was 3uggested that one possible -tvay of unLdertaking these



ANNEX I
Page 4
studiles would be to make th em an integral part of small
settlement projeot.a located within catchment areas on an
exparimental ba5i-a. TThis would permit an effective con-trol
over infrastructure, crop,ping patterns) and soil conserva-
tion neasu..ares and t.he collection of data on the resultilng
catchMent water yield and stream flows.
120       Since the agricu..,;:.ra c  Sector Survey was com7.pleted increasing
concern has been exprcssed -in Kenya about the possible environment.l. con-
seqpuences of cortinued conversion of indigenous forest to plnta LaO  s i  nd
-t nould therefore be appropr-ate to include a review of this aspect as an
integral part of a land use study of the forest (see Appendix 2)
13.       Kenya's Five Year Plan (1970-74) recommended the establislhaet a
Land Use Committee to advise on the most appropriate use of land where there
are conflicts of interest between alternative use as agriculture, forestry
and wildlife and tourism. This Committee has not yet been established and it
is now a matter of urgency that it should be set up. It should consist of
the Mlinisters for Finance and Economic Planning, Land Settlement, Agriculture,
Tourism and Wildlife and Natural Resources and be responsible for fonnulation
of land use policies and the approval of all land claims on different uses
of public land. In carrying out these tasks it should be assisted by a small
Land Use Secretariat, headed by the Commissioner of Lands. The proposed Forest
Land Use study (Appendix 2) would provide expert advice to the Committee.
.esEcolog
14.       The Government's plantation establishment program would inevitably
cause changes in micro-ecosystems by introducing mono-cultures.  The impact
at the macro level can however be expected to be mostly positive, by preserv-
ing a closed forest cover, thereby preventing illegal settlement possibly
followed by erosion and adverse effects on the water balance. It remains,
however, important to avoid plantation establishment in areas of great ecolo-
gical interest.
15.       Two ecologist consultants who were members of the appraisal team
have reviewed the Government's program and proposed steps to be taken to
support them from an ecological standpoint including the establishment of
Nature Reserves (Appendix 1). All the areas are under active consideration
by Government for creation of such reserves; the Kakamega and Arabuko-Sokoke
forests are specifically mentioned in the 1974-78 Five Year Plan. It is also
recommended that studies be undertaken before and after creation of plant-
ations in indigenous forests. Consideration should also be given to bringing
forest land now outside the Forest Reserve under Government control. Provided
that these recommendations are followed, the ecological consequences stemming
from the program should be within acceptable limits.



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Environmental Impact-/
A. Preservation of Indigenous Forests
1.        Until recently vast land areas within the tropics have been covered
by forests. In the past few years much of this area has gradually been taken
over by agriculture, as the fertile soils and the favorable climate make the
land ideal for cultivation. The tropical forests have also been devastated
by the uncontrolled logging which has opened previously impenetrable areas
to unrestricted use by charcoal producers, pastoralists and small farmers.
These activities have disturbed the natural soil regime, and the result has
often been leaching and pan formation, destruction of organic matter, loss
of plant nutrients and general soil erosion. The establishent of forest
plantations to replace the indigenous forest cover has received little
support, with the result that today only marginal areas are still available
for planting, and even on these areas there is constant pressure from agri-
culturalists and livestock owners.
2.        Only recently has attention been drawn to the necessity of preserv-
ing at least representative samples of the various forest types. These
forests demonstrate an unparalleled richness and diversity of life, and their
preservation is essential not only as a learning tool for science, but also
as they represent an important tool in the conservation of valuable land
resources and a source of both present and future economic wealth. The
destruction of these indigenous tropical forests is an irreversible act
whose ultimate environmental consequences are not alwasy fully appreciated.
If the case for preservation is to be make in a cohesive and rational manner,
however, some means must be found for evaluating the various conflicting
interests and for establishing a scale of priorities. Once this has been
done, an overall land use plan can be drawn up; this will not only help to
minimize the adverse ecological effects of uncontrolled forest development,
but should also help to reduce the present undesirable conflict of interest
between foresters and agriculturalists.
1/   This appendix was prepared by P. Brinck and P. H. Enckell, ecology
consultants who accompanied the IBRD Appraisal Mission to Kenya in
September/October 1974. Thaose recommendations of the consultants
which relate to the area directly affected by the Project are
subject of specific assurances, and the remainder are presented here
with the reconrnendation to Government that they be given serious
attention.



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
3.        It has become eviden.t that the only way to retain biological diver-
sity and to preserve the ful'L richnness and complexity of these indigenous
forests is to preserve an entire forest ecosystem.  Early conservat om :ists
-.nade considerable efforts to preserve rare (endemic) species, irrespe-tive
of any cooncern for the status of the environamcnt in which the speciP£ existed.
This approach should be avoided, as it often leads to isolation or .xilnction
of th2 species in a small par-t of an incomplete ecosystem.  The sur--ival of
a rare species can be ensured only by preser-vin.g complete and viaile parts
of the ecosystem.  Given pres,ent experience  i-L is evldent that some form of
legal protection is necessary if an ecosyste'n is to be allowed to remain
undisturbed.  The main instrumenit to be employed is the creation of a Nature
Reserve under the administration of the Forst Department.  However, some
method must be available to the administrators so that they can make intelli-
gent choices between different forms of competing land uses. Each proposal
for the protection of a particular forest area must be evaluated with extreme
care, so that ultimately the most effective sample of various forest types
is preserved for future generations. The criteria outlined below are set
forth as an indication of the variety of factors which should be considered
in making the necessary choices.
Conservation of Land Resources 1/
(a) Soil status: organic contents, nutrients, texture.
(b) Erosion preventive features.
(c) Water catchment and influence on water movement.
(d) Climatic influence: humidity, air filtering capacity.
Present Economic Value 2!
(e) Exploitation of single tree species.
(f) Extraction of wood for fuel, housing, fencing, and carving.
1/   It has been argued that carefully managed forest plantations and farm
crops can achieve these aims as well as natural vegetation. Given
defined cultivation methods, short term experiments seem to support
this opinion. Long term observations of prevailing conditions in most
tropical countries seem to show that traditional forms of land use
(i.e. the shamba system) are not sufficient to conserve soil and water
resources. More research is needed on the importance of tropical
forests for water catchment, soil conservation and local climate.
2/   Only (f) and (h) are of considerable importance.  In practice, tourism
increases at a fast rate in countries where attractive forests can be
opened for tourists by the provision of adequate facilities.



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
(g) Habitats for game birds and mammals.
(h) Tourist attraction, because of scenic and recreational
value and a rich and diverse plant and animal life.
Future Economic Potential
(i)  Development of uses for currently economically non-
merchantable species of trees and plants.
(j)  Development of uses of active natural chemical compounds
present in large numbers in forest plants and animals.
(k)  Gene pools, retaining the range of variation within the
species, and forming the basis for future search for
attractive characters in useful species.
(1)  Development of uses of ecological mechanisms which stabilize
inter-relations between species and (1) form the basis for
future biological control in the tropics and subtropics, and
(2) make control possible of the great variations in numbers
of individuals occurring in exploited or otherwise pertur-
bated ecosystems. 1/
Present and Future Scientific Value
(m)  Differentiation in structure and function of species and
their adaptation to the complex environment. This is the
basis of biological evolution.
(n)  Optimum utilization of energy and soil resources.  This is
a characteristic of humid tropical forests in contrast to
man made ecosystems. The possibility of studying natural
ways of increasing productivity.
(o)  Biologically generated substances which pass information
and release reactions among individuals and species.
(p). Life forms analysis (autecology) of species.
(q)  Degree of endemicity (species/genera restricted to the
area in question).
1!   It has been argued that chemists will produce needed substances in the
laboratory and that geneticists will use gene pools available in planta-
tions in natural products chemistry, nor the fact that plantations/
arboreta contain only part of the genetric variation of a small number
of species.



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 1
Page 4
(r)  Degree of diversity (complexity of plant and animal communities).
Cur rent Problemns and Reco-Tmme ndat ions
FL, Local Utilization of indiaenous Forests,  All over Africa local
pu,p-.lation groups meet thaei-r need of wood for fuel, housing, and fene-Ing
L.rn :ndigencus forests an-l t> .ttionS.i This consumuption is consiierab'e,.
.ii Tunisia  it has been sho-.n rhat the darily ration of fuclwood  s 's
?g p>jerers.n (10 - 20 kg per fami'y) 5 thus 80 - 150 kg are used per  f
-o r  ousi,g 3purposes each -year. The 'Aigures are similar in K enya-  This re 7 as
-At take of 2)6,000 tons each day for fuelwood alone (9.6 mi  1.  cons each
Far.  Housing material contributes about 6 - 7% of thiS fig  -   .T   s
been calculated (FAOSWE/TF 28, 1970) that by the year 2,000  Co -ual  mr Rsuption
v71l have doubled, while the plantation program is expected to y5eid only
1.25 million tons per year at that time.  These figures thus indicate that
the pressure on indigenous forests will increase considerably.
5.        There are several different ways of neutralizing the impact of
this trend. In Kenya one succssful method used by the Forest Department
hias been to surround forests in exposed locations with a protective zone of
plantations; this scheme should be extended. The Forest Extension Service
serves the same purpose by stimulating local tree planting through rural
afforestation and Country Council forestry schemes.
6.        Pulp Mill Development.  The Project includes trial plantations for
a possible pulp mill at Sabaki River near Malindi. From certain points of
view (i.e. water supply, transport) such a site is well chosen. On the
other hand, serious conflicts may arise over the question of optimum land
use. It should be noted that there are four 'Marine National Parks and
National Reserves at the mouth of the river, and one proposed Nature Reserve
in the Forst Reserve singled out for the plantation of pulp trees. A land
use plan for this area is urgently needed.
7.        Also, a future doubling of the Webuye pulp mill's productive
capacity may give rise to serious conflict over land use, particularly
with regard to the need for nature conservation in the area. The impact of
the Webuye mill on the Nzoia River was not considered. Under present
conditions the population may well be tolerable, but the situation should be
closely monitored by regular water analysis and examination of fish species
known to accumulate toxic substances.
8.        The Need for Documentary Studies of Indigenous Forests.  The develop-
ment of indigenous forests often results in widespread changes in the flora
and fauna, the effects of which are often little known and poorly understood.
Under similar circumstances, certain countries have found it advisable to
provide funds for documentary studies of the various ecosystems. In Kenya



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 1
Page 5
the possibilities for such a study are particularly favorable owing to the
capability of the National Museum and its staff. It is recommended that
studies of this kind be undertaken under the auspices of the Museum.
B. Recommendations for Future Forest Protection
9.        The main forest types in Kenya have been grouped into six classifica-
tions: 1/ Western Rain Forests, Upland Forests, Dry Land Forest, Wooded
Grassland, Coastal Forests and Mangrove Forests. The current administrative
status of the forests within each classification is illustrated in Table 1,
although this classification, it should be noted, does not include forests
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife or the Kenya
National Parks system.  Tle total forest area of about 2,551,000 ha includes
approximately 1,661,000 ha of forest which have been gazetted and placed under
the exclusive control of the Forestry Department within the Ministry of
Natural Resources. Thus far, four Nature Reserves have been established
within the gazetted Forest Reserve areas:
Kisere Nr                       484 ha
Yala River Nr                   469 ha
Kakamega Forest Station Nr    210 ha
S.W. Mau Nr                  42,720 ha
43,883 ha
10.       The discussion below is restricted to the four main forest classi-
fications, i.e., Western Rain Forests, Upland Forests, Dry Land Forests and
Coastal Forests. The remaining two - Wooded Grassland and Mangrove Forests -
are of lesser importance and do not require treatment herein. The recommend-
ations presented are those which it is believed would, if implemented, ensure
the preservation of a suitalbe forest cover in Kenya and the retention of
biological diversity and richness in the major representative ecosystems.
A detailed discussion of the ongoing Government plantation program has not
been included, but it can be said that in general this program is a highly
laudable one.
Western Rain Forests
11.       Kakamega Forest Reserve.  The Western Rain Forests are tropical
rain forests of the west central African type, of which the only remaining
example in Kenya is the Kakamega Forest. As Kakamega is unique among Kenya
forests, a viable part of the remaining indigenous forest area should be
1/   Nomenclature according to P. J. Greenway, 1973.



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX d
Page 6
preserved.  Witli the exce,ption of items (i) arnd (n) , the criteria outlined
in paragraph 3 should be appiied to determine the optimu.m use pattern.  At
present a considerable part of t'he forest has been planted or is under develop-
reint.  It is therefore reconnendled that the follow ing steps be takein to
ensure the oreservation of the indigenous areas.
(a)  P7Ieservation of the Kakama-ga Forest Station Nature Reservt<-
at its present SIzes  Due to its good acoessibility, th:'
Reserve is suitable for tourismj, en.iucaatioal ourposes, aid
experimental research.
(b)  A study should be undertaken which would determine whether
there is a need for additional nature reserves in the
Kekamega forest reserve.
Upland Forests
12.       These include both the Upland Rain Forest (with a well distributed
rainfall over 1,500 mm), and Upland Dry Evergreen Forests (rainfall whether
high or low not well distributed). The larger part of the Kenya forests
are of this type. Rain Forests are found on parts of 'It. Kenya and in the
Kikuyu Forest, while the Dry Evergreen Forests are found in the Cedar Fcrest,
Mt. Kenya and on the 'Iau Escarpment.
13.       North Nandi Forest Reserve.  The biological variety exibited within
the Kakamega - Nor,th Nandi area (induced by the sharp north-southerly and
east-westerly climatic gradients) is of great scientific value, and efforts
must be made to preserve a substantial part of the forest. In the determin-
ation of the most suitable approach items (a) - (f) and (k), (m) and (p) of
the criteria outlined in para 3 are particularly applicable. Some form of
immediate action is advisable, as considerable parts of the Reserve have
suffered from encroachment, and logging has been going on for a long time.
The proposed Second Forestry Plantation Project includes provision for the
planting of totally 900 ha; this planting might well be carried out south
of the newly excised settlment area in the north.
14.       It is recommended-that:
(a)  A protected area of not less than 3,000 ha be established
along the escarpment (along grid line 720; map East Africa
1:50,000 sheet 102/2 Kakamega) and in close connection with
the protected area in the Kakamega Forest Reserve.
These two areas would then form a Kakamega - North
Nandi Nature Reserve, retaining the existing biologic'l
gradient between the two forest types.



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 1
Page 7
(b)  The intervening area between the Nandi escarpment and
the Kakamega Forest Reserve should preferably be planted
with indigenous hardwood, ensuring a biological exchange
between the two areas.
15.       S. W. Mau Forest Reserve.  This reserve forms part of the largest
existing forest area in Kenya. It's value can be demonstrated by applying
the criteria outlined above (para 3); all of the criteria are applicable,
and for some of them - (n), (n), (r), and probably (q) - the forest presents
an outstanding potential. The most immediate difficulty is that settlement
is rapidly expanding into the already established 42,700 ha. Nature Reserve
from the northeast border. It is therefore recommended that:
(a) The northeast border area should be excised from the
Nature Peserve. Under the direction of the newly
established. Forest Station at Ndoinet, a plantation
programi should be carried out to ensure that any further
settlement along the valleys of the Nature Reserve ceases.
(b) The Nature Reserve should be enlarged by expansion toward
the southeast to include parts of the rough and impenetrable
Trans Mara forest area.
Pry Land Forest
16.       These forests are characterized by well developed acacia/commiphora
woodland in the wetter areas and by scrubland and semi-desert in the drier
areas. Submontane evergreen bushland and secondary montane grassland with
relict patches of montane forest are found in the northern areas. In order
to ensure the continued viability of these areas, it is recommended that:
(a) Steps should be taken to ensure that grazing in the Samburu
Protection Forest southeast of Lake Rudolf, the Marsabit
Forest and the Mt. Kulal Forest east of the lake does not
exceed the carrying capacity of the forests These are now
subject to heavy grazing pressure - especially during the
dry season. Also, in order to strengthen the water catchment
capacity of the area these protective forests should be
enlarged.
(b)  The possibility of replanting the Huri Hills Forest should be
investigated.
(c)  The Karasuk Iills Forest and the Muranisigar Forest west
of Lake Rudolf should be gazetted and turned into protection
forests.
(d) The riverline forests in the lower reaches of the Tana
river are ecclogically valuable, and should be evaluated
according to the criteria in para 3.



ANNE-X I
APPENDIX 1
Page 8
C'as tal rorests
1 7:      These forests include Lowland Rain Forests, Lowland Evergreen Dry
7Fcr -sts, and Lowiland Woodland (Brachystegla-Afzelia).  The best example of
the imixed coastal type is the Arabuko-Sokoke Forest Reserve.  This forest
contins three endemic bird sDcies and one endemic mammal species.
18.       Arabuko-Sokcke Fciest R.eserve.  Plans are now underway 'or an
,xtensive planting program. in this area which would include planting of
parts of the Arabuko-Sokoke Forest Reserve. Trial plantations ir. the
nortlieast part of the forest are already undenray.  The Forest Depar'.-lent
-s proposed Lo establish a 4,000 ha Nature Reserve which would 1nclulde
-c7he essential parts of the surviving forest types. 1/ The nu-t-wer of criteria
..para 3) applicable to this forest is comparatively low t(a), (e) - (h),
(i), (k), (m) and (o) - (r)), but the combination of the criteria shows
that this forest is unusual and that its scientific value is hiigh.
l9.       The location of the Nature Reserve is the best one possible, and
the size sufficient, provided that a broad zone of indigenous vegetation is
kept surrounding the Reserve. Extraction of wood for wood-carving and other
local purposes should be allowed in this area.  There seems to be a more
or less regular seasonal migration of big game from Tsayo National Park.
According to local information this migration has increased in the last few
years. The extent and importance of these movements for the animals and the
impact on the forest should be investigated.
20.       Other Forested Areas.  The forested area north of the river Sabaki
(now Country Council land) is intended to be taken over by Government and
gazetted. It is a comparatively sparse and low dry forest which seems to
be secondary, though according to local information it has never been
harvested.  It may be that the area was extensively cultivated/grazed
centuries ago when the region was densely populated. Present population
density is very low and only shifting cultivation is practiced. Water is
a limiting factor. Planting the area (as proposed in preliminary plans)
might well be possible (and profitable), using those species, e.g. Gmelinea,
which trials in the Arabuko-Sokoke area have shown to be successful.
21.       The large Boni/Lungi forest area in the north is in the process of
being grazetted. The potential of the area should be evaluated according
to the criteria presented in para 3 above.
1/   Assurances that this Reserve would be established was obtained from
Government during negotiations for the proposed Second Forestry Planta-
tion Project.



A NT;\ EX 1
APPENDIX 2
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Forest Land Use Stuyd
Introduction
1.       W4ith only 4% of its land area covered by forests, the preservation
of most of the existing forest land of some 2.5 million ha is vital to the
preservation of the country's hydrological conditions and for much of its
unique flora and fauna. Pressure from competitive claims against forest land
is however strong and before more is released for uses other than forestry,
an expert assessment needs to be made of the land which should be preserved
under forest cover.
2.        The Inter-Ministerial Land Use Committee to be established
would have overall responsibility for formulating policies and
approving land claims for different uses on public land. This Committee
would need technical information, in particular in the forest areas on the
significance of preserving forest cover for such ecological needs as the
preservation of water catchment areas, the avoidance of soil erosion, and the
protection of wildlife and unique ecosystems in the context of other competing
claims. The Project would therefore provide for an expert study of the role
of Forest Reserves.
Proposed Scope of the Study
3.        The study would form part of the land capability survey and would
comprise a review of public land suitable for forestry. The study would
specifically recommend:
(a) categories, by priority, of forest areas which should be
preserved having regard to their existing and potential
commercial value, their role in maintaining (and where
necessary improving) water catchment areas, the prevention
of soil erosion and the preservation of important ecosystems;
(b) specific areas to be set aside as forest, nature of other
protected reserves;
(c) recommendations for the Government control of forest areas
or public land not included in Forest or Nature Reserves,
and National Parks and Game reserves;
(d) measures to establish a monitoring system of land-use
changes to be based on ERTS (Earth Resources Technology
Satellites)



ANTNEX I
APPENDIX 2
Page 2
4,         In this context, the Project would also address itself to the need
of training local skills to interpret data from ERTS.  Costs including
contingencies for imagery training and processing have been estimated at
US$3 00,000.
5.         The study is expected to require the services of a general land
use planning economist, a forest specialists, an agronomist, a hydrologist
and an ecologist with particular experience in forest ecology. Consultants
may also be retained for other specific assignments.



KENYA
,LCOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Forust PcEions in Kenj (h.)
(1973)
i.nminiser.               Western               Up Lnrd         Dry Land               d          Coastal        .'langrove
-t r,t.2                 -.ain rorest           >'erest         ?orest           'ira,,sLand      Forest        Forest           Tote]
aoet-:e;l;73, 500n  1i,117,046)     359,-i700ilni.'0)                  714,700        45,070       1,660,950
Jr 3. 3 t -r 5 5             _                  9 33, !:8o65, 750                 30,539             _                           1')09,860
11;e  -. r   8 8 8750          5,0'0O         430,000           _            780, 900
Tnt al                     23,500            1,l106,97)         493,700           77,070          506, 700        45,070      2,551,010
'-ian-1: ; 3
tof  io-7)                  2,500               96,870             -               5,35             1,935           _            106,630
lb ture
-eserv-es                    1,163               93,032             -                -                _                           94,195
The i.5,5 n,;7l  ha -ae,etted  '      -'F t  ean he subdivided as-follo^c:
Productive indigenous land                   37.5
ilantetion                                     D.5
Bamboo fore,st                               12
Protection Po-rest Land                      26 0/                                                                            C
OraF-ss and hush                             18                                                                              H >
Source: Forest Department Survey Section



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Forest Industries
1.        About 180 sawmills are operating in the Government forest Lreas
producing in 1973 a total of about 100,000 m3(s). Of these about 65 operate
on long-term Government licenses on private or Country Councii land. The
sawnills are widely dispersed, typically small (there are only 5 mills with
an annual capacity of over 3,000 m3 of sawn output), simple in design, tractor
or diesel powered and operate on a one-shift basis. The smaller mills are
well suited to provide sawn lumber for the growing rural market but product
quality is generally low and unsuitable for export.  In contrast, the larger
mills with high speed saws and kiln drying equipment can meet the aualitv
requirements of overseas markets and now account for about 50% of sawn softwood
exports. The Government owns and operates one of the 5 large sawmills in the
country and in conjunction with its Forest Industrial Training Center (FITC)
at Nakuru, FITC also operates a prefabricated wooden housing plant in which
experimental work is carried out on new house design, and methods of lumber
preservation.
2.        The two plywood mills, one at Elburgon and one at Elgevo, together
produced about 1 million m2 of plywood in 1972. A third mill is under con-
struction at Eldoret with a capacity of 1.5 million m2. Two more mills are
planned for the 1973-78 Plan period, one in the Mount Kenya area and one in
Masai Mau forest.
3.        The main markets for plywood are for tea chests, furniture manufac-
ture, and shuttering for buildings. The supply of high quality plantation-
produced softwood peeler logs is not yet sufficient to meet the industry's
requirements. To help meet this need, several indigenous species are being
used for peeler logs (mainly for tea chests).
4.        The pulp and paper mill at Webuye will be one of Kenya's largest
industrial enterprises. It will have an output capacity of 54,000 ADM-TA and
will produce both bleached and unbleached industrial grades of paper and
paperboard.  The mill will drawJ its wood supplies from Government forests
situated within a 100-mile radius of the mill.
5.        The forestry sector currently employs some 20,000 workers of which
8,000 are resident forest workers (the proposed Project covering the Forest
Department's industrial plantations program would employ about 4,750). In
addition, a further 10,000 are employed in forest based industries and this
number can be expected to grow significantly as Kenya expands its processing
capacity over the next 25 years. Earnings in forestry and logging in 1970



ANNTrX 2
Page 2
amounted to about K Sh 32 million (equivalent to about 10% of all earnings
from agriculture, forestry, hunting and fishing). Forest industrial ea-rnings
amounted to a further K Sh 80 million (equivalent to about 137 of all earnings
derived from manufacturing).
Efficiency in the Sawmill Sector
6.        The ultimate value of an industrial plantation program denends on
the effectiveness of the industries established to process its products.
Although the Kenya Forest Department has demonstrated its ability to manage
a large program of plantation establishment and maintenance, the countryts
processing industries and particularly the sawmilling industry has not yet
matched this performance.
7.        The reasons given by the Kenyan officials are:
(a)  obsolete machinery;
(b)  lack of competent managers, particularly in some mills which
are being promoted to assist indigenous entrepreneurs;
(c) shortage of skilled personnel such-as saw doctors and logging
personnel;
(d) lack of training. The training center at Nakuru does not
cater to the needs of the small rural sawmills;
(e) ownership problems. Some mills are absentee-owned;
(f) lack of management tools such as bookkeeping and balance
sheets;
(g) financial problems;
(h) uncertainties about the license period, resulting in
unwilliness to invest;
(i) lack of marketing organization.
8.        Decisions to award sawmill licenses are made by the Chief Conservator
in consultation with the Permanent Secretary. The granting of the license
depends on the availability of millable timber and the financial and profes-
sional fitness of the applicants. Although the Forest Department has developed
a system for monitoring applications it would be useful if the terms of such
concessions were publicized. A technical assistance program (Appendix 1) and
a training sawmill (Appendix 2) and consultants would be included under the
Project.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Stuae Rates
9.        The development of a sound stumpage rate policy is of critical
importance to the industries using wood products as well as for the establish-
ment and maintenance of forest plantations. Prevailing stumpage rates in
Kenya, which are at present low, are detailed in Annex 7, Table 6. The rela-
tive importance of the stumpage price for sawmills of different sizes pr $ ucing
sawn sizes producing sawn softwood are detailed in Table 2 to this Annex which,
expressed as a percentage of total costs (excluding denreciation) shows a
range of 17 to 30%.
10.       An increase in stumpage rates could be expected to have the follow-
ing results:
(a) increase the revenues accruing to the Forest Department (and
thus to Government) moving towards the position where the
industrial plantation program can be established on a finan-
cially self-sustaining basis. This would help ensure the
availability of resources for the replanting of areas clear-
felled and place this aspect of the industry on an essentially
conmercial footing;
(b) increase the efficiency of the saumilling industry which at
the present low conversion rate of 35% needs to be improved.
This in turn might have the effect of taking some less
efficient sawmillers out of business and encourage the
expansion of those which have the potential to operate
efficiently;
(c)  increase prices of final products to the producer: 1/
(d)  narrow the very substantial gap which now exists between the
cost of Kenya produced sawlogs and the equivalent cost of the
imported product. This in turn could lead to a more efficient
allocation of national resources.
11.       Although the effect of higher stumpage rates could be expected to
result in some increase in cost to consumers particularly in the short-term
(though in particular cases e.g. rural supplies specific subsidies could be
given) the overall result would be beneficial resulting in higher efficiency
and a better use of resources. Furthermore, even if there are other benefits
from the forests than those stemming from the wood production like income from
tourism and ecological benefits, it would be desirable that the stumpage rates
would be increased significantly to make the wood production self-financed.
1/   Timber prices were held down by Government over the 1970-73 period.  Timber
prices increased in 1974 by 20-25% when a court declared the price ordinance
illegal.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
12.       Up to 1970 the stumnpage rate for plantation log was calculated
annually according to the formula:
Royalty of certain specie = Average selling price for species
for the whole industry x recovery
factor x group percentage 1/
Since 1970 the rates hiave been increased by an annual 10% in nominal terms.
The Forest Department should therefore be encouraged to convert the nominal
increase into a real one. The easiest and also the most predictable method
would be to increase stumpage rates by a flat 10% corpounded annually over
and above the rate of inflation. 2/
1/   A relationship between selling price of finished product and conversion
cost.
2/   A steeper increase is not advisable to provide adequate time to the mills
so that they can make arrangements to improve their technological effi-
ciency. Such a proposal is also likely to encounter political obstacles.



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Sawmilling Industry
Introduction
1.        The Kenya sawmilling industry currently comprises some 180 mills.
A list of the mills by capacity and current Droduction is given in Table 1.
Output has averaged about 110,000 m3/year of sawnwood in the last three years.
The IBRD Market Study of the Kenya Forestry Project carried out in 1971
concluded that there exists a market potential for a very rapid expansion         3
of output of sawn lumber from about 160,000 cubic meters in 1975, to 210,000 m
in 1980 and 280,000 m3 in 1985. However, it is clear that this output is
unlikely to be achieved without a considerable improvement in the technical
and business management performance of many of the existing mills.
2.        For a number of years the Governmett's Forest Department has been
attempting to improve the situation and has made available technical advisers
from the Forest Department to assist the mills in identifying bottlenecks
and improving their efficiency. However, only a limited impact has been made
so far.
3.        The proposed technical assistance would aim to increase the expert
advice available to sawmillers and, in particular, to assist sawmillers in
business management and accounting. Assistance would be given to millers in
the preparation of loan requests to financing agencies such as the Investment
Development Bank (IDB), and in timber marketing.
Proposed Scope of the Technical Assistance Program
4.        The Project would provide three sawmill experts for three years to
assist the sawmill sector. They would comprise:
(i)  an experienced sawmill engineer with background in small scale
sawmilling and teaching. He would be attached to the training
sawmill (Appendix 2);
(ii) two sawmill technicians with experience also in business man-
agement and marketing. They would spend most of their time
visting the various sawmills in the country to provide
technical assistance.



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
5.        The.sawmill experts would be working together with three counter-
parts and would be stationed in Nakuru. Their work would be closely geared
to the work of the Forest Industries Division of the Forest Department and
with that of IDB.



ANNDa, 2
APPENDIX 2
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Proposed Training Sawmill
1.        Objective:  To train small-scale sawmill owners and their operatives
in basic logging and sawmilling technology. Short courses of one month dura-
tion are envisaged, composed of some 10 trainees per course giving an out-
turn of around 100 trainees/year.
2.        The training sawmill would be located adjacent to the Forest
Industry Training Center sawmill at Nakuru and would be able to utilize per-
sonnel and equipment from that mill.
3.        Capital Costs:  Basic buildings and equipment costs would be as
noted below.
(a) Sawmill
US$
Main breakdown 36" circular saw with cable               15,000
drawn carriage
Multiple 3 ft. band re-saws with bench (alternative
circular saws)                                     12,000
Multiple edger                                           10,000
Saw doctor's equipment                                   4,000
Power Unit (180 HP Diesel)                               10,000
Shafts; bearings; pulleys and belts                      5,000
Cut off saw single blade                                  1,000
Sub-total sawmilling equipment                     57,000
Ancillary equipment
5 ton truck                                              10,000
Pick up 1-1/2 ton                                        5,000
Agri-tractor with winch                                  10,000
Power saws with spares                                      500
Logging hand tools                                          300
Sub-total ancillary equipment                      25,800



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 2
Page 2
Engineering 10% of equipment cost                        US$
Engineering 10% of equipment cost                        5,700
Shipping and inland transport                            8,500
Buildings, foundations 10% of
sawmill equipment costs                             5,700
Spares, 10% machinery costs                              5,700
108,400
Contingencies                                            1,600
Total                              US$110,000
(b) Housing: It is assumed 50% of the junior staff and labour housing
will live in existing houses.
K Sh 000
1   Sawmill Manager                                        145
3   Junior Staff                                            87
8   Mill Operatives                                         33
10  Single-unit block                                       20
Total                                 K Sh 286
4.        Staff and Labour Requirements and Costs
Annual Cost (K sh 000)
Sawmill Manager                                                  28
Accounts Clerk                                                   12
2 Clerks                                                         14
2 Scalers                                                        12
Typist                                                            7
Watchman                                                          4
Head Sawyer                                                      16
3 Sawyers                                                        21
Saw Doctor                                                        9
Mechanic                                                           9
Power Unit Operator                                               5
2 Drivers                                                        14
9 Sawmill Labourers                                              32
Logging Foreman                                                   9
Total                                           K Sh 192
Some of these personnel could be utilized together with FITC.



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 2
Page 3
5.        Sawmill Operating Costs and Revenues.  Assuming the mill will
operate at a production level of 2,000 ms/year log input (1,000 m3/year
sawnwood output) the approximate operating costs and revenues are summarized
below.
Costs                                    K sh m3 (r)    Annual Cost (k sh 000)
Stumpage                                     25                    50
Logging and Log Transport 1/                 25                    50
Sawmill operating excluding
salaries and wages                         15                    30
Total                                                  130
Revenue (ex-mill sales)
1,000 m3 general Grade Sawn Lumber at K sh 400                    400
6.        Subsistence Costs of Trainees.  A severe constraint on the attend-
ance of trainees at the present F.I.T.C. has been the inability of the F.D.
to offer board and lodgings. To obviate a similar situation arising, it is
assumed that the balance of revenue over direct operating costs, e.g. K sh
400,000 less K sh 150,000 = K sh 250,000, will be available for providing
subsistence expenses of trainees, and will cover costs of demonstration
visits to other sawmills, training aids and publicity.
7.        Cost Summary
Capital Costs                       K sh            US$
Sawmill and Ancillary
Equipment                          -            110,000
Housing                            286,000           -
Sub Total                286,000        110,000
Annual Staff and Labour Costs
x 6 years                      1,152,000           -
Total Project Costs                K sh 2,223,400
1/   Assumed bulk of logging carried out on contract basis.



ANNEX 2
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF SAWMILLS OPERATING ON LONG-TBER
LICENCES IN FOREST RESERVES
Estimated
Recorded ProductiorA'        No. of   Percent of
Name of Mill               Lccation       19i7       1972      1973      Employees  Production
for Export
Amalgamated, Njoro         Nessuit       4,235      4,970     3,605         108          33
Amalgamated, Maji.azui                   8,745    11,165      1,165         198          80
N4ariashoni                Mariashoni      315        245       385         105
Eastern Rift               Kinale        1,680      2,730     2,660          79           9
Bhangra                    Kapsabet      1,435      1,085     1,400          50          -
Chieko (PA) Ltd.           Riron_                    ?          350          33          -
Elgeyo                     Elgeyc        3,500      4,2?70    5,600         404          15
Endima                     Mau Narok       455        455       560          ?            7
FITC. (F.D.)               Nakurl        6,300    11,365      7,840         100          -
Gita                       Geta           ?           455       560          38          _
S.i. aithu                   ?            -          -        2/             -           -
Holyoak                    S.Kinangop    ?            165     1,050          55          -
Kakamega                   Kakemega        455        485       485          79          -
Kamugi                     Kutus           175        560       280          69          -
Katimok                    Kabarnet        420        210       105          30          -
Kedowa                     Kerisoi         350       ?        1,435          46          -
Kiambu                     Kiambu         ?           196       325          47          -
Kibleso                    Molo/         1,680      2,380     2,905         180           2
Makutano
Kihari Timber              Kiganjo        ?         1,470     1,785         130          -
KentisLber Enterprises     Blern          -           655       875          ?           -
Kyeni Woodworks            NanguKi        ?           455       700          53          -
Kirue                      Mt. Kenya      -          -          105          24          -
Kitiro                     Elbargon        770        490       980         114          -
K rishna                   Sorget          350       ?          315          ?           -
Limuru (Ind.Timber Co)    Banana Hill 1,265           700     1,990         135          -
14aina                     Nyahururu    1,050         875       490          51          -
Makuli                     Makuli         -          -        2/             -           -
Maral1eet                  Elgeyo          525        455       525          60          -
karmanet                   Nyahurrru    1,750       2,030     2,510         200          11
Masaba                     Mr.Blgon      1,785      1,750     1,050          68          -
Ebale                      Kakemega        280       350        350          ?           -
Molo                       Holo          1,715      3,605     2,760         123          -
'booni                     Kililima         21       ?          105          ?           -
hugeria                    Gathiuru       ?            91       135          51          -
Mllbau                     Kiganjo        ?          ?         ?             78          -
KsutarakwTa                N.Kinangop      420        805       420          37          -
Mutitu                       ?            _                   2/             -           -
Nyamindi                   Muniri           17        245       175          60          -
Nwenja Ngure               01 Bclossat    420         525       910          45          -
Panafrican Paper
Mills (Pulpwood)          Ilebye         -          -        3/             -           -
Rai Agric.Fnternrises      Kinilili        690        700       350          70          20
Sabatia                      ?            -          -        2/             -           -
Sokoro                     Elbuigorg    9,311      9,695      9,205         202          14
Suam                       Mt.Elgon        350       ?           70          ?           -
Teltel                       ?            -          -        2/             -           -
Sorget                     Londiann       ,925        595     1,050          ?           _
Uttam Singh Brar           Kirale        2,3'0     1,610      2,730         122           7
WTananchi                  Kabage        1,260      2,C65     2,105          99           3
Wason                      Meru          2,030       ?        1,855         190           7
West Mau                   Ker.asoi        350        980       895          60          -
Yacoob Deen Co.Ltd.        Kara-i na     2,205     1,610      1,750         125           7
Sheboy-it                  Chebcyet        980        910     1,085          70          10
Nanyuki Timber Sales       Nacyma'        ?          ?          665          52          -
Sagana                     Karat':-        385        570       430          43          -
Ruain',azi Tiber Ind.     Irarng'                   ?           43          ?           -
Mt.Blackett (1969) Ltd.   3araget          350       ?         ?             ?           -
Hans Raj (Oheranganyi)    Cherangacyi    126          210       200          22          -
Burst                      Nabkoi        1,?60      1,435     1,750         100          -
Band Raj (Kipkabus)        Kipkabus    '1,435       1,470       875          66          -
Irangi Timber Ind.         irangi         ?          ?          280           7          -
Kaptagat4/                 Kaptagat      1,960,    1,505      1,680         160          20
Source: Sawnmilling Officer, Kenya Forest Department.
1/ Generally based on 1 x 8 hr. shift/day.
2/ No recorded Production.
3/ Harvesting Pulpwood only.
7/ Licence expires 1974.



KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
The  Leationship lietween Stumpage Price and Other Production inputsl/ for Some Kenyan Sa,mesills Producing, Softwood/
Variable                           Unit
Size of mill in m3(s) per year                                  196*       981*      1,170        2,522       2,610        2,624        3,060        3,439*       3,903*A      3,942*       6,784*       8,832*
Stumpage price (F.D. Royalty)            '000 shs/year            9         53           39          85          101          107         118          160          180          190          282          555
Transport of sawn-timber by others              "0                           0            0           0            0           70            0          15           44            0            0           63
Sawn-timber bought from others                  "0                           0            0           0            0           24            0          50            0            0           86            0
Production input (1)                                             19        118          101         308          294          319         312          499          463          529          878        1,157
Stumpage price irl 7 of (1)                     %                47.4       44.9         38.6        27.6         34.4         33.5         37.8        32.1         38.9         35.9         32.1         48.0
Wages & Salaries                          '000 shs/year           23        60           72         166          203          195          257         364          289          440          733          725
Production input (2)                            "                42        178          173         474          497          514         569          863          752          969        1,161        1,182
Stumpage price in 7, of (2)                     %                 21.4      29.8         22.5        17.9         20.3         20.8         20.7         18.5        23.9         19.6         17.5          29.5
Depreciation 3/                           '000 shs/year            2.5      14           27          42           35           33           53         142           53          113          180          139
Production input (3)                            "                44.5    192            200         516          532          547         622        1,005          805        1,082        1,791        2,021
Stumpage price in 7, of (3)                     7.                20.2      27.6         19.5        16.5         19.0         19.6         19.0         15.9         22.4        17.6          15.8         27.5
Stumpage p7rie                            ShSA/I  (r)             18.50     21.60        13.30       13.50        15.40        16.30        15.40        18.60        18.10        16.60        16.50        23.20
1/ Production input (1) includes all rectrrrent expenditures (Stumpage price, Machinery spare parts, Diesel & Oil, Business services, Sales commissions etc.)
except: Transport of sawn-timber by others, Sawn-timber bought from others, Wages & Salaries and Depreciation.
Produiction inpuit (2) is Production input (1)  plus Wages & Salaries.
Production inptut (3) is Production input (2) plus Depreciation.
2/ More than 90% of the total production is soft-wood.
3/ 47. p.a. Buildirngs, 37.57  Vehicles, 12.5% mill machinery & equipment
(D  1



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FOREST PLANTATION PROJECT
Plantation Establishment and Development
1.        This Annex describes the technical aspects of physical works to be
carried out under the Project. These would include plantation establishment,
the construction and maintenance of roads, the construction of buildings and
housing for divisional headquarters and labor villages.
A. Plantation Establishment
2.        The plantation methods proposed for the Project are the same as
those followed in phase one. The proposed planting program is shown in Table 1.
The afforestation program will include nurseries, land clearing and preparation,
planting and replanting, surveying, weeding, pruning, thinning, protection
and road construction (Tables 1 and 2).
Nurseries
3.        Pulpwood.  The Turbo nursery which is capable of holding over three
million plants will continue to raise most of the plants for that division,
supplemented by the Saboti Nursery.
4.        Sawlog.  The average annual planting program in the sawlog area is
5,900 hectares. Twelve million plants would be needed to be met from the
existing nurseries. Species to be raised in these nurseries are Cupressus
lusitanica (80% of the total planting program), and Pinus patula and other
species, i.e. Eucalyptus and a few hardwoods which will account the remaining
20%. All seeds would be collected from the existing seed orchards. Seedling
are normally raised in the nursery for about six months before planting.
Land Clearing and Preparation
5.        Pulpwood.  In the pulpwood area of Turbo, there is no land demarca-
tion and preparation for planting is done by East African Tanning Extract Co
as Managing Agents. Land is ploughed and harrowed after which maize or wheat
is planted for two years before planting of pine trees is commenced.
6.        Sawlog Areas.  In the sawlog areas and in the pulpwood areas in
Eldoret Division the Land to be planted is first demarcated into 0.5 hectare
plots and allocated to laborers. They clear and burn these plots, plant
agricultural crops, i.e. maize, beans and potatoes, for two years, and plant
trees in the third year which are intercropped for an additional three years.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Felling of small trees in these plots is done by labor, while large trees
are felled by the Forestry Department usinlg power saws. Most of these areas
are very fertile and therefore no fertilization is required. In the grass-
lands subsoiling is carried out before pitting out is done.
Planting (Table 4):
7.        Pulpwood.  Planting in the pulpwood plantations would be done by
hand at a space of 2.7 m x 2.0 meters (approximately 1,800 plants per hectare).
The interval is designed to facilitate easy movement of harvesters while re-
moving the maize interplanted with the trees in the first year. It is also
designed to allow free movement of harrows during mechanical weeding. Plant-
ing commences immediately after sufficient moisture buildup has been formed
during the rainy season (April-lay); sometimes when rains are late planting
may continue to mid-August. Replacement of failed seedlings (beating up) is
done during the same season or the following year depending on the length of
the rainy season. Normally an allowance of 10% of the seedlings stock is
reserved for this purpose. Complete replanting during the following year is
done where over 75% of the establishment fails. The average planting require-
ment is 14 man-days per hectare.  This includes handling and movement of
seedlings from roadside to planting site. Replanting of clearfelled areas
take place one year after felling.
8.        Sawlog Area.  In the sawlog areas, planting is carried by work-
men in the allocated plots. Normal spacing is 2.5 m by 2.5 m. An average
of 14 man-days is required. Replanting of the clearfelled areas take place
two years after felling. A 10% seedling reserve is made to facilitate beat-
ing up of failed seedlings after planting. Complete replacement is unusual
in the sawlog areas.
Surveying
9.        Survey of the planted ares follows immediately after planting has
been completed. Survey data from the field is transferred into 1:10,000
survey sheets plotted from 1:25,000 scale aerial photographs. The survey
section of the Department keeps record of all the surveyed areas. A soil
survey of the Turbo area was carried out by experts from the Kenya Agricul-
tural Laboratories assisted by the officials of the East African Foresty and
Agricultural Research Organization (EAFRO).
Weeding (Table 3)
10.       Pulpwood Area.  In the Turbo area, both manual and mechanical weed-
ing are carried out as follows: manual weeding in the first, second and third
years at seven man-days per hectare and mechanical weeding in the first,
second and third year at two hours per hectare. After the rains in the Turbo
area, weed growth is profuse making such heavy weeding necessary.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
11.       Sawlog Area and Pulpwood Areas Other Than Turbo.  Since trees
interplanted with agricultural crops are grown in worker's plots for the first
three years, weeding is carried out by labor while tending their crops.  No
mechanical or herbicides application is used. Continual weeding on planta-
tions grown on grasslands is necessary for the first three years, particu-
larly where cypress is established. However, P. patula can survive in grass-
lands so long as the grass is not taller than the trees. In these areas,
weeding is particularly necessary to reduce fire danger and also to minimize
rat damage on young seedlings.
Pruning (Table 3)
12.       Pulpwood Area.  No pruning and thining is required in the pulpwood
area. Where fire danger is considered high in young plantations light pruning
may be carried out; otherwise, this is not necessary.
13.       Sawlog.  Pruning of trees intended to provide sawn wood is neces-
sary so as to provide a knot-hole tree timber for better quality. To obtain
this high quality timber, it is necessary to carry out pruning schedules as
follows:
Cypress - five prunings over ten years
Age 2 - all stems
Age 4 - all stems
Age 6 - 533 stems I hectare to 9.25 meters
Age 8 - 533 stems / hectare to 11.25 meters
Age 10 - 533 stems / hectare to 13.75 meters
No other pruning is necessary after age ten.
Pines - four prunings over ten years at
Age 4 - all the stems
Age 6 - all the stems
Age 8 - 711 stems I hectare to 9 meters
Age 10 - 711 stems I hectare to 12 meters
No further pruning necessary after age ten.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Labor requirement,for pruni-g is based on the country's present average of
12 man-days per hectare. The average annual pruning program will be 25,000
hectares.
14.       Thinning.  Thinning is not necessary in pulpwood plantations.  It is,
however, necessary in sawlog plantations. The purpose of thinning plantations
is to increase the value of the final crop. Three thinnings would be carried
out on plantations. The first thinning is hygienic and is intended to re-
move all dying, dead and diseased trees from the plantations. The second and
third thinnings are commercial and provide a financial return to the Govern-
rn,ent while still improving the quality of the final crop. The schedule below
shows the remaining crop after thinning in both pine and cypress plantations
in the project.
CYPRESS
Crop Remaining    Plant Height
e in Years         Plants Established Per Ha  After Thinning         in Meters
0                        1600                 No thinning            -
5                          -                     533                12
10                          -                     355           Top height not
considered
15                                                250           Top height not
considered
PINES
Crop Remaining    Plant Height
Age in Years   Plants Established Per Ha        After Thinning       in Meters
0                   1600                      No Thinning            -
5                     -                           711               12
8                                                 533          Top height not
considered
13                                                 356          Top Height not
considered
15.       The average annual thinning during the Project period would be
4,100 ha. Average annual man-day requirement for non-commercial thinning
and marking of commercial thinning is eight/ha.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Protection
16.       Protection Against Fire.  Fire damage in Kenya can be very high,
particularly during years of severe drought. In 1971 the country lost 19,000
hectares of.forest which included over 2,000 hectares of plantations. It is
therefore necessary that adequate fire portection measures are enforced
during the Project period. In order to ensure strong fire control, the
Department established a fire control section to deal with all fire matters.
17.       Firebreaks.  Firebreaks would be established at a density of 40m
per ha and with a width of 20 m and maintained by early burning and all year
round clearing. Firebreak maintenance in both pulpwood and sawlog plantations
would be carried out both by labor and tractor with a rotary harrow. An
average of 0.12 man-days per hectare would be required.
18.       Protection Against Fungal Diseases.  Dotbistroma pinii has been the
worst fungal disease. As a result, the Department has halted any further
planting of P. radiata which is particularly susceptible to it while studies
continue to find a cheaper method of control. Nursery diseases caused by
Rhizoctonia solani Kuhn and pythium spp. still cause problems. Cypress canker
caused by Monochaetia unicornis (Cooke and Ellis), Armillaria mellea of both
pines and cypress, Diplodia pinea (Desm) have all been present in the Kenya
softwood plantations. The Pathology section of the Department carries out
a continuous field check on these diseases and controls them where possible.
This would continue during the Project period.
19.       Protection Against Insect Pests.  Insect pests of economic impor-
tance in Kenya are the woolly aphids of the general Adelges and Pineus
(Homoptera: Adelgidae) A. pineus was discovered in Rhodesia and in 1969 in
Kenya some 38 species of pines at EAAFRO Muguga were attacked. Since then
the disease has spread over a wide area where P. patula, P. radiata and other
pines have been attacked. The aphids suck the pine juice and retard growth,
and a severe attack can cause death of the trees, although this has not yet
been noticed in Kenya.
B. Road Construction and Maintenance
20.       Under the Project the present road unit based at Timboroa would be
reorganized into two units, one to undertake the roads program West of the
Rift and the other East of the Rift. The roads program included in the Project
would include the construction of primary roads, secondary roads and plantation
access tracks, and the upgrading and construction of a number of service roads.
The proposed annual program for both units is summarized below.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Summary of Annual Road Program
km/year   average density
m/ha
Primary and secondary roads for
new plantations to be established
during Project period                               60          12
Plantation tracks                                  100          20
Service road construction to
new stations and upgrading
some existing roads                                 20          -
Total                             180
21.       Existing Equipment.  The existing equipment, listed below (excluding
workshop equipment which is already adequate for the program) would be absorbed
by these road units.
Summary of Existing Operational Equipment
Item                            Estimated remaining operational
life at 1.1.1975
1 low loader, 20 ton                                         4 - 5 years
1 Massey Ferguson bulldozer (D6 equivalent)                  5,000 hours
1 D.6 Caterpiller                                            6,000 hours
1 Tevex 32:40        it       (D7.5  tr      )               6,000 hours
1 Wakefield motor grade  (120 hp    "        )               8,000  "
1 Champion      11   1    (cat 150 hp "    )                 8,000
1 Cat 14        "    "    (150 hp)                           6,000
1 Front end loader                                           3,000  "
1 Bomeg self-propelled road roller 7-ton                    10,000
1 Bomeg self-propelled road roller 10 "                      6,000
4 Tipper lorries 5/7 ton                                   160,000 km
2 Land rovers                                               60,000  "
22.       New Equipment.  The two units would be equipped with new equipment,
as detailed in the following table, with the existing equipment being distri-
buted between the units to make up the required capacities.
Summary of New Equipment Requirements
1 D.6 Bulldozer with ripper and blade
1 Cat 955 front end loader 115 hp
1 motor grader, 150 hp
3 7-ton tipper lorries
2 Land Rovers LWB



ANNEX 3
Page 7
23.       Building Requirements.  The existing prefabricated buildings of the
present road unit would be utilized for the new units and will be sufficient
for most of the housing and building requirements. Additional buildings
would be required for site offices/workshops and some housing estimated at a
cost of K 3,000/unit.
24.       Annual Operating Costs.  The annual operating costs of machinery
for one unit based on recent actual experience are summarized below:
Item                 Km/hrs/year          Cost/hour or km
K Sh
2 bulldozer                3,000 hours                54
1 front end loader         1,400   "                  43
2 motor graders            3,000   "                  49
4 tipper lorries          70,000  kms                  1.5
2 Land Rovers             35,000   "                   1.1
1 low loader               8,000   "                   3.8
25.       Bridge Building and Culvert Construction.  Each road unit would
have a bridge building team comprising a foreman and ten workmen. In addi-
tion, the units would have specialist employees for culvert construction.
The annual cost of materials for bridge building and culvert construction is
estimated at Ks 3,5OO/unit.
26.       Staff and Labor.  The units would be supervised by the roads en-
gineer stationed in the head office, who would be responsible for the execu-
tion of the work program and allocation of funds. The staff and labor re-
quirements and costs are summarized in the following table:



AfNNEX 3
Page 8
Staff and Labour Requirements and Costs
Staff/Labour Grade                   No.        Annual Cost (Ks)
Headquarters
Superintending road
engineer                               1                 -
Chief Clerk                            1                400
Clerk/Typists                          2                350
Driver                                 1                350
Low Loader driver                      1                400
One Unit Requirements
Road superintendent                    1              1,400
Road foreman                           2                850
Plant operators                        7/2              450
Plant operators helpers
(dozers)              3                 180
Plant greasers                         4                180
Drivers                                6                350
Mechanical foreman                     1              1,200
Welder                                 1                450
Mechanics                              4                450
Mechanics' assistants                  4                200
Bridge building foreman                1                850
Bridge labour                         10                180
Masons                                 2                350
Carpenters                             2                350
Culvert labour                        20                180
Chief clerk                            1                400
Clerks                                 1                350
Storeman                               1                300
Watchmen/messenger                     4                180
Road levellers/tracers/3               2                450
/1   Existing post financed by bilateral funds
/2   Spare driver interchangeable with lorry drivers
/3   Major surveys would be undertaken by surveyor seconded from survey
branch of F.D.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Road Maintenance
27.       Road maintenance in sawlog and pulpwood areas would be carried out
using Forest Department machinery, except for the roads used for pulpwood
logging in Kaptagat and Kipkabus which would be maintained by the Webuye
mill. A grader would be stationed in each of the main Forest Division. (There
are seven graders at present located in the Eldoret, Elburgon, Londiani, Turbo,
Nyabururu, Nairobi and Nyeri Divisions.) During the course of the Project
period it will be necessary to replace each of these graders once.
Road Specification
28.       The specification would be those traditionally used in Kenya and
compare favorably with standards in similar forest roads elsewhere in the
World.
Road Specifications
Road Width     Road Right      Maximum         §Speed  P.
Ridges Slopes      of Way       Gradient       Ridges Slopes
Primary Roads   8M    6M          15M              8%           60      30
Secondary        5-6M  5M         ioM              8%           40      20
Track            4M     -          6M              8%           30      20
29.       Surfacing.  Usually only the primary roads are surfaced.  The sur-
face material is normally murram, which is laterite, commonly available in
Kenya and used for road material. The surfacing is normally 15 cm deep. In
certain exposed places, the secondary roads might be surfaced. If the roads
are used for logging they will be upgraded by the loggers.
29.       Drains.  The side drains are of three different types:  flat
bottomed drains, V shaped drains and mitre drains. They are made by graders,
tractor with a back hoe and by hand labor, respectively.
30.       Bridges.  The bridges are made of wood and concrete and would
normally carry a load of about 20 tons.
C. Buildings
31.       One headquarters office, one new divisional office, four new full
accounting stations and 12 substations would be constructed during the Project.
In addition, some existing staff housing buildings and water supplies will
require replacing. The Department has commenced a program for the replacement



ANNEX 3
Page 10
of forest workmen's houses, presently made from mud and wattle, with improved
houses. So far, about 20% of the housing has been replaced; the Government
intends to replace the remainder over a ten-year period. The Project would
provide for the replacement: of some 1.300 forest workmen's houses phased over
the six-year period. This would be in addition to some 2,000 new workmen's
houses to be constructed in the new stations and substations (Table 6). The
house building program would be undertaken by the Forest Department using
direct labor; costs are based on present day prices.
Building Maintenance
32.       Maintenance of existing building in the Project are and the new
buildings to be constructed by the Project would be carried out by the De-
partment with maintenance teams located in the main stations.
60 teams of:   1 Mason          Ks/year            250
i Carpenter        "              250
3 Laborers         "              540
Materials        "              310
1,350



KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Physical Work Schedule
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6         Total
AFFORESTATION
Nursery (seedlings)                       millions        17.94    17.94    16.20    16.64    16.86    16.86    102.44
Tand Clearing & Preparation                 '000 ha        7.85     8.02      7.93      8.13     8.23      8.23      48.39
Planting                                    '000 ha        6.70     7.50      6.44o     6.40     6.40      6.40      39-.80
Replanting                                  '000 ha        0.70     0.70      1.00      1.20      1.30     1.30       6.20
Survey                                      '000 ha        7.40     8.20      7. 40     7.60      7.60     7.60      45.80
Beating-Up                                  '000 ha       1.00      1.00      0.83      0.85     0.86      0.86       5.140
Weeding                                     '000 na        8,90     8.85      8.65      8.00      7.30      7.50     49.20
Pruning                                     '000 ha      25.00    25.00    25,00    25.00    25.00    25.00    150.00
Thinning                                    '000 ha        4.10     4.10      11.10     14.10     4.10     4.10      24.60
Firebrea.ks Maintenance                     '000 km       5.16      5.44      5.72      5.96     6.24      6.48      35-00
Fire Control                                '000 ha     129.00   136.00   1143.00   149.00   156.00   162.00    875.00
Other Protection                            '000 ha      129.00   136.00   143.00   1149.00   156.0C   162.00   -875.00
FOREST ROAD
Plantation Track Construction                 kh            160      160       160       1060      160      160        960
Service Road Upgrading/Construction            km            20       20        20        20        20        20       120
Access Road Construction (Boni & Lungi)2/   km                5         5                  -         -         -
Road Maintenance                               km         5,800    5,960    6,120    6,280    6,14140    6,600    37,200
BUILDING & IIOUSING
Building                                       N o           95-2/    64        62         8         7         8        243
Staff Housing                                  No.           933'     63        63        27        28        27        293
Labor Housing-                                 No.          893      573       573       423       423       423     3,308
Road Units' Prefab Portable Housing            No.           30         -         -        -         -         -         30
Housing for Sawmaill Trainees                  No.                                         10                  -         10
1/  The construction work io to be carried out by local contractor.
2/  Includes building for the new training sawmill.                            
31  Includes housing (8) for local staff employed under the Studies and Technical Assistance component of the Project.
4/  tncludes housing for stationkeepers, laborers for building and housing and roa.d units, forest workers, and
operatives at the new training sawmill.



KENYA
SE!CONID FORESTRY PIANTATION PROJECT
Manpower Rssirement
Annual Averag__e
Area     Man-days       Man-da         ys Maysha
Total1    Treated    per ha          per ha    of Total Area to
Man-Years      (ha)    Planted        Treated    be Maintained
___  __ 7 0ha)               (145.8oo ha)
LABOR:  Afforestation           Nursery                            1,308       8,540       44.5          40               -
Plantation              Land Clearing & Preparation       1,109       8,060       37.7           36              _
Establishment           Planting                             411.      7,6710     14.0           14              _
Beating-Up                            48         900       1.6           14              _
Survey                              25       "7,670. 1.0                  1
2,901         -                      105               -
Afforestation -        Weeding                               404       8,200         -           12.8           0.7
Plantation              Pruning                           -l,149     25,000          -           12.0           2.1
M aintenance            Thinning                             126      h,lO()                      8.0           0.2
Firebreak Maintenaxnce                52      5,830                       2.0           0.1
Fire Control                          67    1l5,800          -            0,12          0.1
Other Protections                     56    1455800          -            Ol1           0.1
1,85L                     -3.3
Sub Total                                4,7555        -           - 
Road Construction                                            151       6,630        5.1
Proect Managent    Adninistration                         1,456                    49 5
Building & Housing                   626                  21 .3
TotLaL Labor Requirement                 6,988         -        17A.,6
STAFF.  R.oad Construction                                            13       65630        0.4
JircJect Manegement    AdmInxil.tration                     321                   10.9
Total Staff h.equirement                   334                   113             =                          P)f4
Total Annual Average Man-power Requirement                         7,322 =
1/ 'l'he workers are assumcd to work P.61 days per year.
* The Table does not include man-power requireRments for Studies, Technical Assistance and Training components.



KENYA
SECOND FOREC.TRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Plantation Manager2ent Plan
SAWLO_OG                                   PULPIOOD
-o-.7iald/No.ha                                             Yid
Seedlingsi                       Year  .1   1,600                              Year  1    19&00
*  Culling loss                           400                                           200
+  Beating up allowances                   200                                          )AOo
To'bal                               2,200                                         2 bOO         -
Weedi.ng                         Year  3       -                               Year  1-
Year  2       -
Year  3       -
Thinning                         Year  5
Year  8-10                35 m3                    - N        - N -E-
Year 13-15                30 m3
Clear fell                       Year 26                  360 m3               Year 16       -          195 m3
Total Yield over rotation        25 Years                 425 m3               15 Years                195 m3
Mean uainual increment                                     17 m 3                            -           13 m3
H tr



arco,.rYSFkSTNY YLANTAT:OY  O91ST
Exi±ting & P2a180ted Plasting Arnte
ErabltieOn                                    Plinttig Progrm
as a-        Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Total
PU0PWOOD CONSERVANCY      Turbo Div_sion         Turbo/Lugari                             5,000           800        6o-    -                           -          -    '_ 1,4s
Sabot'/'Kit.lalle                        1,300           750       750           -               -                     - ,CC
Eldoret Division      Kaptogat                                 5,S00           350        4C0        400        300        20C        203 r    ,.-
Kapkobeos                                1,700           100        2C0       S00        SDO        SCC         5      2,3CO
Nosth Nandi  (New)                                                              Oc       2      C     O 30   _C_          C 9^C
00>-letal -smanfiirg _6,SOO                                   2,C 2 '  ,000                                  OO  2   , OOC  1,CC v >   ^C
Roprog                                              200 2                 DC              4 0C  6OC
NAK'5RE COKSE-VANCY       Elbur     Eigorer (N-                                                -           7          7                     73         7°         7 w  0     -
3'_- rgor.                               5,70C            25         25         25        25         25         25
Ne£suit/ ereU                 ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~,200  210     2C         21D        2-C        21C        2-^    _,6
L;kia/s-o    r1 i                                                   -S  S     _           SC        lSO        ;C        5
"se- &'" '^.s-.aragoOSiet. gO rga        S,9>0           2C0        2CC       2CC        2CC        2C00
Mol> Ki3_~ge                             2,5^C           _6D       1X       ~50          160  '_0'~            -6        9C6
Dodsi  iv:sor    50r-.e=                                  2,1CC            -CD       'OC        1C         10          ^^         5
Mv:t-L,   c                              2,6LC-           5C         5C         5C        5C         9C.15
Ma agat                                    700            75         757 75
l-dti-i tinl-ad. Masa ...               2,260            14C       _40        140        140        -L0-o8-
Rer-soi' 'nelid. SIt_t5 )                1,70C
Saioo/''o:ne /Korsgeo (N5eu)                              00C       S          S           O         S 00                30C
icr> '50                    too~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s    5           o          0         5
Yericho                                    600           -<C    ~     v       100        lv          OC         ^        60C
/Cheoisos (NewS)__                                                     S          SO         C         SO       2.
ruzo   zns:sn    -aria  YNes-)-1                                                                                           lOC        _C^ 
C' A:e,50       '           5           ewL - - 2C ^   2G 0  2C^  PoO
'.a:^  :a,/"'.^                            -cc,          -20       12_        _20        _2^        120        -^         ,
50-t  .raranet                            300                       I 30                 130                    ,C 553-
!Eorth Xarant                            2,800           350        35.0       35C        _-0       350E        .^2O
O' ~e es'0 s                            5,cCO                        50 3°     30         3C
veta/North Kinsogop                        4>~ >2,600     80         80        SO         IC         EO         5^
Sonargs Dl-isisi>n    Ksa-.44                                                   20 20 2C                         20         20
MSZ'Da-                                    56 3-v0                   5 C       -O         4          4           C       5
Esa-er                                  1,600             -C        _1 L:                 40         0          '-C      2-^
Narasha                                  5,300                       c          sO        800        8C         80       4b
Ch0e--s-so  Nre-)                                   -              2Cv        200        200        20C        200       - 0!
0 'isea (New,,_                                                      60         0o                   6C         lo       jO
2S0b-T.t0l                                     53,8200        2 io         02       2,990      2,990      2,>90     2,950   17,f5v
WEST CONSSRVANCY          N&olsoi Di,-ion '"sco                                           2-                                                 --0
tcrooge                                   530            SO         5C         SO50S0O                                   v
K--gerere                                 -,SO             0o        8c        s          8          Sc          0       3C
Ka-cscrva ,New)                              _             -         0o        '0         7C         7^                    C
So- Nards                                1,2Cv 
Xitale ;'vi0 o'        Nor, M . 3_gon,/9r                      2, 50             O         70        4 
C ie 00                                     300          lO                   10C        100
046C          4C         40         4C         40         -
Kapeng_ ria                                200            25    S     O         25                   25
Kisuou Divisio_        Wisr                                       470            92       96v         50                     0'
arb cwe2000                                              90         9C        309
Sob-_ot3_                                      19,160         1,l05       ,S_S      1,435
5152 CCY.SERV4ACY         Nyori C`islox                 ' /  'o_.e                          58L 45                                          45
.. a _ _ /g , , CO _~~~~~~~~~0                           60;                   6 6^ , 
:'cage/oa--e   9          5C 3v 10   3 C 530                                nO    -     > ................9..  ''
oe-u/incoilLl   5,001~~~~~~~~3C             5            ~
.K_ana.-g-/c_ "-. hga                    1,4'0            23  25    2            5                   25
Er>,0   '0noo         \Or'/tege/Oinere                         1,400            5          v           55
0'o" - /-ni/osweti/Ooonie                 94o     25       25   25                       25          -
Nairvbi Division      Gatore                                       040                                4          -^  
K' '00000-00 
ir .kia                                 _, 600            40         40
Kaase/XierijRe-ia                        3,2C0            70         7          0         70         -_2
er/Ki e                                      o            20         2C                   2C                              2
glarcs                                  1,002            70         70                   70
Machako's 3ivision   rMakli                                      ,30             55         H          S         55                             S3
Kuit                                       62,5 0                    50         SS        S          55         Sz
Sc _259,i65      80         3o        e 40       84- 0      8! m'o
COAST  OONSERVANCY         Coast .rsirn                                                     t8o            80         80 S                             8C 
_200            02        '02        75         72
Goeieiilori                                 10            10         _C         10        10         10         ::,       .
l-re Divisio-         latu                                        45
Sut-'otaL                                       1,935           -6o         6          6          65 6'S               cv       ^v,
Idotl Sowrlon.g Plantation                _c4,oKo         4,576      5,5o4      5,43C     5,14o                          31,33C
Sowlog Reg'anting                             _             503        530        60C        b0O       703        700    ?,6Cv
,rond ctaol Planting                                                                          120,580          6,570     7,5LC      6,40o      c,130      6,43o      6,430   39,830
Grand Trtal Pla-ting.pluc  Repl-tbog                                                              _           7,270      8,24o     7,430      7,63o      7,730      7,73v   46,c30



ANNEX 3
Table 5
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Vehicle & Equipment Requirements
Unit Cost Total Cost
Number ------(K ShoOC)--
AFFORESTATTON/F'O2EST ROADS/PROJECT MANAGEMNFNT
Bul1dozer (0-6 size with ripper and blade)       4         568        2,270
Front-end loader (115 HP, 2 cu. yd. bucket)    2           484          97G
IIotor grader (15n HP)                          12         345        4,14c0
Tractor (60-65 HP)                              10          53          530
Tractor (85 HP)                                   8         83          660
Low loader (chassis)                             1         328          330
7-ton tipper lorry                               6          96          580
5-ton lorry                                     65          70        4,55D
3-ton lorry                                      40         58        23,20
Fire truck                                       4         106          420
Stationary engine (12 HP, diesel)               60          13          780
Portable water-pump (6-8 HP)                    12           9          11
Saloon car (2,000 cc)                            1          53           50
Station wagon                                    1          49           50
4-Wheel drive (LWB)                            107          53        5,670
Miscellaneous tools                                                   2 ,70
Sub-Total
STUDIES/TECHNI,,AL ASSISTANCE/TRA INNG
5~-ton truck                                     1          70           70
Pick-up (J4WD)                                   2          53          106
Tractor (with winch)                                        83           83
Power urrit  1830 Hp, diesl',                    1          76           76
Circular saw (36" with caLle-drawn carriage)   I           1            114
3 ft 3and resaw wutg benrc:.                      2         46           92
Multiple edger                                   1          78           78
Saw doctor's equipment                            -          -
Shafts, bearings, pulleys, belts                 -           -           38
Cut off saw single blade                          -          -7
Power saws with spares                            -                       4
Logging hand tools                                -          -
Spares (10'/ of machinery cost)                   -          -           43
4-Wheel drive (LWB)                               9         53          477
Sub-Total                                                       1 ,21



Table 6
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Building & Housing Requirements-/
Nurmber    Unit Cost     Total Cost
---    (K Sh'OOO)-------
3UILDINGS
Project Headquarte:-s Office Block              1        273              273
Nursery                                        21         29              609
Water Supply                                   44         33            1,)452
Conservancy/nivlsio n OIffioe i4                          26              104
Station/Substation Ofioe                       I 7        12              2C4
School                                         16         19              304
Dispensary                                      6          6.6            106
Store (General)                                22          6.6            145
Store (Fael)                                   16          2,2             35
Garage (Division)                               2          2 3
Garage (Station/Sub-stationj                   20          9,2            1884
Shop                                           32          5,8            t86
Fire Tower                                     32          5.4            173
3, 780
HOUSlING
High Cost Staff Housing                        25        145            3,625
Moderate Cost Junior Staff Housing            123         29            3,567
T                               I 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Low Cost Hous4>g                            3,35          11            1, 5971
Labor Housin/ '                             35300          4,2         13,860
Prefabricated Housing  ?Po-taable)p/           30          )4 2           126
22577 3
Total                                                                       26 553
1/  The Table excludes building and housinrg requirements for the Studies,
Technical Assistance and Training components of the Pro1ect.
2/ For use by the Road Units while on tze move.
3    ThisAincludes 25030 new and 1,270 imDroved houses.



A!INIFX 4
Page 1
KENTYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLAN1TATION PROJECT
Organization and Management
General
1.        The Government's forestry programs are planned and implemented by
the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Natural Resources. The organization
of the Department is shown in the Chart. The Department has a staff of about
1,800 of whom 37 are graduate forestry officers, 1120 diplomate foresters,
200 forest rangers, 1,000 forest guards, and the rest clerks, drivers, etc. 1/
For purposes of administration, the country is divided into 5 Conservancies,
15 Divisions and about 100 Forest Districts.
2.         The 37 graduate forest officers currently in post are all overseas
trained. The Department is up to full strength in its graduate officer re-
quirement.  Since 1962 diploma grade foresters (sub-professionals) have been
trained at Egerton College, and in recent years about 20 have graduated each
year.  As there is now no shortage of these officers, the Egerton course has
been discontinued. The Forestry Training School at Londiani trains both forest
rangers and foresters.
3.         The Forest Industrial Training Center (FITC) in Nakuru offers training
for sawmill work (logging, saw doctoring, mill engineering and sawmill manage-
ment). The mill operates sponsor the students, paying only living costs.
There is an urgent need to make this service available to small saxmill
operators who are unable to take advantage of the facilities at Nakuru. The
Forest Department has started a small project to do this, working in close
conjunction with the Industrial and Cormercial Development Corporation (ICDC)
Xz->ich makes loans to small sanwiill business operators.  However, the Department
is short or staff for t1<iq n1'rnse.
4.        The Forest Denartment researches both silvicultural and forest
industrial problems. Its research program broadly reflects appropriate
-riorities   F;\PJiRO (The vast Af rican Agriculture and Forestry Research
.;-gsnization) based in 'luguga carries out longer-term research of common
irtterest to the three Past African countries, such as entomological and
TmycologiJal diseases.  Itt  current research on forestry economies is deficient
and should be strengthened.
1/   The numraber cf adrinistrati-ie and technical staff in industrial planta-
tions is hi1gh compared with many other rountries.  The Forest Department
e.-p,-lns this mainly on the grounds that forestry staff have a number of
other functions apart from the direct supervision and management of the
industrial plantations.  These include management of the indigenous
Drctection forests, collection of grazing fees and extension work in
adjacent farming areas.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Public Expenditures and Revenues
5.        Total public expenditure on forestry was about K Sh 45 million in
the fiscal year 1973/74, thus exceeding the current Devlopment Plan estimates
o-sderably.  The main items accounting for this increase are the expanded
ru ral afforestation scheme, the Cost of purchasing additional agricultural
land for the Turbo pulpwood afforestation project and additions to the Porest
Industrial Training Center. The plantation schemes account for about 50) of
total forest expenditures.
6.        Revenues derived from sales of timber, firewood and poles from
Government forests amounted to approximately K Sh 3.6 millioil in 196S aid are
expected to rise to K Sh 7.0 million in 1974. Revenues from Government logging
and sawimilling operations are estimated at an annual K Sh 10 million during the
current Plan period; if attained, this would cover the cost of the Forest
Industrial Training Centre's logging, sawmilling and training operations.
7.        The total direct revenue received from the sale of Government
forest products is less than Government expenditure in the sector by about
K Sh 40 million per annum (at current levels). The Government's intention
is to make its royalty revenues cover both its capital investment and main-
tenance expenditures on forest plantations.
8.        Foreign Assistance.  An IDA credit of US$2.6 million in 1969 helped
finance the current afforestation program aimed at establishing about 24,000
ha of industrial plantations in 1970-75. The credit became effective in 1970
and disbursement is likely to be completed by 1975. During the last five
years Kenya received technical assistance from Canada, New Zealand and Sweden.
A Canadian team carried out a forest inventory of the indigenous and exotic
plantation areas, and estimated present and future volumes of wood likely to
be available. Canadian assistance included a training component for local
forest inventory and survey specialists. The New Zealand industrial training
program provided experts to assist in setting up the Department's Forest
Industrial Training Centre and initiated the operations of the Department's
logging unit. Training was given to local logging and sawmill operators.
A Swedish mission evaluated the overall forestry development program. It
made various recommendations for re-orientation of the afforestation program
towards industrial development, and discussed marketing problems which may
arise as a result of possible overproduction of sawlogs. An FAO mission
assisted the Government in preparing a loan request to the Bank for financing
of the afforestation project. FAO also prepared a report on the technical
and economic feasibility of the fiberboard plant now under construction; it
also assisted in the technical development of the plywood industry and carried
out studies on export market prospects for sawn lumber.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Project Organizati7on
9.        Project management would be under the control of a Project Ilanager
located in the Ministry headquarters in Nairobi. For administrative purposes
the Project is organized into 5 Conservancies, 14 Divisions, distributed geo-
graphically as shown in the chart. The Project Manager would be responsible
for:
a)   physical execution and administration of the project;
b)   investigation of the most economic plantation methods;
c)   the preparation and execution of budgets and cost control
data for the project plantations.
10.       The Project Manager would report directly to the Chief Conservator.
The activities in the field conservancies outside the Project would be con-
trolled by a Conservator of Management Services and Research who would also
have the administrative responsibilities for the field conservator.
11.       The Project Manager would be assisted for two years by an inter-
nationally recruited forect economist who would be responsible for the Socio-
Economic Study (Appendix 1). The deputy project manager would be the counter-
part of the forest economist. A Project accountant would be responsible
for accounting and cost control. The Project would be a self accounting
unit within the Forest Department.



ANEYX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Scope of Proposed Socio-Economic Study
1.        The Forest Department has at present more workers than will he
needed in the future. This is in part due to the historical role of the
Department as a source of relief employment. The considerably increased
wage cost warrants a closer look at the level of labor intensity, which
might establish that fewer workers are needed. In the areas where new
planting is completed the employment problem would be further aggravated.
A potential problem exists in the forest villages where the children of
forest workers would find it difficult to obtain employment in the remote
forest areas.
2.        Labor housing is a large component of the Project (Annex 3).  A
low-cost housing specialist would review the standards, building material
and cost of such houses.
3.        The administrative cost of the Forest Department are high compared
to similar costs in other countries. One reason is the creation of the posts
of Assistant Conservator of Forests which was designed to train young pro-
fessionals for more senior positions, but which is now no longer warranted.
A proliferation of conservancies has also taken place lately which adds to
the administrative costs.
4.        An internationally recruited forest economist would be attached to
the Project Headquarters for 2 years to review the labor and staff situation.
He would specifically review:
a)   the possibilities of introducing more efficient organizational
and operating methods developed during the first phase project
into all activities covered under the Project,
b)   planting and silvicultural methods;
c)   alternative sources of pulpwood supplies for the W%ebuye pulp and
* and paper mill;
d)   possibilities of employment creation in forest-related activities
to absorb excess labor;
e)   together with a sociologist, the sociological implications of
of future changes in the employment structures in the forest
sector;



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
f)   the supply and demand situation for fuelwood over the next
20 years.
5.         A sociologist recruited domestically would be attached for six
months to the forest economist to investigate the sociological aspects of the
study.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FOREST PLANTATION PROJECT
Coastal Trial Plantations and Development
Arabuko Sokoke Forest Reserve
1.        During the Project period the plantations trials in the Arabuko
Sokoke forest reserve would be increased. The Arabuko Sokoke forest extends
over some 40,000 ha and has an established forest station at Cede and a sub-
station at Jihori. In addition to the Arabuko Sokoke Forest Reserve, there
are four County Council forests in the vicinity of Arabuko Sokoke which could
be made available for reforestation. These areas could be gazetted as forest
reserves under the Forest Department. The physical features of these areas
with respect to topography, rainfall and soil-types broadly resemble those
of Arabuko Sokoke.
2.        The Arabuko Sokoke indigenous hardwood has been fully exploited for
merchantable timber over the last 50 years. Natural regeneration of the
valuable timber species has not occurred.
3.        The Forest Department initiated a species trials program in 1970
with the objective of determining suitable species and establishment techniques
for saw-timber, poles and fuel, and pulpwood. The trials so far have indicated
the high potential of th,e area for fast growing tree crops. The species trial
plots so far established extend over about 20 hectares. The Project would
include an expansion of the trial blocks to a program of 40 ha per year. These
would include a continuation of the trials with the present species which
have shown high potential, using a variety of establishment techniques;
fertilizer trials; provenance trials of these species; and trials with new
species. A soil survey would be carried out and the program would include
an assessment of charcoal yields from the indigenous forests and the develop-
ment of detailed establishment costs of new plantations.
4.        The physical program and costs of the soil survey and trials pro-
gram are summarized in Table 1. The NORAD contribution to the present trials
will expire in 1975 and the project trials would follow this program in 1976.
5.        The Arabuko Sokoke Forest Reserve is a unique ecological type and
has some rare species of flora and fauna not found elsewhere in the country.
An area of about 10,000 ha now being preserved by the Forest Department as
a nature reserve should be formally gazetted in the near future.



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 2
Page 2
Boni and Lungi Forests
6.        Trial plantations will also be established in the Boni and Lungi
forests situated in the Coast region about 400 km north of Arabuko Sokoke.
These forests are in the process of being gazetted as Forest Reserves. These
forests contain significant quantities of merchantable timber which is used
by the wood carving industry.



2EMYA                          AN.TmX 8!
Table 3
SECOND FOP~ TRY 7?I0TAr7ATi3N PROJECT-,
Physical Program and Costs - Arabuko Sokoke Trials
'975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
Physical Programme
1. Low Density Soils Survey
in extension areas(Ha.)        60000
2. Selection of Jature ieserve
with Arabuko-SokokeFR(Ha)   10000 20000
3~ aazettement of ½ctension
areas (Ha.)                  40o0o  60000
. Trial Plantations (Ha.)                        hO         40        ho         4C 0o
5. Soil Survey in areas for
plantation development (Ha.)                6coo       6000      6000       6CCG       600C
Costs K Sh '000
1. Low Density Soil Survey
. sanple/0CC ha
1/2 year Forester m X Sh 20.8    13.4
1/2 year 2 Fiald Ae~sis.
@    Sh 3.O/each                 3.3
Sampling Co>sts 63C0  Z : hu 20    7120
Tools and Stores                   4.6
S  b-tcvaL    40.O
2, Sol Sampling   I rlan- ng
area 1 sample/10 ha                          40.0        0.         .       43.3      4^,
3  Trial Plantations 9   Sh 4000/ha            160.0      160.c     160.0    16c3,      160c0
Total Costs               aon-0      200.0     200.0      200.0    23C.3      23-3.3
= = ==   =  ===  ==== = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =



ANNEX 5
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
1.        The Project cost estimates are based on April 1975 prices.  Labor
and machinery requirements are based on past experience in the ,First Phase
Project (1969-1975).
2.        The Project would require an average of 6,988 laborers per year,
of which 4,755 are forest laborers. The weighted average wage of the forest
laborers is K Sh 3,310 per year. This assumes that on the average a forest
laborer works 261 man-days a year for which he receives a full year's payment.
Detailed breakdowns of manpower requirement, staff and labor, is given in
Annex 3, Table 2. For the purpose of present analysis "staff" has been
defined as persons employed at Ranger level and above in Project administration,
and persons in supervisory positions (including road, mechanical, and bridge
building foremen) in Road Units.
3.        Equipment costs are based on quoted prices in Kenya and they in-
clude taxes and duties, where applicable, amounting to 17% of total equipment
cost.
4.        Building and housing components account for 12% of Project cost.
Details are given in Annex 3, Table 6.
5.        A physical contingency calculation of 10% has been applied to
construction costs of roads, buildings and housing (excluding labor costs),
and equipment.
6.        The price escalations used for the Project cost estimates are as
follows:
Civil Works   Equipment   Salary/Wages
1975                    16%          12%            -
1976                    14%          10%            10%
1977-79                 12%           8%            8%
1980-85                 10%           7%            7%



ANNEX 5
Page 2
In view of the recent substantial increase in the daily wage rate from K Sh 4
to K Sh 12.68, no further increase has been assumed for the first year of the
Project. The price escalation corresponds to 28% of the Project cost.
7.        The total Project cost, based on the calculatiors above, is estimated
at K Sh 396.5 million (US$55.5 million). The foreign exchange component is
USS12.9 million, 23% of total Project cost. Wages and salaries ac.ccount for
about 60% of the Project cost. The yearly Project costs are shown on Table 1.



ANNEX 5
!LENYA                                                                                                                                     Tabl. 1,
,,?(',OIID ORESTRY PLL12A IONPIIO,IC'
L111  Wc-m' I
VFAR                             YFAR 2                           'iWR 3                                                                                              YEAR 6                              TOTAL
L.-I   F- ig.   T.t.1            Lo-1   P.teig.   T.t.]            L ... I   F-eiga   Total         J-.1   )F-big.   T.t.1            L ... 1   F- iej,   T.t.]        L.-I   P ... ig.    T.t.1          L ... I               T.t.1
&F.FOPESTATIO.N                                              16,058                i6,058    16,160            -    16.160    15.448                  15' 448   15.604                 15,604    15,610                  15,610    15, 645            -    15,645    94,525                  94,525
Lab-                                                                                                                                         1A           i6                    51,                                                     3
Mathi-  Op.rati,Ig C..t                             jl        113        161                    )09        L6         34         80                                                       7          )8                     8           8         26        i6o        3'6        536
V:hile Op-.ti.g C..t                              99 2     2,314       3,306        992      2,315      3,307         992     2,314      3,306         92      2, I I    3,307         992     2,31"       3,306        992      2,115       3,307      5,952    11, 807    19,839
F tLili e & T..1,I                                 24 8       187        43         248        187        435         224        161)       393        230        1          404        233         176                    2,31       176        409      1,416      1,069       2,485
S.b-T.t.1                                 17'v6       P,(I4    i 9, g6o    14,447    ,,6ii   po,oB    16, c)qB        2,563   19,261    L6,84p                    19,369    I.4,872      2")(8    I 9 IT)o    16,8.(B      2,5(9   '19,387   102,(55    15, 3I?  I L't, ?;Pr,
R..d Co' tt"tti_T
loRr T
Staff & J,.b.r                                   I, (b'I         -      1,063      1,061-.         -     1,064      1,063           -     1,063      1,064                  1,064      1,063           -      1,063      1,064           -      1,064      6,381                    38)
M..bi.e Gp-ti? C..t                                           783      1 , I 1-   .335         783     J , L18       335        '(83     1,118        335        78:3       '118        335        783      1,n8          335        783      I.,118      2,010      4,698      6,708
W.rf'h.p R ... lag (;..t                                       3         65         32          33         65         33         32         65         32         33          65         33         12          65         32         33          65        195        J95         399-
T-1. &                                               II         11         2         11          II         22         11         II         22         11         11          22         11         11          22         II         11          22         66         66         132
Offi-  R-11g C-L                                                a         1. 3       35           8         2,3        35          8         43         35           8         43         35          8         43          35          8         43         210         48        258
Blidge & 0,1-rt M-tlli-l                            11)        30        I,,?       121          31       J52         122         30        152        121         3i        152         122         30        152        121          31        152         729        IF13       M
R..J                                                      I W,       43        617        188   __439            621        193        450        643        196        45 8       654         201        461)       670         206        480        686      1,169       2,728      3,8,-7
S,b,T.t.1                                  I "(511    I'2'A    -'M"        I."(86     1,305      3,(9L    ),7P        1,3i4      3, InIS                i          3,118      1,801)      11T3 3       133      1'8oll    1,396        3,1-50    10,76o         9.i 8    i8,678
PROTECT MANAGEMENT
Staff & Lab-                                    0.8 1'          -    12,835    12,835             -    19,835    12,835                 12,835    L2,UY)                  12,835    12,835                  12,835    12,835            -    12,835    77,010                   77,010
OfIi-  R.-i.g C.tt                                  lb/         39        206        167          39       206         167         3g        206        167         39        206         I(17        39        206         167         39        206      1,002         231,     ),236
vMi.l Op-ti.8 C-t                                  "I    1,172       1,960        588      1,372      1,960         599     1,397      1,996         6oo      )'"7       1,997         599      I, -,-- 7  1,996         600      1,397      1,997      3,574                 11,906
B"ildiag & 11-.i.g:
C-t-ri-  mt-i.l                                  4, 1 N,       815    /" 9-Ig      2,927        578    ?"505        2,927         578     3'.505      1,109        219      1,328       1,108        2        1,327      I'm           219      1,328    13,304        2,628    15,932
C...t-ti.. Lab-                                  3, 2'I,         -      1,292      7,337           -     2,337      2,337           -     2,337         885           -       835        865                   885         8P5           -       885    10,621             .    10,621
M.i"t- ... a Mat.'i.]                               253        206        459        252         207        459        253        206        459        252        207         4S9        25n        206         459        252        207         459      1,515      1,2 _v)    2,954
M.i.t..al-  L.b.r                                1,                   -.1 248      1,248                 I L48      1,              -     1,20        1,248                 1,248       1,248           -     11248      1,248            -     1,248       7488           -     7,488
S.b-T.t.1                                 22,507      2,432    24, 939    20,354        2,196    22,SSO    20,366        2,220    22,586    17,096         I'8b2    18,958    17,095        11861    18,911(l   17,096        1,862    18,958  114,514    12,433  126,947
I'vi       6, Im      7,677         920     3,34    /" IV         925      3,358      4,283         95t)    3,189      4,139          781    3,993        2,6 /4'       /82     1,893      2,675       5,899    19,/03    25,602
5IUDTEI, T,CIINICAL kS3TST NCE & TRIALS                                                                                                   786        786                                                                 '(B(                  785         785        85-3    5,557
I""d 11-  & C.t.h.-t St'dy                                713      1,6p 3     I ")81          -        (86        '(FIC,
S.'i.E .. 0.1 St'dy                                     281        543        P,!ll,     123        372        1.95          -          -                                                                                                                -        404         91      ),319
A 1.La-          t. S-,il I i.g 1.d-ty             64      1,1',9     1,602        310      1,007      1,317         308      1,008      1,316        17,          1. I      214         173         ',I       211,       1/3                                                   5,077
T-hdg Sa-ill                                       bb(        801      1,467        220          /18       268        220         48        268        220         1, b       268         220         6 s       268        220          48        268      1,760      1 '(' 1    2'so
A-b,,k. S.kk.                                        32          W         42         191         21        7.12       192         21        213         19t         1        212         192         21        213         19i         21        212         989        115      1, I 01,
2 ')6       /H        334         83   -  _19           102        120         26        144        121          98        349        121          n         Illg       121          28        149        822         205      1,027
S.1,-T.t.1                                                       (")t'o        W7       2, 6 3     3,3 8")       P49      1,887                                       i,6pg         '106       ly")     i 630        7Q)         )24     1,6I1q      6,1oB    IA, I-i6    J.'(,P44
i6,yo,   6,,        i I 434    I          5,o3   4n,6.,i    I I, 3)4,'   )-L, 563    37,-'bJ              47,'i3   37,22        8,51)                 37,P65       8,534    45,799  239,336    06,,,PO  30-5,856
CONTTMENCIFS                       2/                                                             438                                                    919                                                                 54)         !I       aO                   R, 321     PA79          19J
phi'--I                   -                             wl                  i,6oo                    46'(       906        439        1180                                         687        "112        '93                                       54p
F-Ilt!"   V                                                           -P 28     22-98    -P,          7,_L23                               j    1 ,-72 ',                           _         I
2.!(L3     3Lt(],                                                                        012L    19
52-   5 866  2               62 524  2289(  85
S,,b. T.t.1                                                                 'j,73-                 8,728      9,54P      4,J83    13"(23    1 I, j "h    )i '(56    I6,739   15,927         ),I 1',   P          -L9,767      6,.I64   25,931    64,845    25,'(6v    go, ISIP
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                              op    I 9, 4,1               )"(.170    I 4,,),,, i   6 l, 761   (D, 16,   15,5P3   65,686    49,361    1) 58P   (13,943   53,15a.   13,65),   6(,805    57,032    14,698   '(1,730  3o4,18i    SY2,P87  396,)I68
.j/  Th P-J-t                  f 1  f  alad-  y- 19/5,  f 1976-130,
2/  c.1-1at.d at 10% -  t..d                          b,Iildj.g -d 1,.-ibt --1 -It i-, a.d  q.ip-wi,
3/ CIII-I.ted .. .1b.- i. A.- , pata. 6.



KENIYA                                       Annex 6
Table 1
Second Forestry Plantation Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
US$1000
Bank Group                       IDA  Credit                         Bank  Loan
Fiscal Year
and Quarter             In Quarter       Cumulative            In Quarter      Cumulative
Ending
1975/76
September
December
March                       800             800
June                      1,100           1,900
1976/77
September                 1,200           3,100
December                 1,100            4,20 0                   _
March                       900           5,100
June                        900           6, 000
1977/78
September                   500           6,500
December                    500           7,100
March                       800           7,800
June                        800           8,600
1978/79
September                   600           9,200
December                    600           9,800
March                       200          10,000                   1100            LCD
June                                                            1,100           1, 50C
1979/80
September                                                       1,100           2,600
Decermber                                                      1,100            3,700
March                                                           1,200           L1,900
June                                                            1,200           6,100
1 980/81
September                                                         900           7,000
Decermber                                                         900           7,900
March                                                             900           8,800
June                                                              500           S , 3 CO
1981/82
September                                                         600           9,900
December                                                          100          10,000



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Production, Markets and Prices
The Project Planting Program
1.        The proposed Project would over six years plant a total of 46,000
ha of which 38,000 ha would be used for sawlogs and the balance of 8,000 ha
for pulpwood representing the total industrial plantation program of the
Forestry Department over the period. The pulpwood planting program is based
on the supplementary raw material requirements of the Webuye mill which has
a rated initial capacity of 54,000 ADMTA. If during the course of the Project
it was decided to expand the capacity of the Webuye mill, a shift of the
planting program in favor of a higher proportion of pulpwood planting could
be made. For the purpose of this report however it has been assumed that
any additional pulpwood demand to meet a possible expansion of the mill would
be met by eucalyptus and wattle and if needed by a further planting program
after the Project period.
Sawlog Yields, Production and Markets
2.        On the basis of experience from the first phase project and other
Kenya plantations, it has b5en estimated that a mean annual increment under
bark (MAI ub) of about 17 m /ha/year for sawlogs on a twenty-five year cycle
can be achieved. This growth is in line with that of similar plantations in
other parts of Eastern Africa. The spacing used would average about 1,600
trees per ha.  While Pinusp__a yields are higher (by about 10-20%) than
yields from cypress. sound management and disease control dictates that a
balanced softwood plantation program should be implemented. Accordingly about
80% of the sawlog plantations would be cypress.
3.        The Project would also carry out further development of 120,000 ha
of plantations already established through weeding, pruning and thinning.
Apart from the commercial yields which would be derived thereby (from prunings
and thinnings) these cultural practices contribute importantly to the yields
assumed in para 2 above. In the case of sawlogs, the absence of weeding would
reduce yields by about 10% due to a lower survival rate, lower crop vigour in
the early years and malformation by creeper strangulation. Without pruning a
lower quality product would result in a 45% loss of stumpage revenue, based
on the current differential in stumpage between pruned and unpruned logs.
Without thinning, a 10% loss of yields would result as a higher proportion of
logs would fall within a lower diameter class.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        Based on existing plantations (and their subsequent replanting after
clearfelling) and proposed Project plantings, the estimated volume of sawlog
availability is detailed in Table 32. This availability also includes an
estimated production of 150,000 m (ub) per annum from the exploitation of
indigenous forests. This table shows that total sawlog availability estimated
on the balis of the expected plantation maturity, would increase from about 3
500,000 m (ub) annually for the remainder of the 1370's to about 1 million m
during the period 1980-85, and about 1.6 million m annually through the end
of the century. From the year 2001, total sustained yield from 136,000 ha of
sawlog plintations is estimated at about 2.5 million m annually (including
150,000 m (ub) from indigenous forests)3of which sawlog planting under the
Project would yield about 2.0 million m (ub) annually during the years 2001-6.
It is emphasized that this estimate of sawlog availability is capable of con-
siderable adjustment (by advancing or retarding clearfelling) to match Kenya's
production (milling) capacity which in turn will be related to domestic and
export market potential.
5.        Estimates of production capacity must also be regasded as somewhat
theoretical. As of 1974 sawlogs sales had been at 340,000 m (ub) (Table 4)
reflecting both inefficiencies and some lack of capacity in the sawmilling
industry. For purposes of comparison with-sawlog availability, produciion
capacity is estimatei to increase by about 10% annuilly from 400,000 m (ub)
in 1975 to 620,000 m (ub) in 1980 and 2.5 million m (ub) in the year 2000
(Table 1) (although in practice intake capacity could be expected to increase
stepwise reflecting the introduction of new facilities).
6.        Detailed estimates of the projected domestic market and export
potential were made under the first phase project.  These show that the
domestic market requirement for the year 2000 would be 640,000 m of saln
timber which, at a conversion factor of 35% would require 1.8 million m (ub)
(Table 4). At a conversion factor of 45% which should be achievable and
should be aimed for, the sawlog equivalent would be 1.4 million Cub). Thus,
at the higher conversion rate, Kenya would by the year 2000 have the equivalent
of a maximum of 1.1 million (ub) available for export.
7.        Projections of export potential indicate that Kenya should have no
difficulty in selling the balance of its estimated production abroad. Imp9rt
requirements of the Middle East alone have been estimated at 3-4 million m
(ub) roundwood equivalent by 2000 of which Kenya's export potential would
represent a maximum of only 30%. Additionally market forecasts indicate good
export potential to Europe though this would critically depend on Kenya being
able to improve the quality of its sawntimber products.
8.        The pulp and paper mill at Webuye would require about 300,000 m3
(ub) to supply the mill at an output of 54,000 ADMTA. The existing planta-
tion planted for pulpwood use of sawlog plantations earmarked for such use



ANNEX 7
Page 3
would be sufficient to cover the pulpwood demand up to 1990. The 8,000 ha
planted under the Project would cover the demand from 1991-1996. The Project
plantation would complete the 24,000 ha needed to supply the continuing
pulpmill needs. The Webuye mill management is currently investigatinig the
possibilities of using eucalyptus and wattle as additional sources of raw
material. This would release corresponding quantities of pine wood for
other purposes, i.e. for sawlogs. The Webuye mills estimated production at
54,000 ADMTA compares with an estimated domestic demand for paper and paper
products of 74,000 tons in 1975, 110,000 tons in 1980 and 435,000 tons in
2000.
Stumpage Rates
9.        Royalty (stumpage) rates for various tree species in 1974/75 are
as outlined in Table 6.  Stumpage rates for plantation sawlogs according to
diameter classes are as follows:
Cypress           Pine3
K shim_        K Sh/m
less than 240 mm mid-diameter /1       11.40          10.56
240 mm to 319 mm            16.73          15.49
340 mm to 399 mm            22.53          20.86
400 mm to 479 mm            33.63          31.12
480 mm to 559 mm            40.13          37.14
560 mm and over             45.24          41.87
/1   These rates apply to all unpruned logs regardless of diameter class.
The rates for plantation species represent the maximum levels under existing
Forest Rules. Stumpage rates for plantation logs have been increased annually
since 1970 at a compound rate of 10% in accordance with agreement signed under
the first phase project. Because of inflation the stumpage rates now being
changed are significantly below cost and international prices and should be
increased in order that Kenya's industrial forest plantations can be establi-
shed on a financially self-sustaining basis.
10.       An agreement signed between Panafrican Paper Mills at Webuye and
the Forest Department on 29 Jung 1970 stipulated that the Degartment would
provide not more than. 340,000 m and not less than 210,000 m of pulpable



ANNEX 7
Page 4
timber in each calendar year over 31 years. The following stumpage rates
have been agreed between the two parties.
K Sh 7.05 per m  from commencement of operation until four
years3after start of commercial production of pulp, K Sh `O.60
per m for the next three years and K Sh 14.10 for the next
three years. For each period of five years during the remainder
of the term the rates will be determined by agreement between
the Forest Department and the Licencee for a five year period.
These stumpage rates which were agreed upon before the upsurge in world pulp
prices are clearly lower than the financial value and considerably below the
economic value of wood. Consideration should therefore also be given to
their increase at an appropriate time.
April 10, 1975



KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Estimated Sawlog Availability, Production Capability, Domestic Sawlog and Sawn Timber Demand
Estimated       Estimated/       Balance         Balance
Estimated        Prod-action       Sawlog          Domestic         Sawlog          Sawn Tinber
Sawlog           Capability        Domestic        Sa-wn Timber     Available       Equivalent
Avail ab-il Ity                    Demand          Equivalent       For Export      For -Eport
000 .3(L)nb     '000 rn3(rD  _ 9u                                 '00Q m3(3s)
1975                 5)42              4O0               451           158               (51)
1980               Io08)4              620              609            213                11              4
1985               1,601               870               805           282                65             23
1990               1,575             1,220             1,068           374               152             53
1995               1,672             1,720             1,394           488               326            114
2000               3,678             2 ,420            1,823           638               59g7           209
2005               2,500             2,500              n.a.                            n.a.
:1/ Baed on an actual conversion factor between roundwood and sawnwood of 35%.



KENYA
'KETYA                                       '~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 7
SECMM FORESmRY 'L4NT='A   PRO0ECT                                            Table 2
Projections of Sawlog Availability From Sawlog Circle and Indigenous Forest (n3 000 under bark)
Year   Volume from       New        Total Area          Volumes from new planting2/                             Estimrated
plnig-
plantations   Planting          of        17 year thin. 22 year 3thin clear fe;l            Total       Exploitation        Total
established       (ha)      plantations   at 83 m-/ha  at 48 r.3/ha  at 370 rim/ha  Plantations  from indigen-  Availability
up to 1967i/                   (ha) 17                                                     Volume      ous forest
196S   (61,910 ha)    4,940            66,850
69                    4,640          71,490
1970        260          3,490         7L,980                                                         260            150              410
71        260         4,850          79,83C                                                         260            150              410
72        260 c,86o                  84,680                                                         260            150             ,;10
73        ?60         0,850          89,530                                                         26             15010
74        260         0,850          94,3P0                                                         260            150              L0O
75       392          4,570          93,950                                                         392            1I5 5602
76        392         5,560         104,490                                                         392            150              5_2
77        392         5,430         109,92C                                                          9210                          62
7P        392         5,430         115,350                                                         392            150              52
79        392         5,430         120,780                                                         392            '50             502
1980        934         5,430         126)210                                                         534            150            1,080
S1        93'                                                                                       934            150           1,080
&2        934                                                                                       934            150           1,08c
83        934                                                                                       934            150           1,08c
S4        934                                                                                       93L           150            1,080
S5     ',0)1o410                                                                                 1,L51            150            1,601
F5     1,C41                                            385                                       1,026            '50           1,576
'-7    1,041                                            290                                       1,331            150           1,881
'8        041                                           403                                       1,0              150           1,590
89     1,041                                            403                                       1,L444           150           1,59L
1090       785                                           403          237                          1,425            150           1,575
91        785 4703                                                   223                          1,J.1           150
9^        785                                           379          167                          1,331            150           1,081
93        785                                           460          233                          1,478            150           1,628
94        785                                           450          233                          1,L68            15            1,618
95        839                                          850           233                          1,522            150           1,672
96        839                                           450          233                          1,522            150           1,672
839                                           450          219                          1,508           150            1,658
S8        839                                                        266                          1,105           're            -,255
99        839                                                        261           1,828          2,928            150           3,078
200C      1,550                                                         261          1,717          3,528 5H5                       3,678
01                                                                                                2,216S/          15C           2,366
1,   '.d-cc Tcbl^ 5         '  RF0crort 1D- 2/7V/500 7 - Konyg.  cre-c  Plcn-.o icn ^cOct^..
wI'.4 c y :xcludco jc:c ",000 I-L catter-d plant.tion_.
'2/  Based on Table 3 of FAO Report DDC 2/71/KEN 7 - Kenya Forest Plantation P-c`ect.
3/  The volumes in this table exclude the yields fron about 10,C00 ha of scattered o1_r+t ons fcr -wThich-
adequate inventory data i-s not available; this assumption is consistent with t're estinates Mnde in
the FA0 Report.
4/ Assumed sustained annual yield from 136,000 ha at 17 r.3/ha/year.



KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECTS
VoitTe of Sales of Round .ogs M3(r)ub
1968        1969         1970         1971         1972         1973,
Podo (Podocarpus)34>O22.La5.   35,293,58   28,552.27   37,656.09   35,190.40   3;,+66v31
Cedar (Junipem-sv37,612.23   2-,769.49   16,833.17   22,721.37   114,1463.54   22$86iP8
Cypress          19614 .Zi  _'cEj85.3  '198,959.48  167,598.41   72 ,283.1*  169,381 055
(Cupressus',
P. Radiata         L,2959.92    7,327.34    7,103.87    8,230.24    7,385.42    9,37i<v6
P. Patula          2,134.43    5,254.77    6,578.03    9,762.46   11,243.44 _ 8,62348T
Other Softwood       161.83        62.12        -         2,251.98       907.15    1,262.23
Total Softwoods 195,854.88  252,512.33  258,026.82  248,220.55  244,470.36  255,971.80
Musharage (Olea'      143.36      322.56    1,108.78         78.65        46.09        36'8"
Muari (Pygeum)       388,06       236.11       407.98       390.81       414.42       502 A64
Camphor (Ocotea;  4.008.20    5,832.68    3,894-82    7,943.07    1,516.22            7521>
Vitex                 25,26       275.64       8148.145     375.26       23447        325 § 
Other Hardwoods  - l ,861 5 v,,  14-    k25.77   18,6141.10   25,265.07   45,09L591   52 .98!2
Total Hardwoods  1_c,73 2-43   22,092276   24,901.13   34,052.86   50.30-         5     3
GRAND TOTAL      212- 957.11  2746A05.09  282,927.95  282,i273.41  2914,773,47  310, 33 .22
                                                                                                          



ANNEX7
Tabie h
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
DOMES TIC AND EXPORT/' SALES
Sawlog       Sart-.rhber
Sales of     Rzialer.t2/Of which        Domestic Sales
which        ?ro:?Cti on- E:ports       (Transfer Sales>)2/
Calendar   (hardwood'
Year       m(r)ub        m3(s)        m3(s)            m3(s)
Actuals
1970       282,927        99,024      7,296            91,728
(25,000)                                  (22,500)
1971       282,273        98,795      4,315            9)4,480
(34,000'                                  (19,700)
1972       294,773       L03,i70      4,660            98,510
(50,000)                                   (4, 900)
1973       310,430      136,650      12,533            96,117
(54iOOO)                                   (3,000)
1974       340,000      119,0GO       n.a.              n.a.
1/ This figure excludes timber from private woodlots
which is not presently k'nown.
2/  Based on an actual ccnversiorn factor between roUi.dwcOoA and
sawnwood of 35%.
3/  Transfers to Tanzania and Uganda.
Source: Actuals: Forestry Depar-tent; Projections: FAC Report as basis.



KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
ROYALTY TREND (STUMPAGE) AND SELLING PRICE
(Shs/mnP)
Species             1 96 8  9    99/7T 197o11/7    -712            1972/73     1973/74     1974/75
Cedar               27.54       28.37        27.92       29.18       32.91       33.40       34.11
Podo (G)             29.66       30.87       31.90       32.65       38.36       37.16       39.26
Podo (M)             2)1 36      25.26       26.18       26.72       31.78       27.15       31.58
Camphor              38.49       39.31       42.44       46.53       57.89       51.16       54.00
Loliondo             19 77       21.30       21.64       24.91       26.42       25.50       20.35
Muhuru               67.79       67.79       67.79      125.50       82.62       85.12       85.12
Hagenia               6.35       27.14       27.14       27.14       45-97       28.28        28.50
Mueri                15.89       19.95       25.78       23.96       35.95       34.65       33.58
Average   C Uypreas  210.81     222.09      219.34    j 228.91      248-17      21a.23      291.47
Selling   PineI
Price              169.84      205.50      209.29    1 231.82      248.81      221.79       294.79
Pric
CDH



KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Government Cash Flow from the Prolect (   K Sh million)
Cash Inflow                             Cash Outflow
Revenues                Service  Interest                                 Net Annual  Cumulative
IDA    Bank    from        Total      of InA   Repayment of  Project        Total         Inflow       Inflow
Year           Fund   Fund  Stumpa&2  Cash Inflow  Credit   IBRD Loan  /   Costs   Cash Outflow   (Outflow)   (Outflow)
1 (1975/76)  23.9           0°5           214.4       0.2        0.5           66.5       67.2          (42.8)       (h2.8)
2            22.2            o.6          22.8        0.3        0.5           61.8      62.6           (39.8)       (82.6)
3            23.7            0.9          24.6        0.5        0-5           65.7      66.7           (42.1)      (124-7)
4             1.6   21.5    1.1           24.2        0.5        2.2           63.9      66.6           (42.4)      (167.1)
5              -     24t.1   51.          25.6        0.5        4.1           66.8      '(1.4          (45.8)      (212.9)
6 (1980/81    -      25.8    2.0          27.8        0.5        6.1           71.7       78.3          (50.5)      (263.41
7             -              2.2           2.2        0.5        6.1            -         6.6            (4-4)      (267.8)
8              -      -       2.4          2.4        0.5        6.1            -          6.6           (4.2)      (272.01
9              -      -      2.5           2.5        0.5        6.1            -          6.6           (4-1)      (276.1)
10              -      _       9.1          9.1        0.5        6.1            -          6.6            2.5       (273.6)
11                     -      12.5         12.5        1.2        8.6            _          9.8            2.7       (270.9)
12              _      -      13.0         13.0        1.2        8.6            -          9.8            3.2       (267.7)
13              _      -      13.6          13.6       1.2        8.6            -          9.8            3.8       (263.9)
14              -      -      15.7         15.7        1.2        8.6            -          9.8            5.9       (258.0)
15              -      -      22.6         22.6        1.2        8.6            -          9.8           12.8       (245.2)
16 (1990/91)   -       -      77.2          77.2       1.2        8.6            -          9.8           67-4       (177-8)
17              -      -      77.6          '77.6      1.2        8.6            -          9.8           67.8       (110.0)
18              -      -     54.6          54.6        1.2        8.6            -          9.8           44.8        (65.2)
19              -      -      61.0         61.0        1.2        8.6            -          9.8           51.2        (4h.o)
20              -      -      61.3         61.3        1.2        8.6            -          9.8           51.5         37.5
21              -      -       5.9          5^9        2.6        8.6            -         11.2           (5-3)        32.2
22              -      -       6.2          6.2        2.6        8.6            -         I1.?           (5-0)        27.2
23              -      -       6.6          6.6        2.5        8.6            -         '11.1          (4.5)        22.7
24              -      -       7.0     '      .0       2.5        8.6            -         11.1           (4-1)        18.6
25              -      _       7. 4          7.4       2.5        8.6            -         11.1           (3.7)        14.9
26 (200/01)    -       -    143.4         143.4        2.5        -              -          2.5          140.9        155.8
27              -      -    169.2         169.2        2.5        -              -          2.5          166.7        322.5  
28              -      -    168.9         168.9        2.5        -              -          2.5          166.4        488.9  
29              -      -    168.9         168.9        2-4        -              -          2.4          166.5        655-4       o 
30              -      -    171.6         171.6        2.4        -              -          2.4          169.2        824.6
1/  25-year loan with 81i2 % interest and 7-year grace period, which is 10 years from the year Project starts.
2/ Revenue from stumpage during Project period in current prices, after the Project period in 1980/81 constant prices.



Page 1
SECOND) FOR,1ESTRY PLANTEATION PROJECT
Economic Fvaluation
1.        Internal rates of return have been calculated for new and for exist-
ing plantations.  These in turn have been analyzed separately for sawlogs and
pulTwood.  The folloTing internal rates of return have been estimated:
Neti Plantations              EIPR  (Z)
(a)  Saw10gs                     18
(b)  Pulpwood                    25
The existing plantations were tested by comparing the additional benefits
expected with the additional cost from the silvicultural operations. In case
of savlogs the internal rate of return for weeding is expected to be 22%, for
pruning 30%, and thinning 102%. In the case of pulpwood weeding is expected
to yield 26%.
2.        The internal rates of return for new plantations have been calcu-
lated on a per hectare model basis. Sawlog benefits have been calculated on
the import/export parity price of sawlogs and benefits for pulpwood on import
parity prices of chips converted to standing wood. Details are given below:



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Shadow Rate of Stumpage for Sawlogs per m
US$
Sawn timber price lowest grade Scandinavia f.o.b.         120
Sea freight to Mombasa                                   35
Port handling Mombasa & Rail to Nairobi                  11
Sawn timber for Nairobi                                   166
Ex mill Kenya (weighted average) /1                      55
Less stumpage element                                     8
Handling and Rail from upcountry to Nairobi               8
55
Difference: Economic value of locally grown standing
timber before conversion                 US$111   K Sh 793
Export Sales
F.O.B. price, 1st grade                                  88
less logging, milling cost                             40
less rail freight and handling                         15
Economic value of standing wood                    US$33   K Sh 236
Assuming that
75% of production would be imported without the
Project (import substitution) at K Sh 793/m3
25% of production would be exported at K Sh 236/m3
Average value of sawn wood is therefore K Sh 654/mr3
Shadow Rate
Conversion Factor Ec. Stumpage Yields Revenue Foreign Exch.
m3(s) to m3(r)   Rate K Sh/m3  m3/ha  K Sh/ha         K Sh/ha
10 year thinning              30%              196          35    6,860          8,918
15 year thinning              35%              229          30    6,870          8,931
25 year thinning              42%              275         360   99,000        128,700
/1   Includes total manufacturing cost - less taxes of logging and sawnilling
(including profit) of local wood.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Import Parity Price of Pulpwood
US$
Cost of chips, West Coast Port f.o.b.                           84 Bone Dry Unit
Freight and Insurance, West Coast to Mombasa                  35  "
Cost c.i.f. Kenya                                            119
Less: Chipping costs (including depreciation of
equipment)                                            10
109
Conversion: 2,400 lbs BDU = 2 m3 roundwood
Estimated cost of imported pulpwood c.i.f. Mbmbasa              54.4/m3
Transport to Mill (600 km at K Sh 0.2 m3/mile)                10.7/m3
Handling                                                       1.6/m3
Cost of round pulpwood at mill site                       66.7/m3
Less:  Logging costs                                            13.5/m3
Transport and handling                                   2.0/m3
Value of standing pulpwood                        US$51.2/m3i K Sh/366rn3
Shadow Rate
Price    Yield    Revenue        Foreign Exchange
Pulpwood:               K Sh/m3   m3/ha    K Sh/ha              K Sh/ga
15-year clearfell       366       225      82,448            107,182
3.        Other assumptions used in the analysis are noted below:
(a)  Economic life of the Project for sawlog and pulpwood was assumed
to be 26 years and 16 years respectively.
(b)  Foreign exchange was rated 30% higher than the market rate and
labor 0.75 of the market rates.
(c)  The cost stream includes all economic costs on a per hectare
model basis as of March 1975 (investment and operational cost
including maintenance), and a 10% physical contingency allowance
was included on the cost of equipment, housing, buildings and
road construction.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(d) Benefits (import parity prices) were calculated as arithmetic
average over the period 1970-March 1975 in 1975 prices which
amounted to US$135/m3 for Scandinavia sawn timber. A price of
US$120/m3 was used in the economic analysis which in the light
of future expected price development is considered to be
conservative.
(e) Taxes are not included in the calculation.
(f) The value of the production of existing plantations are
dependent upon weeding, pruning and thinning operat_ons
being carried out. If these operations are not carried
out, the value of production would be reduced for weeding,
thinning and pruning by 10%, 17% and 45% respectively.
4.        The sensitivity of the rate of return to changes in some of the
basic parameters is illustrated below:
Internal Rate
of Return
New Plantations
I.   Sawlogs
The Basic Run                                     18
(a)  10% increase in cost                        18
(b)  10% reduction in benefits                   I
6c)  1C% increase in cost and 10% reduction
ir. benefits
(d)  One-year delay in benefits
II.  Puwpwood
The Basic Run                                     25
(a)  10% increase in costs                       24
(b)  10% reduction in benefits                   24
(cc 10% increase in cost and 10% reduction
in benefits                                 23
(d)  One-year delay in benefits                  23



ANNEX 9
KENYA                               Table 1
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Economic Internal Rate of Return CA.culation
Saw-log
K Sh/ha
Base Model
Year               Cost-         Benefit
1                3,i4.47         0.0
2                  330.2         0.0
3                  45 7.7       0.0
4                  330.2         0.0
5                  272.2         0.0
6                  330.2         0.0
7                   10.2         0.0
8                  330.2         0.0
9                   1C.2         0.0
10                  592.2    8,918.0
11                   10.2         0.0
12                   10.2         0.0
13                   10.2         0.0
l4                   10.2         0.0
}=5                 272.2    8,931.0
16                   10.2         0.0
17                   10.2         0.0
18                   10.2         0.0
19                   :C.2         0.0
20                  110.2         0.0
21                   :c<2         0.0
22                   10.2         0.0
23                   ZO0.2        0 .0
24                   1.O.2        0.0
25                   10.2         0.0
26                     .0  128,700.0
Internal Rate of Return = 18.2% over 26 years.



ANNEX 9
YNAYg                                 Table 2
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Economic Internal Rate of Return Calculation
Pulp-wood
K Sh/ha
Year                         Base M4odel
Cost         Benefit
1                     3,347.2         0.0
2                       26,7.5        0.
3                       267.5         0.0
4                       10.2          0.0
5                        10.2         0.0
6                        10.2         0.0
7                       10.2          0.0
8                       10.2          0.0
9                       10.2          0.0
10                        10.2         0.0
11                       10.2          0.0
12                        10.2         0.0
13                        10.2         0.0
14                       10.2          0.0
15                       10.2          0.0
16                          .0  107,182.0
Internal Rate of Return =-24.8% over 16 years



KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
|Chief Conservator           
Project Marnager                                                                                                                               Conservator Management
Conservator Industrial                                                                                                                               Servator anagesent
Plantations                                                                                                                                    Services and Research
I~ -                                    .I                                      - ..   1- X-   -         r        -       .     
Conservator                          Conservator                          Conservator                          Conservator                          Conservator
Pulpwood                              Nakuru                                 West                                 East                                 Coast
1. Turbo Div.                        1. Nyahururu Div.                     1. Nabkoi Div.                      1. Nairobi Div.                      1. Coast Div.
2. Eldoret Div.                      2. Elburgn Div.                       2. Kitale Div.                      2. Southern Div.                     2. Lamu Div.
3. Londiani Div.                     3. Kisumu Div.                      3. Nyeri Div.
4. Baringo Div.                                                          4. Embu Div.
Conservator                              Conservator                                Senior                                 Conservator
Rural Exterision                          Management                                 Research                              Forest Industrial
Scheme                                   Services                                 Officer                                Development
1. Management Plans                        1. Silviculturist                     1. Forest Industrial
Office                                   2. Entomologist                         Training Center
2. Inventory Section                       3. Pathologist                           Government Sawmill
3. Survey Section                          4. Utilization                           Nakuru
4. Forest Training                            Officer                            2. Forest Department
School Londiani                                                                  Road Unit
3. Marketing Section
4. Sawmill Advisory
Section
Wodd Bank-9699






-                                                 I                                                     -                             L.
I K    ICTOKIA
K                                                                                                                                                            'sQ 
I.
-                   p
/                 -        It-                                                                                       I      t
-o                                                                                                                                                   7'-
'V
a                                                                                                                                            /
_                                                                           /          A
*         /                                                                                                                              /<tl
I-..
-'4
zX
-I
N
0
-o
K            K
 g  £ 4' ' g
/
o                                                                                                          0            N                /
-.                                               0                             )
-,                                                                          N,    4                -
N
-"ox--                                                                                I.                -
16  AAV(ThIIA  f
-'EvA CII



