CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 565 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Forestry Plantation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 565 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Forestry Plantation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional assistance
towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the
Bank agrees to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the exient practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures for the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.0 1. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 1 5, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "Forest Department" means the Forest Department of the Borrower's
Ministry of Natural Resources;
(c)   "Project Manager," "Project Accountant" and "Forest Economist"
mean, respectively, the project manager, project accountant and forest economist
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(d)   "Land Use Committee" and "Land Use Secretariat" mean, respectively,
the Land Use Committee and the Land Use Secretariat to be established pursuant
to the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and
(e)   "shillings" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1985 and ending April 1, 2025 each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Forest
Department with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
silvicultural, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, for the purposes set forth in Section 3.01
of this Agreement:
(a)   appoint in its Forest Department, in Nairobi, (i) a Project Manager
directly responsible to the Chief Conservator of the Forest Department for the
management and administration of the Project and the Borrower's industrial forest
plantation program, and (ii) an Assistant Project Manager, a Project Accountant,
a Forest Economist and adequate supporting staff directly responsible to the Project
Manager;


﻿6
(b)   appoint, within three months after the Effective Date (or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), in
consultation with the Association, the Forest Economist referred to in paragraph
(a)(ii) of this Section 3.02; and
(c)   consult with the Association regarding any change in the appointment
of the Project Manager and Project Accountant referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section 3.02.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain separate records and accounts
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; (iii) shall have its accounts in respect
of the Project for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; and shall furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its accounts in respect of the Project for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the goods and services


﻿7
financed out of such proceeds, the accounts of the Borrower in respect of the
Project and the audit thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, within twelve months of the Effective Date, set aside and cause
to be gazetted as nature reserves, an area of not less than 3,000 hectares of the
North Nandi forest and an area of not less than 4,000 hectares in the
Arabuko-Sokoke forest.
(b)   Not later than June 1, 1978 (or such later date as the Association
may approve), the Borrower shall complete a study to determine whether there
is a need for additional nature reserves in the Kakamega forest reserve and shall
submit such study to the Association for its review.
(c)   The Borrower shall use its best efforts to gazette as forest reserves
the Huri Hills forest, the Karasuk Hills forest, the Muranisigar forest and the riverine
forests along the lower part of the Tana River,
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that
the execution of the Project is carried out with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors, and in particular that the land clearance and planting systems
used will minimize erosion damage, the wasteful utilization of forest resources,
and adverse effects on fauna and flora.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, for the purpose
of carrying out the study of public land suitable for forestry included under Part
F of the Project, the Borrower shall (i) within six months of the Effective Date,
submit to the Association for its approval (A) detailed terms of reference for such
study, and (B) its proposed staffing for the carrying out of such study and (ii)
within one year of the Effective Date, employ for such purpose consultants or
specialists having qualifications and experience, and upon terms and conditions,
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall establish, not later than December 31, 1975
(or such later date as the Association may approve), and maintain a Land Use
Committee and a Land Use Secretariat the composition and functions whereof
shall conform to the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿8
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall increase its stumpage rates for sawn timber from time to time but
at least annually, on or before the first day of July in each year commencing
with the year 1976 to and including the year 1982, so as to achieve an annual
average increase in its said rates over the previous year of at least 10% in addition
to an adjustment for inflation; but in any event, such rates shall be increased to
the extent required to bring, not later than December 31, 1981, the weighted
average rate per cubic meter of softwood plantation timber to fifty shillings in
1975 prices (that is, fifty shillings adjusted for inflation). For the purposes of
this Section, adjustments for inflation shall be made on the basis of the average
of the following of the Borrower's cost of living indices: wage earner's index of
consumer prices, as published in the Kenya Statistical Digest; middle income index
of consumer prices, as published in the Kenya Statistical Digest; and cost of living
index (excluding rent), as published in the Kenya Gazette; or on the basis of
such other index or indices as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall by December 31, 1976, or such later date as may
be agreed to by the Association, carry out and submit to the Association for its
comments, a study to determine the stumpage rates for sawn timber and pulpwood
which would have to be charged to enable its industrial forest plantations to become
financially self-supporting and in addition to earn a reasonable rate of return and
shall thereafter adopt such measures in relation to the foregoing as are suggested
by the findings of said study and as shall be mutually agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall with the assistance of consultants or specialists acceptable to the Association,
carry out a program to improve the efficiency and production of its sawmilling
industry, including the establishment and operation of a small-scale sawmilling
training center, and shall, for this purpose, (i) within six months of the Effective
Date, submit to the Association for its approval detailed terms of reference for
the consultants or specialists to be appointed for such purpose, and its proposed
candidates for such appointment, and (ii) by December 31, 1976, prepare a detailed
plan for the expansion of its sawmilling industry.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿9
(a)(i)      Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(ii)      Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Loan Agreement has become effective; and
(b)   a Joint Memorandum from the Ministries specified in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement has been submitted for approval of the establishment of the Land
Use Committee as provided herein to the Borrower's Cabinet.
Section 6.02. The date September 25, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:
FINANCE
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Bernard Adundo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. S. Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of
such proceeds to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Vehicles and                   4,000,000          100% of foreign
Equipment                                        expenditures or
75% of local
expenditures
(2)  Civil Works                    4,000,000          35%
(3)  Consultant Serv-               2,000,000          100% of foreign
ices, Studies                                    expenditures or
and Training                                     35% of local
expenditures
(4)  Project Adminis-               5,000,000          35% of local
tration                                          expenditures
(5)   Afforestation                 3,000,000          35% of local
expenditures
(6)  Unallocated                    2,000,000
TOTAL                   20,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and


﻿12
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association and the Bank that no proceeds of the Credit or of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect
the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan, the Association or the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (4) and (5) on account
of expenditures incurred after January 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding $1,300,000.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn or
committed no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the .allocation of an amount of the Credit or of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if
the Association and the Bank have (or, after withdrawal of the full amount of
the Credit, the Bank has) reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Association and the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association and the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdr,iwals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set


﻿13
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan and the Association
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement
or of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit and of the Loan as in the Association's and the Bank's
reasonable opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and
of the Loan.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A
The establishment within a six-year period (1975 to 1980) of approximately
32,000 hectares of new sawlog plantation and approximately 8,000 hectares of
new pulpwood plantation, particulars whereof are set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule 2, as such Annex may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, and the reforestation of approximately
6,000 hectare- of clearfelled plantation areas.
Part B
The weeding, pruning and thinning of approximately 120,000 hectares of
established sawlog and pulpwood plantation, and the provision of fire control and
other services in respect thereof.
Part C
The construction of approximately 960 kilometers, and the upgrading of
an additional 120 kilometers, of all-weather forest roads and plantation access
tracks.
Part D
The construction of a new Forest Department divisional headquarters, four
new stations, twelve new sub-stations and houses for the workers employed in
the new stations and sub-stations, and the improvement of houses for approximately
1,270 forest workers. This part of the Project will include the carrying out of
a four month study of standards and building techniques for low cost housing.
Part E
The acquisition of bulldozers, loaders, graders, rollers, lorries, tractors, saloon
cars, water pumps and other equipment required to carry out Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project.


﻿15
Part F
The carrying out of a study of public land suitable for forestry,
socio-economic and saw mill improvement studies, and the provision of technical
assistance for such purposes; the carrying out of an annual 40 hectare trial program
for evaluation of coastal forest potential in each of the Arabuko-Sokoke and
Boni-Lungi districts; and provision of sawmilling training and specialist training and
equipment for the use of the Earth Resources Technology Satellite system.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿16
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Planting Program 1975-1980
(Hectares)
Turbo Division                                            2,950
Eldoret Division                                          8,320
Elburgon Division                                         5,490
Londiani Division                                         3,580
Nyahururu Division                                        5,640
Baringo Division                                          2,680
Kitale Division                                           3,670
Kisumu Division                                           1,470
Nyeri Division                                            1,830
Embu Division                                               480
Nairobi Division                                          1,740
Machakos Division                                           990
Coast Division                                              990
TOTAL                 39,830


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Land Use Committee and Secretariat
1.   The Land Use Committee shall be established as an inter-ministerial
committee including the Permanent Secretaries of the Office of the President and
of the Ministries of Finance and Planning, Lands and Settlement, Agriculture,
Tourism and Wildlife, Local Government, Water Development and Natural
Resources.
2.   The jurisdiction of the Land Use Committee shall extend to all land in Kenya
outside municipalities. All substantial proposed changes in land use shall be referred
to the Committee for disposition. The purposes and functions of the Committee
shall be:
(a)  To carry out or commission, and to review, studies on land use, both
general and with respect to specific land;
(b)   To arbitrate any competing claims which arise in respect of proposed
changes in land use, provided that if any such competing claims are not resolved
within the Committee, the Chairman of the Committee shall refer the matter to
the Cabinet for decision together with any studies or reports regarding the
alternative uses of the land involved.
3.   The Land Use Committee shall be appropriately authorized and empowered
to carry out the purposes and functions described above.
4.    The Commissioner of Lands shall provide the secretariat for the Committee
and shall be provided with suitably qualified staff in adequate numbers for purposes
of making recommendations with respect to land use. The Commissioner of Lands
shall, on the request of the Chairman of the Land Use Committee, prepare such
recommendations as are required to enable the Committee to carry out its purposes
and functions.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   Any contract for equipment or vehicles estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $50,000 may be let in accordance with the standard government
procurement procedures of the Borrower.
(b)   Civil works for the Project may be carried out by the Forest
Department of the Borrower under force account.
3.    Identical or similar items of equipment and vehicles shall be grouped together
wherever practicable for purposes of procurement.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:


﻿19
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 151 of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison tinder paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment or vehicles estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further


﻿20
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


