                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank



                                                               Report No: 25716-KZ




                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                            ONA


                                     PROPOSED LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40.39 MILLION


                                          TO THE

                             GOVERNMENT OF KAZAKHSTAN


                                          FOR THE


                             NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT


                                       March 27, 2003




Environment and Socially Sustainable Development Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 27, 2003)

                            Currency Unit = Tenge
                                   1tenge = US$.00659
                                    US$1 = 151.78 tenge


                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 - December 31


                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CWR     Committee for Water Resources
DFID    UK Department for International Development
EA      Environmental Assessment
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
FM      Financial Management
FMCA    Financial Management Capacity Assessment
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
ha      hectare
JEP     Joint Environment Program
IFAC    Intemational Federation of Accountants
LIBOR   London Interbank Offered Rate
m3      cubic meters
mn      million
MoA     Ministry ofAgriculture
MoF     Ministry of Finance
NEAP    National Environmental Action Plan
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NPV     Net Present Value
PCG     Public Consultative Group
PHRD    Population and Human Resources Development
PMU     Project Management Unit
PV      Present Value
RFP     Request for Proposal
SA      Special Account
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
TC      Technical Coordinator of the PMU
VAT     Value Added Tax
WTP     Willingness to pay




                          Vice President:    Johannes Linn
              Country Manager/Director:      Dennis de Tray
                Sector Manager/Director:     Laura Tuck
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Piotr Krzyzanowski

                                             KAZAKHSTAN
                                 NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT



                                              CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                        2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                           2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                   7
   2. Key policy and institutional reformns supported by the project                       9
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10

D. Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           12
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       13
   3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 14
   4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    15
   5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         15

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            15
   2. Financial                                                                           16
   3. Technical                                                                           17
   4. Institutional                                                                       17
   5. Environmental                                                                       19
   6. Social                                                                              21
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  22


F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                      24
   2. Critical risks                                                                      24

   3. Possible controversial aspects                                25


G. Main Loan Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                       25
   2. Other                                                         25

H. Readiness for Implementation                                     26

I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                    26



Annexes

Annex 1:  Project Design Summary                                    27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                               32
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs                                   38
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                        44
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                          49
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                               50
          (B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements    56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                63
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                              64
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                             65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                       67
Annex 11: EA - Executive Summary                                    69
Annex 12: Dam Safety Assessment - Executive Summary                 70




MAP(S)
IBRD - KAZ31786

                                                   KAZAKHSTAN
                                         NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT

                                         Project Appraisal Document

                                           Europe and Central Asia Region
                                                      ECSSD

Date: March 27, 2003                                      Team Leader: Piotr Krzyzanowski
Sector Director: Laura Tuck                               Sector(s): Water supply (70%), Central government
Country Director: Dennis de Tray                          administration (25%), Information technology (5%)
Project ID: P059803                                       Theme(s): Water resource management (P),
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Environmental policies and institutions (P)

  Project Financing .-t -
 [X] Loan        [1 Credit      [ ] Grant     [ Guarantee         [ Other:

 For LoanslCreditslOthers:
 Loan Currency: United States Dollar
 Amount (US$m): $40.39 million
 Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: [ Yes
 Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
 Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 15
 Commitment fee: 0.75                                   Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                        Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Financing IPlan (US$rn):       Source     -                   -r---=,'.Lo-F--Foreg'               -v    T
BORROWER                                                                 24.54              2.89         27.43
IBRD                                                                     38.89              1.50         40.39
Total:                                                                   63.43              4.39         67.82

 Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF KAZAKHSTAN, MOF
 Responsible agency: STATE COMMITTEE FOR WATER RESOURCES
 State Cormmittee for Water Resources
 Address: 28-A Mozhaiskiy Str., 473201 Astana, Kazakhstan
 Contact Person: Anatoly Ryabtzev, Chairman
 Tel: 7-3122-241428                 Fax: 7-3122-242 491               Email:
 Contact Person:

 Tel: :               Fax:               Email:

 Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):

.       FY           2004        2005 -       2006.    - 2007.    -200           .:2009              ,-
           Annual      7.43         11.92       9.71        0.00         5.66        5.67
      Cumulative       7.43         19.35      29.06       29.06        34.72       40.39

 Project implementation period: 6 years
 Expected effectiveness date: 01/15/2004     Expected closing date: 09/30/2009

A. Project Development Objective

 1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The development objective of the project is to improve the welfare of the population in the Nura River
Basin by cleaning up serious mercury pollution in and adjacent to the Nura River, providing a safe,
secure and cost effective altemative source of water supply to meet growing needs of local water users,
and restoring flow control in the river for flood management and ecological purposes.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

The key performance indicators that will be used to assess the fulfillment ofthe project's development
objectives are:

o    Reduction ofmercury contamination in areas adjacent to population centers;
o    Improvement in year-round water quality in the Nura River to meet internationally accepted
     standards for mercury content in drinking water;
o    Availability of new sources of potable water supply for Astana and other communities along the
     Nura River;
o    Year-round water supply to the Kurgalzhino Wetlands;
o    Establishment of a functional River Basin Authority capable of planning and optimizing the use of
     the water resource;
o    Establishment of a comprehensive system of water quality monitoring to provide ongoing protection
     ofpopulation.

 3. Strategic Content

1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal suppoErted by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 21607 KZ        Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/16/2001

Consistent with the Govemment's priorities, the overarching objective of the Bank Group's Country
Assistance Strategy for Kazakhstan is poverty reduction and the improvement of living standards. The
current CAS focuses on four main areas:

*        Reforming thepublic sectorso that fiscal resources are managed in a transparent manner, and
public services are effectively and efficiently delivered to the people.
*        Promotingbroad-basedprivatesector-ledgrowth to increase employment opportunities and
incomes across a broad segment of the population.
*        Supportingthe most vulnerablethrough the enhancement ofboth temporary and permanent
programs of income support for the poorest, as well as through reforms in the health and education
sectors, rural roads, and improvements in the delivery of municipal and industrial water supply and
sanitation.
*        Protectingthe environment, to reduce the damage to the quality oflife for current and future
generations. Addressing environmental degradation will require cleaning up contaminated rivers and
water sources, restoring marginal lands, and improving management practices for water and sewerage.
The Bank's strategy concentrates on addressing industrial pollution in the Northeastern industrial area,
promoting integrated planning of water resources and addressing the security ofwater supply and access
to clean water for vulnerable population.

The proposed Nura River project is specifically noted in the CAS as one of the projects under the third
and fourth categories of assistance - support of vulnerable groups through improved delivery of basic



                                                    -2 -

water, sewerage and heating services, and protection ofthe environment, in this case by cleaning up
mercury pollution in an adjacent to the Nura river. The primary focus of the project is to clean up large
concentrations of mercury that threaten the well-being ofthe local population both through direct
exposure and through contamination of the water supply in the Nura River Basin. The presence of
mercury represents an ongoing source of concern for local residents and officials who regard the Nura
River as a "gutter." The source of the mercury pollution is the AO Karbide Synthetic Rubber factory at
Temirtau (currently in bankruptcy, and no longer operating). An estimated 3,000 tons of mercury was
used in industrial processing at the plant during its operating life, and much of it has accumulated not
only at the plant site, but also in topsoil along the river banks and floodplains downstream of the city.
The plant site itself needs urgent attention because ofthe imminent danger that its building will collapse,
thereby exposing the surrounding area to even higher levels of mercury polllution. The local
administration has initiated temporary emergency containment measures, but a more permanent solution
is needed as quickly as possible.

Concurrently, by reducing the levels of mercury in the Nura River, the project would contribute to the
cost-effective and sustainable supply ofwater to the population in the Nura River Basin, as well as in the
capital city of Astana. In addition, rehabilitation of the Intumak Dam and Reservoir, together with
improved capacity for water resource planning and management, would improve flow control within the
Nura Basin for flood management and protection of downstream wetlands, as well as for security of
water supply. Finally, the project supports the Millenium Development Goals which include the
provision of access to clean water and sanitation.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

The Government is facing a number of challenges with respect to remediation of environmental
degradation, cost-effective supply of potable water to the population, and ongoing protection of
environmental resources. Key issues that are being addressed are the following:

EnvironmentalDegradation: With independence, the Republic ofKazakhstan inherited a legacy of
environmental damage caused by many years of output-focused development, with little regard to either
economic viability or environmental impact. The most serious ofthese legacies constitute an ongoing
threat to the well-being of the population, not only within the immediate area but also in many instances
over a broad geographic region. In the case of the Nura river basin, confirmed data indicate that
accumulation from more than 3000 tons of mercury remain in the topsoil of the flood plain, riverbed and
banks and on the grounds of a now defunct industrial plant. Until such time as these environmental
hazards are remediated, they act as a constraint on economnc development. In 1998, the Government
completed a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), which identified several key environmental
concerns: i) a deficit of water resources; ii) the degradation of pasture and arable lands; iii) air pollution
of urban territories; iv) environmental pollution in oil fields; v) pollution from industrial and municipal
solid waste; vi) shortage of forests and protected territories; and vii) pollution ofwater bodies. The
NEAP also highlighted a number of regional measures that warrant priority implementation. In the
central and eastern part of the country, these included urgent measures to prevent loss of water sources in
the basins of the Irtysh and Nura Rivers, including demercurization, clean-up of kerosene infiltration in
underground water, protection ofrivers from pollution originating in run-off/leakage from industrial
dumps, and improvement of the regional water distribution system.

High Costsof WaterSupply: The Republic ofKazakhstan also inherited a costly and elaborate system
for water supply. Many water supply projects implemented under the Soviet system were intended to
provide not only water for the population, but also irrigation water for agricultural schemes that
subsequently proved to be uneconomic. The government is forced to maintain these costly networks as



                                                       - 3 -

they represent, in many cases, the sole source of water supply for neighboring households, industries and
commercial enterprises. The problem is compounded by the fact that a number ofprivate enterprises,
having found that they can meet their water needs more cheaply from other sources, have disconnected
from the network, increasing the residual burden on captive residual customers. Initially, the
Government provided subsidies to the Vodakanals to mitigate the excessively high cost of water supply;
however, this was clearly not a sustainable long term option. The Government's current strategy focuses
on the following actions: (i) decentralizing responsibility for water and wastewater to municipalities to
facilitate local initiatives and to reduce administrative costs; (ii) reducing/withdrawing subsidies to the
Vodakanals to provide them with greater incentive to look for low-cost supplies; (iii) promoting private
sector involvement in water supply (either through transfer of assets or management contracts) in order to
introduce more efficient operating practices and technologies; and (iv) seeking ways to use more
effectively available water resources, including cleaning up contaminated water where practical.

Sustainabilityof Water Supply: Large parts ofthe country, including many regions where there is
significant economic activity, are arid, and dependence upon ground water is not feasible. However,
many of the existing surface schemes are costly and technically complex. The Government is therefore
attempting to identify and facilitate the development of alternative sources ofwater supply that could be
used to meet both current and future needs at more attractive prices. To reduce the risks associated with
failure of individual supply sources, the Government also seeks to ensure that major centers have access
to at least two independent sources of water. It is also actively promoting demand management in order
to alleviate the need for additional sources of supply. Unfortunately, the Nura river, which would
otherwise be a good source for drinking and agricultural use, is contaminated with mercury from a now
bankrupt industrial site. Concerns about sustainability ofwater supply can be effectively addressed
through initiatives such as the proposed Nura River Clean-up project, with its associated rehabilitation
ofIntumak Dam, would make the river available for drinking and agricultural use, thereby providing
incremental water to meet future demands in Astana, as well as a back-up source of water for adjacent
communities, at a relatively reasonable cost.

Lack ofEffective IntegratedWaterResourceManagement: Long term solutions to meeting demands for
water require an integrated approach on the part of the water resources, environmental and water supply
sectors. Despite the presence ofa relatively elaborate legal and institutional framework, integrated
planning and management of water resources and water supply systems has received limited attention.
Past approaches to meeting growing water demands were dominated by technical solutions, often without
regard for either integrated planning or cost-effectiveness. Comprehensive and cross-sectoral water
planning and management practices that take into account demands and impacts of all water-using
sectors (including the environment), water quantity and quality, and conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater do not exist. Since independence, the government has reacted strongly to large threats such
as mercury pollution, but overall, new environmental policies and programs have proven overly
ambitious and too general. They lack location specific requirements or cost benefit considerations, with
the result that they are often ignored.

As an initial step in addressing these problems, the Governrment is establishing systems and institutions
for integrated resource management on a river basin basis. Basin Management Authorities have been
established throughout the country (including the Nura-Sarysu Basin). However, the capacity ofthese
Authorities to remediate such problems as mercury pollution and to properly monitor and manage the use
of water resources is limited. Institutional strengthening is needed, both in terms oftraining in basin
management theories and practices, and support for basic data gathering and analysis.

InadequateLegalFrameworkforBasinManagement: Kazakhstan's 1993 Water Code provides an
overall framework for the regulation of domestic, industrial and agricultural water use, and requires


                                                      - 4 -

 compliance with environmental regulations. The Code also introduces the concept of water pricing, and
 stipulates rules on pollution control and water conservation. However, a number of changes need to be
 introduced into the Code to provide a sufficient legal framework for the effective development of River
 Basin Authorities, including definition of appropriate institutional and financing arrangements, and
clarification of the rights and responsibilities of the Basin authorities with respect to water use planning,
permitting, monitoring and control. The Committee for Water Resources (CWR) is currently developing
 a revised Code. A draft of the revisions was submitted for Government review in November, 2002.
Following comment and amendment, a final draft of the revised Code would be submitted for
Parliamentary approval.

Effectiveness ofPollution ControlMeasures: While the legislative basis has been established to provide
for proper control and management of water quality, there are a number of issues that hinder effective
implementation. In order to adequately protect the quality of water resources, a rational permit system
for the polluting enterprises is needed, which takes into account water quality goals, the assimilative
capacity of the receiving water body, and the ability of concemed enterprises to meet their environmental
obligations. Water quality classification and mapping should be carried out, and an integrated river basin
plan prepared to determine acceptable pollution loads to the river at various locations. In addition,
realistic estimates of waste discharge should be prepared based on environmental audits at polluting
enterprises. The current system of inspection and penalties is also ineffective in enforcing the stipulated
effluent discharge limits. While fines are imposed, the collection system is poor and the cash flow
arrangements between the center and the regions are such that only a small fraction of the collected fines
are accessible to the regional authorities.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

The project would directly address the main sector issues, as they relate to the Nura River Basin, in the
following manner:

*    Remediating environmental degradation, and alleviating current and potential risks to the local
     population, by cleaning up mercury pollution at and downstream from Temirtau, overseeing
     remediation efforts and monitoring their effects;

*    Ensuring effective management of the land fill site where contaminated soil and other residues from
     the Karbide plant are to be contained;

*    Improving the capacity to manage flows in the river, in order to alleviate downstream problems with
     seasonal flooding, and with irregular and often inadequate supply of water to the Kurgaldzhino
     wetlands;

*    Enhancing the capacity for integrated management of the river (including pollution control) by: (i)
     supporting an improved regulatory framework for integrated management of the Nura-Sarysu Basin,
     and (ii) improving the resources management capacity ofthe Basin Authority; and (iii) enhancing the
     capacity of regional agencies to monitor and manage water quality, pollution levels, and health
     related aspects in the river;

*    Ensuring sustainable and cost effective water supply for communities in the Nura River Basin,
     including the capital city of Astana.




                                                      -5 -

RemediatingEnvironmentalDegradation:The estimated amount of mercury deposited in the Nura Basin
is significant by any standard. Unconfirmed data indicate that more than 3,000 tons of mercury was used
during the lifetime operation of the A/O Karbide plant at Temirtau, and accurnulations remain in the
topsoil of the floodplain, along the riverbed and banks, at the old wastewater treatment plant site, and on
the grounds ofthe plant, which is located in the city center at Temirtau. Detailed technical evaluations
and risk analyses suggest that it is neither feasible nor cost effective to attempt to remove all of the
contaminants. However, there are a number of areas which represent either an immediate or longer term
potential hazard to local population and to downstream communities that may rely on the river for water
supply. The plant is of particular concern because it is nearing physical collapse, and large amounts of
mercury currently contained in its buildings could become exposed at any time. There is a pressing need
to clean up the mercury to prevent further exposure of the population, and to protect against further
spread of contaminated material. Another priority is to remove mercury contamination at identified hot
spots in the banks and floodplains along a 25 kilometer stretch of the Nura River, where seasonal
flooding frequently leads to increased concentrations of mercury in the river, and contamination of
groundwater and fisheries.

FlowManagement: The project would also finance rehabilitation ofthe dam at the Intumak Reservoir,
which is located approximately 80 km downstream from Temirtau. The Intumak Dam was built between
1982 and 1984 as part of a proposed irrigation scheme. However, the irrigation project was abandoned
before the civil works for the dam had been completed. In particular, the regulating gates and the
spillway were not completed in conformity with the design, and the reservoir is filled during flood season
to less than three-fourths of its design capacity (180 million m' out of a capacity of250 million m').
Following the flood season, the water evacuates through the open gate structures, and the reservoir
volume drops to approximately 20 million m'. Recent engineering studies indicate that there has been
some water penetration of the dam, and that works should be carried out to reinforce the main structure,
in order to prevent a possible breach and release of floodwaters and contaminants downstream. At the
same time, it has been proposed that the spillway and gates be completed so that the reservoir can be
operated at design capacity, even though the irrigation need did not materialize. Given that
approximately 80 percent of the annual flow in the river occurs over a two month period in the Spring,
this would offer significant benefits in terms of downstream flood control and seasonal water storage. It
would also ensure an adequate dry-season supply of water to the Kurgaldzhino Wetlands - an ecological
area which is included under the Ramsar Convention in the list of sites with global significance.

MercuryMonitoringofthe IntumakDam andReservoir:Thereis one proviso with respect to the
proposed rehabilitation of the Dam and increased use of the reservoir. Water quality testing has shown a
significant difference in the levels of mercury above and below the dam, indicating that much ofthe
mercury contained in the runoff has been trapped in the reservoir. Generally speaking, the mercury is
bound with ash from other industrial runoff, and is therefore in a stable state. There is a risk, however,
that increasing the operating capacity ofthe reservoir could result in significant increases in the
transformation of mercury from a metallic to an organic form, leading to releases of an extremely
dangerous form of mercury into the environment. Research in other parts ofthe world has suggested that
flooding of mercury-contaminated lands that are rich in organic matter results in greatly increased
methylation rates. Therefore, as a precautionary measure, further sampling and testing of water quality
and pollution levels within the reservoir would be carried out over a full calendar year, and the results
analyzed by international experts in mercury methylation, to determine whether it is necessary to
excavate mercury deposits in the reservoir prior to raising the operating level. An internationalexpert
advisorygroup wouldreview the recommendationson the mitigationactions neededpriorto
developmentatIntumak, andtheir concurrencewith these recommendationswouldbe apriorcondition
to disbursementsrelatedto the civil works to befinancedunder theproject. The budget for this



                                                      - 6-

component includes sufficient funds to finance the relatively small expenditures anticipated in the event
that dredging/excavation is required.

InstitutionalStrengtheningofBasinAuthorities: The project would also assist the Government in
developing and implementing measures to strengthen the Nura-Sarysu River Basin Authority's
monitoring network, water pollution control system and regulatory framework. The project will review
the regulatory framework, including emission licensing procedures, pollution charges, and monitoring
systems, with the aim of rationalizing the regulations and establishing conditions for effective pollution
control. The project will strengthen the environmental permitting process by establishing a system based
on efficiency and enforceability. These activities would support, and be coordinated with ongoing work
(by DFID) related to the adoption of a new Water Code, rationalization of institutional responsibilities in
water resource management issues, and institutional capacity building within the Committee for Water
Resources and the Basin Authorities.


Sustainablewater supply: For many years, the residents of the Nura River Basin unknowingly consumed
the highly polluted waters, but when information about the mercury and other pollution surfaced, human
use of Nura water virtually ceased. Upstream communities such as Karaganda now draw their water
primarily from the Irtysh-Karaganda Canal, which transports water from the Irtysh River over a distance
of 450 km with a total lift of453 meters. The Canal was built in the 1960s to support the Soviet virgin
lands development program, a massive, albeit ultimately unsuccessful agricultural development scheme.
The cost of pumping is high, quality is compromised by pollution in the Irtysh River and by
mineralization in storage reservoirs along the Canal, and the unit cost of water is increasing as water
users along the canal seek other sources in response to tariff increases necessitated by cost recovery
principles. Cleaning up the sources of ongoing mercury pollution of the Nura River would provide
residents of these upstream communities with a considerably less costly source of water supply.

The newly created capital city of Astana also faces medium and long-term issues with respect to
sustainable water supply. Astana currently relies on the Ishim River for its water supply. The Viacheslav
Reservoir upsteam of the city provides medium-term storage. However, the city is expected to double in
population over the next 10 years, from about 375,000 to 700,000 inhabitants, and notwithstanding a
planned loss reduction program, water resources from the Ishim may not be sufficient to meet Astana's
increased demand (particularly during periods of low flow). The options before the govermment are to
either obtain additional water via a pipeline which links the Viacheslav Reservoir to the
Irtysh-Karaganda Canal or clean up the mercury from the Nura River and use an existing canal which
links the Nura to the Ishim River at Astana to deliver additional water to the local population. Again, the
latter represents a less costly altemative. In addition, by providing a source of water supply to the capital
that is completely independent of the Viacheslav Reservoir, the project would address concerns about
security of supply.




                                                     -7 -

C. Project IDescription Summary

1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):


      .                                                                                             .1
                       .
       _ n.'  ~Orv t     *eqb   rI -nr                                         %6eisvojl5                se,<
                                                                                                           ntAJ
         '-°        t        - -                                                           .             '7  '.' ._|_
                                                                                                              t\t;t


 1a. Landfill construction                                          10.88         16.0          6.24       15.4
  lb. AO Karbide site clean up                                      22.50         33.2         14.68       36.3
 lc. Nura river clean up                                            10.71         15.8          6.95       17.2
 2. Completion of Intumak Reservoir spillway                        19.13         28.2         11.80       29.2
 3. Institutional Strengthening and Technical Monitoring              1.68         2.5          0.32        0.8
 4. Project Management and inpact Monitoring                          2.53         3.7          0.00        0.0
                                            Total Project Costs     67.43         99.4         39.99       99.0
                                                 Front-end fee        0.40         0.6          0.40        1.0
                                    Total Financing Required        67.83        100.0         40.39      100.0


Component 1: Nurn Valley Mercury Clean-Up ($44.08 million) This component of the project would
include financing for (i) construction of a secure landfill for proper containment of contaminated soil and
materials, (ii) excavation ofcontaminated hotspots at the AO Karbide plant site at Temirtau (factory
building, main drain, and adjacent waste disposal sites), and (iii) excavation of other highly contaminated
areas including the Zhaur Swamp, and critical areas of mercury accumulation along the banks and '
floodplains of the Nura River, as well as the transport of the materials to the landfill site. A suitable
landfill site has been identified at Opan, near Temirtau, adjacent to an existing landfill associated with
the Ispatkarmet Metallurgical Plant, and the Government, through the Committee for Water Resources,
has reached agreement with parties having an interest in the site over acquisition of title.

The project would also finance the initial operation of the landfill, and the establishment of a long-term
monitoring and maintenance program. Additionally, as part of this component, funding would be
provided for inspection and monitoring of the landfill construction and soil-excavation process by
independent experts to ensure that the selected contractors meet all technical and environmental
standards and safeguards.

Component 2: IJntumak Reservoir Rebabilitattion ($119.13 mullon). Component 2 would finance
rehabilitation of the Intumak Reservoir, including reinforcement of the dam and completion of the
spillway and gates to allow the dam to operate as a mechanism for flow control at its original design
reservoir level. This would allow development and implementation ofan integrated water resources
management plan for Intumak and the upstream Samarkand and Sherubianur Dams and reservoirs.
However, owing to uncertainty about the effect of raising the operating level at Intumak Reservoir on
mercury methylation, a one-year monitoring program would be carried out as a precautionary measure,
and the results analysed and modelled to assess the inherent risks. The program of required works, as
well as the dam operational manual, would be developed based on the findings of this analysis and would
be reviewed by an Intemational Expert Advisory Group. Any disbursementforcivil works relatedto this
component would be conditionalon the agreementof theExpert Advisory Group. In the event that the
results of the monitoring and assessment indicate a risk of unacceptable levels of mercury methylation


                                                     - 8 -

associated with increased operating levels, completion ofthe spillway and gates would be postponed
until mercury deposits in the bottom of the reservoir could be removed and transferred to the landfill.
Provision has been made in the cost estimate for this component to cover the cost of any additional
dredging works required. Component 3 includes funding for the design and implementation of the
monitoring program, and the participation of the International Expert Advisory Group. While the exact
amount of dredging would be based on the further monitoring and analysis, it is expected that the volume
would be small in the context of the overall project, and the cost would be minor.

Component 3: Nura-Sarysu River Basin Authority Strengthening ($1.68 million) This component
would finance technical assistance, training and equipment necessary to increase the institutional
capacity of the Nura-Sarysu River Basin Authority, in order to strengthen its resource planning and
management capacity, as well as to strengthen the water quality monitoring network, and water pollution
control systems. Supplementary assistance from the Japanese government has also been solicited and a
decision is expected by early 2003. The supplementary assistance would provide (with the participation
of Japanese experts from the Minamata Institute) technical support in the design and implemenation of an
immediate program to monitor and assess mercury pollution in the Intumak reservoir, as well as long
term support for the development and implementation ofa comprehensive water quality monitoring
program. Water quality monitoring will address risks associated with the possibility of occasional
recontamination of the river as a result of any residual mercury depositions and/or periodic high flood
levels.

Component 4: Project Management and Monitoring ($2.53 million). This component would cover a
number of activities related to project management and monitoring. One part of the component would
finance the incremental operating costs of the Project Management Unit (PMU) which would be
established to oversee and coordinate project implementation. A second part would finance technical
assistance to the PMU, providing (i) training in areas such as procurement, disbursement, and project
accounting, (ii) auditing of project accounts, (iii) assistance in the implementation of the environmental
management plan, especially with regard to public awareness; and (iv) specialist assistance in areas such
as hydrology, social sciences, and environmental management.

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:

Policyreforms
The project will support work being undertaken by the British Department for International Development
(DFID) to reform Kazakhstan's Water Code and to develop a water resources management plan for the
Nura River Basin. This in turn supports a government initiative to develop a National Resources
Management Plan, which will address, inter alia, Water Resources Development, Pollution Control, and
Environmental Remediation. The amended Water Code, which has recently been submitted to the
Council of Ministers for review, will provide a more comprehensive framework for proper water
management in the nation, particularly with regard to the financial sustainability and independence ofthe
CWR and the River Basin Authorities.




                                                      -9-

Institutionalreforms
Completion of the Intumak Dam would allow more effective management of water resources in the Nura
River Basin. However, in order to optimize the use of water resources and to make efficient investment
decisions, the current institutional framework for water resources management needs to be strengthened.
Effective coordination of the activities of the water resources and environmental agencies and the
transition of the Nura-Sarysu River Basin Commission into a full-fledged river basin organization with
the capacity and authority to implement recommended actions is expected to be a slow and long term
process. The project intends to aid this process by (i) improving the planning capacity of the existing
river basin department, (ii) strengthening capacity for monitoring water quantity and quality, including
assessing health risks and consequences, where relevant (iii) improving the pollution control system
including long-term supervision of a contaminated landfil, and (iv) bringing together the regional water
resources and environmental authorities to work jointly in implementing the proposed project.

3. Beneflts and target population:

The benefits ofthe project would derive from the project's intended outcomes: (i) removing serious
mercury pollution in and adjacent to the Nura River, providing a safe, secure and cost effective source of
water supply to meet growing needs of local water users, and (ii) improving flow control in the river for
flood management and ecological purposes. In particular, the project would benefit: i)the residents of
Temirtau City by increasing their ecological safety as a result ofthe containment of mercury pollution
from the AO Karbide factory; ii) current rural residents whose health is at risk as a result oftheir using
the Nura River as a direct drinking water source and for fishing and crop irrigation; iii) the residents of
Astana City (currently estimated at 375,000 people), by providing them with a second source of water
from the Nura River, that is less expensive than the current arrangements based on the Ishim River and
the Irtysh-Karaganda Canal; iv) the residents of Temirtau and Karaganda (currently about 600,000
people), who currently rely on water from a combination of the Irtysh-Karaganda Canal, groundwater
sources and the Nura River, by making available a less expensive and regular source of water; v)
recreational visitors, including fishermen and hunters, along the Nura River banks and the buffer zone of
the Kurgaldzhino Wetlands protected area; and vi) those members ofthe community who value
biodiversity protection by improving Nura River water quality, which will reduce biodiversity
degradation in the Kurgaldzhino Wetlands.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:

The project is expected to be implemented over a period of six years, from Sepember 2003 until March
2009. The Loan Closing Date would be September 30, 2009. Disbursements are expected to conform
fairly closely to standard disbursement profiles for projects of this duration, with the exception ofabove
average disbursement in the initial years owing to the urgency of remediation works at the AO Karbide
plant site, and a possible hiatus in mid-project prior to the commencement ofcivil works at Intumak
Dam.

Executing Agency and llmplementation Arrangements. The Committee for Water Resources (CWR),
under the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), would have overall responsibility for project implementation.
General oversight would be provided by an Inter-Ministerial Committee which has been established to
oversee the implementation ofthe NEAP, and which includes representation from the Ministry ofthe
Environment and the Ministry of Economy.

Committee for Water Resources. The CWR, a national agency, carries out water resources planning and
management on a basin basis and regulates the interests ofall branches, including ecological and water
supply infrastructure requirements. The Chairman ofthe CWR would be responsible for coordinating
project implementation with concerned Ministries and other relevant agencies, including local authorities


                                                    - 10-

and local environmental agencies.

Project Management Unit. Within the CWR, a Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established,
headed by a Technical Coordinator (TC), to carry out day-to-day management of the project. The PMU
will be located in Astana within the CWR, and will handle the project's financial management system,
undertake the evaluation of bids, and prepare loan withdrawal applications. The TC will also supervise a
team of technical specialists to be located in Karaganda, within the premises ofthe Nura River Basin
Authority, whose function will be to oversee the technical day-to-day implementation of civil works,
water quality and soil monitoring and establishment and operation ofthe landfill associated with the
clean-up of mercury under the proposed project.

The PMU would be supported by a team of international engineering specialists with strong experience
in project management, who would assist with procurement and with contract management and
supervision, including inspection and acceptance of works and authorization of payment certificates,
which they would pass through the TC to the Chairman of the CWR for approval and processing.
Funding for Design and Construction Supervision has been included in the budget for the mercury
clean-up component of the Project.

The PMU would be financed through the CWR's budget, to be approved by the Ministry of Finance,
beginning in calendar year 2004. The TC has already been appointed and grant funds are currently being
used to support him and other PMU staff during project preparation. A satisfactory Project
Implementation Plan and Operations Manual have been prepared and reviewed by the Bank.

Public Consultative Group (PCG). The group formed during the public consultations ofthe EIA under
the leadership of the Deputy Akim of Karaganda and local members of the Mazhilis would be formalized
and expanded. It would serve as a mechanism to keep the local population informed of project activities
and progress and would provide a forum for dialogue between the public, NGOs, the Director ofthe Nura
River Basin Authority, and the PMU. The PCG would also provide input into performance monitoring
with respect to the project's environmental and social development goals by providing feedback on
project issues and proposing revisions, ifnecessary, to ongoing project support activities.

International Expert Advisory Group. An international team of experts would be formed, consisting of
specialists in fields such as mercury toxicology, risk assessment, environmental impact assessment,
hydrology, public health and ground remediation engineering, to provide advice on project activities and
monitoring. This group would also be responsible for reviewing the findings and recommendations
arising from the monitoring ofpollution levels in the Intumak Reservoir and reviewing the recommended
program for dam and reservoir rehabilitation.

Implementation Progress Reporting. The PMU would submit quarterly reports in an appropriate
format to the CWR and MoA, the Inter-Ministerial Committee, and the Bank, no later than three weeks
after the end of each quarter. The quarterly report would cover the progress and expected completion
date for civil works and equipment/goods contracts, progress on institutional components, training and
studies, and activities of the PMU's engineering, monitoring and evaluation, procurement and financial
consultants. The PMU would also submit annual reports to the same bodies no later than January 31 of
each year. The report will contain two sections, an annual progress report and an annual work plan.
Quarterly reports and press releases associated with critical milestones of the project would also be
submitted to the public consultative body.

Procurement. (See Annex 6). Civil works, goods and technical assistance financed by the Loan will be



                                                   - 11 -

procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The general strategy for project implementation is to
procure the equipment, civil works and services in larger packages, making contractors responsible for
supply and installation of equipment. This would minimize coordination needs on the part of the
implementing agency and simplify project implementation, thereby reducing the risk of project delays.
Details of the procurement arrangements are given in Annex 6.

Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing. A preliminary Financial Management Capacity
Assessment (FMCA) was carried out for the project in December of2002, and updated in February,
2003. Necessary improvements for strengthening the financial management capacity of the project
entities were identified and discussed with the counterparts as part ofthe FMCA. These improvements
have been implemented. The Bank's Financial Management Specialist has certified the project as meeting
minimum financial management requirements of the Bank.

FinancialManagementSystem: It is proposed that project accounts and financial reporting to the Bank
will be the responsibility of the PMU. At the time ofthe FMS assessment, the proposed financial
management systems, including organizational structure, internal controls, accounting, and reporting fell
short of fully satisfying the financial management requirements of the Bank. A modified system has
since been established which will: (i) have appropriate internal controls; (ii) reliably record and report all
assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the project; and (iii) provide sufficient financial
information for managing and monitoring project activities. Project Financial Management Reports
(FMRs) will be submitted to the Bank quarterly and annually. Formats of the FMRs and the timing of
submission of the first FMR were confirmed at negotiations. Detailed accounts will be kept for each
project component. Appropriate staffing for financial management functions (including training and
technical assistance as required) was discussed under the FMCA.

Auditing: The project financial statements, the Special Account, and Statements of Expenditure (SOE)
will be audited annually during project implementation, in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (ISA), by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the audit report will
be submitted to the Bank within six months ofthe close of the Borrower's fiscal year. Terns of
Reference and selection of the auditor will be reviewed by the Bank every year. Costs of the project audit
are included in the Project Management component of the project. However, because the Ministry of
Finance has chosen to contract for audits of all projects and implementing agencies under an umbrella
arrangement, procurement ofauditors will be carried out at the level ofthe Ministry rather than the PMU.

Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Project monitoring indicators have been identified (see Annex l)
and agreed with the Borrower. The Borrower had determined base values for each of these indicators,
and submitted them to the Bank. Values ofthese indicators will be updated each year, and forwarded as
part of the annual implementation progress report.

A monitoring plan will be implemented under the project to gather data on: mercury fate in the Intuinak
Reservoir, population health, mercury releases, bioassay health, etc. which will provide the means to
carefully monitor the impact ofproject interventions in the short-, medium- and long-term.

Bank supervision of the project will include physical inspection ofthe progress ofimplementation works,
review ofprocurement, disbursement and accounting activities, review of progress with respect to
institutional reforms, and interim evaluation of progress against monitoring indicators. On completion of
the project, the Bank and Borrower will jointly prepare an Implementation Completion Report.


D. Project Rationale



                                                       - 12 -

1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:

Do nothing. An argument can be made that the latent mercury should be left undisturbed both at the AO
Karbide plant site and in the topsoil along the banks and floodplains of the Nura River. However, the
risk analysis done during the feasibility study indicated that this option should be rejected due to the
increasing risk that the mercury cannot remain contained. Mercury currently contained in the AO
Karbide plant's buildings could be released in the short-term if the roof collapses. In addition, mercury
hot spots on the riverbanks and floodplain are likely to further contaminate the water during spring
floods. The do-nothing scenario also ignores the medium-term need for an alternate water supply for
Astana, which requires remediation of the mercury contamination in the Nura and measures to protect the
river from further contamination.

Focus on AO Karbide plant site only. Another option is to focus only on the immediate need for
environmental remediation of the AO Karbide plant site, without any intervention in restoring the
floodplains or riverbanks. The feasibility study indicates, however, that there are hotspots with very high
mercury concentrations in the floodplain and in some sections of the Nura River's banks. These sites
should be remediated in order to ensure potability ofNura River water and to avoid contamination of the
water supply from floods.

Focus on clean-up only Consideration was also given to limiting the project to the clean-up ofmercury
contamination. However, the rehabilitation of Intumak Dam is an important component of the project,
not only in that it would serve as a sediment trap for any residual volumes of mercury that found their
way into the river, but also because of the potential economic and ecological benefits of being able to
implement an integrated program of flow management in the Nura Basin using the dam and reservoir
capacity at Intumak.

Technical options for remediation. Technical options for remediation of the contaminated areas include
in-situ remediation, excavation, and isolation. Due to the significant amounts of chemicals and/or energy
that would be needed, and the location of the contaminated soil in the riverbeds and banks of the Nura,
in-situ remediation is not feasible. Isolation is not favored since the groundwater would remain
vulnerable. The feasibility study recommends removal and safe storage.

Landfill siting. Various sites for the landfill were considered in the EA. The proposed Opan site was
selected based on many considerations, including transportation, geology, hydrogeology, natural habitats,
social impacts, and development cost.




                                                    - 13-

Alternative water supplv sources for Astana. Incremental pumping of water from the Irtysh-Karaganda
Canal, while technically feasible, carries a high cost (estimated operating costs are in the order ofUS$
0.27 per cubic meter), and does not offer a fully independent altemative supply. Groundwater resources
in the vicinity suffer from high salinity levels, and would be prohibitively costly to treat to a level
suitable for human consumption.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).

                        - .-                                      : -.:--    .-- -Latest _
                                                                                  .   .=tSupsl6ohi:_
               Sector'o     ~  -_  .-          -.  :.                                (-Pt)ianc

                                                                             Implamentalon       Development

 Bank-financed                                                                Progress (IP) Objective (DO)
 Environment, Water Resources              Regional: GEF Aral Sea Water             S                 S
 Management                                and Environmental
                                           Management
 Environment, Water Resources              Kazakhstan: Syr Darya Control            S                 S
 Management                                and Northern Aral Sea Phase 1
                                           Project
Water Supply                               Kazakhstan: Pilot Water                  S                 S
                                           Supply Project
 Water Supply and Sanitation               Kazakhstan: Atyrau Pilot                 S                 S
                                           Water Supply and Sanitation
                                           Project
Water Supply and Sanitation                Kazakhstan: Northeast Water
                                           Supply and Sanitation Project
                                           (under preparation)
Water supply, sewerage                     Armenia municipal water and              S                 S
                                           Waste waster
Environment                                Azerbaijan - Urgent                      S                 S
                                           Environmental Investment
                                           Project
Environment, water and sanitation          Bulgaria - Environmental                 S                  S
                                           Remediation Pilot Project
Environment, water supply, sewerage        Lithuania - Siauliai                     S                  S
                                           Environment Project
Water supply and sanitation, flood         Georgia - Tbilisi Water Supply           S                  S
                                           and Sanitation Project
Water, sanitation and flood protection     Azerbaijan - Greater Baku                S                 S
                                           Water Supply Rehabilitation
                                           Project
Water, sanitation and flood protection     Croatia - Istria Water Supply            S                 S
                                           and Sewerage Project
Other development agencies
EU/TACIS Environment                       Regional: Water Resources
                                           Management and Agricultural
                                           Production Project
UNDP/GEF Environment                       Kazakhstan :Integrated



                                                     - 14 -

                                            Conservation of Globally
                                            Significant Migratory Bird
                                            Wetland Habitats
 USAID Water Supply                         Rehabilitate Aralsk and
                                            Kazalinsk pumping stations
 Degremont (French) Water Supply            Rehabilitate parts of the water
                                            system of the town of
                                            Kzyl-Orda
 JBlC/JICA         -                        Astana Water Supply
IP/DO Ratings- HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)

3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:

Experience from project implementation in Kazakhstan and other Central Asian countries has shown
that: i) rigorous economic and environmental criteria should be applied in project planning and design; ii)
project scope and design should take into account the difficulties in coordinating among key government
agencies; iii) competent and efficient national management staff is necessary and should be recruited
prior to project effectiveness to ensure the viability and sustainability ofthe project; iv) timely provision
ofcounterpart funding is imperative; v) provision oftimely and adequate technical assistance is essential;
vi) procurement, financial management and construction quality control need to be given proper
emphasis in project implementation; and, vii) local institutions need to be fully involved in project
preparation and design.

This project has taken these lessons into account in both preparation and design by: i) hiring international
consultants to undertake thorough economic, environmental and social analyses, vetting their conclusions
with broad consultations and workshops, and including local consultants in all activities; ii) making
extensive use of the Inter-Ministerial Committee to ensure coordination; iii) ensuring that the PMU will
be staffed adequately prior to effectiveness; iv) verifying that, given the recent revenue receipts by the
Government, adequate counterpart resources are not likely to be a constraint and the budget process is
followed for inclusion ofthe loan in the Government budget; v) ensuring that competent training and
technical assistance is provided in support of project implementation, procurement, monitoringIand
supervision; and, vi) integrating local counterparts into each team during project preparation and design,
and ensuring that all relevant stakeholders have been included in the decision-making meetings of the
Inter-Ministerial Committee. Because of the risks and uncertainties inherent in the proposed project, an
intemational engineering consultant firm has been engaged to prepare detailed engineering design and
bidding documents. In addition, intemational experts will be engaged to provide guidance on technical
issues such as mercury methylation processes and toxicology and dam safety issues.

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:

The borrower is strongly committed to the project, considering it a high priority invesiment due to: i) its
environmental benefit; and ii) the long-term need for an altemate drinking water supply for the capital
city. This commitment is demonstrated by the fact that the borrower has: i) obtained PHRD funds to
undertake project preparation work; and ii) obtained JEP financing to prepare detailed engineering
designs and bidding documents. The Government proposes to include the project in its public investment
program for 2004, and has provided written indication of this intention as a condition of Board
Presentation of the project. The Government has also taken steps to ensure ownership of a landfill site
appropriate to hold contaminated soil and other residue from clean-up activities.

5. Value added of Bank support in this project:



                                                       - 15 -

This is an environmentally sensitive project, which requires international expertise in risk assessment,
engineering, and impact assessment, as well as proper operation and monitoring and evaluation. The
Bank has coordinated many specialized teams of consultants, funded through various mechanisms, to
help guide the government. Mercury pollution is a unique problem, and as such, successful remediation
relies upon international expertise and advice. Bank involvement is critical, since it: i) introduces
intemational best practice into the design and implementation ofenvironmental remediation and water
management projects; ii) results in improved quality of project design and implementation, particularly in
environmental management and stakeholder involvement; iii) ensures proper technical standards for
remediation efforts and operation and maintenance; iv) provides support for the introduction of
intemational best practice in pollution management systems and regulatory frameworks; v) strengthens
appropriate procurement procedures, leading to more competitive bidding and lower costs; and vi)
strengthens the CWR's implementation capacity.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)

11.Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit         NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The proposed project represents a cost-effective solution to two issues: (i) the need to remove hazardous
mercury deposits from the AO Karbide plant site and from the flood plains of the Nura River, and (ii)
the need to provide a secure and safe drinking water supply to residents of Astana as well as communities
adjacent to the river. With respect to the first issue, detailed studies were carried out during project
preparation to (i) define an appropriate level of intervention based on an assessment of the costs of
adopting altemative standards with respect to cleanup versus the risks that untreated sites would lead to
unacceptable dissemination of pollutants; and (ii) identify an optimum site for the landfill based on
tradeoffs between the cost of development and maintenance versus the cost of transporting contaminated
materials to the site. The proposed project is being engineered on the basis of these findings.

With respect to the second issue, removing mercury pollution from the Nura River, together with
implementation of a proper water management regime in the Basin, the project represents the most
cost-effective means ofaugmenting the water supply for the city ofAstana. The current water source,
the Ishim River, does not provide adequate flow to meet the needs ofprojected population levels. If the
Nura River is judged unacceptable owing to mercury contamination, it would be necessary to pump
additional water from the Irtysh-Karaganda canal in order to ensure long-term water supply. The
ongoing cost of pumping incremental water from the Irtysh River (over an elevation change of450
meters) to the Viacheslav Reservoir is estimated at approximately US$ 0.16 per cubic meter, while the
cost of transporting incremental water from the Reservoir to the city is estimated at $0.1 1 per cubic
meter. By contrast, the Nura could provide up to 90 million cubic meters per year ofadditional water
(equivalent to approximately 90 percent ofprojected demands) to Astana at a cost ofapproximately US$
0.07 per cubic meter.

In addition to the cost effectiveness analysis, analytical work was carried out to quantify the potential
magnitude of water supply benefits that might accrue as a result of better water quality and flow
management. Quantifiable benefits of the project are highly probabilistic, depending on hydrology, the
rate of rehabilitation of water supply systems in Astana, Karaganda and Temirtau, and the rate of demand
growth (which is in turn partially dependent on demand management programs). Within these
parameters, the project's quantifiable benefits derive from the avoided cost of drawing water from the
Irtysh-Karaganda Canal. Based on conservative assumptions with respect to the extent to which the Nura



                                                     - 16-

clean-up could lead to avoided use of the Irtysh-Karaganda system, the project could, on completion,
result in annual net savings in the cost of water supply averaging US$ 5.2 million for Astana, $6.7
million for Temirtau, and $6.8 million for Karaganda. Present Value of these benefits (at 12% discount
rate) would total US$ 76.9 million through to 2018.


While water supply cost savings represent the primary quantifiable benefits of the project, there are also
measurable benefits, in terms of willingness to pay, associated with regularity of water supply, access to
recreation and hunting opportunities, and enhanced biodiversity. These benefits are estimated to have an
PV of $3.2 million through to 2018. Including all benefits, NPV for the project, after deducting capital
and operating costs, would be $30.6 million - yielding an ERR of22.7%. Given the uncertainties
surrounding water water supply benefits, switching values were computed, and it was found that the
project's ERR would still exceed 12% if water supply benefits fell to 49% of the value estimated above.


2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 24.9 million; FRR = 17.2 % (see Annex 4)
The mercury clean up program is expected to be financed from public investment funds. In keeping with
the Government's policy of financial self-sufficiency for water supply utilities, capital and operating costs
ofconnecting the Astana water supply system to the Nura River would be financed through user charges.

Financial benefits of the project would parallel the quantifiable economic benefits related to lower-cost
water supply. The flow of these benefits is uncertain. Insofar as water users pay the full costs ofwater
supply, savings would flow to user groups. However, to the extent that the government is obliged to
provide subsidies in order to offset the exceedingly high cost of Irtysh-Karaganda water supply, financial
benefits could flow to the government in the form of savings in required transfers to water users.
Without reference to the flow of benefits, the Net Present Value of the financial cash flows (at 10 percent
discount rate) is estimated at US$ 24.9 million over the period ofthe loan, and the FRR at 17.2 percent.


Fiscal Impact:

The mercury clean-up program will be financed from the central government budget, as will the ongoing
operations of the various water resources management agencies. As such, the central goverrnment will be
expected both to finance the local share of project funding (including ongoing operations and
monitoring) and also to cover the debt service costs of the IBRD loan. The total amounts to be paid out
by the Government over the life of the project include: (i) US$ 24.6 million in investment costs, of
which $11.3 million is taxes; (ii) recurrent costs of US$ 3.9 million, and (iii) debt service of US$55.8
million of which US$15.4 million is interest and commitment fees. Incremental fiscal impacts include
the estimated project cost, including interest and other service charges, less the VAT and customs duties
that have been included in the cost estimate but which would accrue to the central government. The Net
Present Value of this cost stream over the period of the loan is US$ 36.7 million (based on a discount rate
of 10%), with a maximum impact of US$8.2 million in year 6 of the project (assuming debt repayment
terms of 15 years, including 5 years grace, at an interest rate of 5%). On the positive side, the budget
may, as a result of the project, avoid the cost associated with pumping additional water from the
Irtysh-Karaganda Canal to meet the growing water supply requirements of Astana. While these costs
could arguably be passed on in the forn of user fees, the marginal cost of water associated with this
supply option (approximately US$ 0.27 per cubic meter) is likely to be beyond the financial capacity of
most users, and as such it may be necessary for the government to provide a capital, and possibly an
operating subsidy.

3. Technical:
From the technical perspective, the proposed project design is relatively straightforward, using



                                                    - 17 -

established technologies for each of the main components.

*        Mercury Clean-Up. The technology chosen for the mercury cleanup is simple excavation, due to
the dispersed nature of the contamination and the fact that large volumes of chemicals and/or energy
would be needed to undertake in-situ remediation. Excavation practices and transport to the landfill will
be conducted under strict conditions, ensuring worker and public safety as well as environmental
protection. An expert consultant will be hired to oversee operations.
*        Dam Rehabilitation. The dam repair works indicate specific measures that must be undertaken in
order to rehabilitate the Intumak Reservoir. No major technical challenges are expected.
*        Landfill Design. A modular design has been selected for the landfill, located in an appropriate
site vis-a-vis potential groundwater and air pollution.

There are some technical uncertainties related to the construction of the spillway and gates at Intumak
(see Section Cl). During project preparation, the concem was raised that proposals to increase the
operating capacity of the Intumak Reservoir (in order to provide additional seasonal storage ofwater)
could lead to more serious environmental problems in the form of increased methylation of mercury
deposits that have accumulated in the bottom of the reservoir. It was agreed that, as a precuationary
measure, additional monitoring and expert analysis would be carried out before undertaking any civil
works, and expert consensus on the safety of raising the reservoir operating level without first removing
mercury deposition will be a condition for any disbursement against dam civil works. Provision has also
been made in the cost estimate for this component to finance any additional dredging/soil removal that
may be recommended based on the results of the monitoring and expert assessment.

4. I[nstitutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:

The State Committee for Water Resources (CWR) under the Ministry of Agriculture would be the
executing agency for the project, on behalf of the Government. The CWR is organized on a basin level,
operating through basin water management agencies, which in turn depend on oblast and regional
committees to administer regulations and standards and manage projects. Within the project area, the
CWR exercises its responsibilities through the Astana and Karaganda Regional Water Resources
Committees and the Ishim and Nura-Sarysu River Basin Authorities. The CWR would have primary
responsibility for project coordination and would implement the project through the PMU.

The major limitations of the current institutional structure may be summarized as follows: (i)
organizational capacities to address institutional, economic, social and technical issues are weak and do
not match well with assigned responsibilities; (ii) budgetary resources are not adequate to sustain
monitoring activities; during past years agencies have been forced to cut staff as well as the number of
monitoring stations and number of samples for analysis, and stop conducting verification of information
provided by users (i.e. water intakes and waste discharges); and (iii) lack of information sharing and
exchange among agencies precludes comprehensive planning. These issues are addressed through the
proposed implementation arrangements and through institutional support (see section C4 above).

4.2 Project management:

The PMU, under the CWR, will have its main offices in Astana. However, a branch office will be
located in Karaganda in order to ensure close day-to-day supervision of the project, and coordination
with local stakeholders. Proposed staffing of the PMU in Astana includes a technical coordinator,
financial specialist, disbursements office, procurement specialist, and public relations advisor. The
technical coordinator and procurement consultant are currently in place, together with an accountant.


                                                    - 18 -

 Staff in Karaganda at any given time will depend on the then-current needs ofthe project. However,
provision is made for a full-time specialist in basin management and social science, and half-time
involvement of specialists in hydrology, environment, and water quality.

4.3 Procurement issues:

Procurement will be carried out in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The proposed procurement plan is
outlined in Annex 6. The general strategy is to procure the equipment, civil works and services in larger
packages, making contractors responsible for supply and installation of equipment. This would minimize
coordination needs on the part of the implementing agency and simplify project implementation,
mitigating the risk of project delays.


The Government proposes to finance all consulting services, training and incremental operating costs,
using Bank Guidelines and agreed procedures as set out in Annex 6. The Bank, at its discretion, may
monitor the work as necessary to satisfy themselves that it is being carried out according to appropriate
standards, and is based on acceptable data. The Government has agreed to take into account Bank's
comments in this regard to ensure satisfactory project implementation in terms ofcost, quality, and
completion time.

Any procurement of civil works related to the rehabilitation of the Intumak dam and reservoir would be
conditional on completion of detailed monitoring and analysis of mercury pollution within the reservoir,
and the positive recommendations of the International Expert Advisory Group with respect to the design
ofthe rehabilitation component.

4.4 Financial management issues:

An assessment ofthe Financial Management arrangements for the Project was undertaken during 18 to
19 December 2002 (updates of the FMAC were conducted in February 2003 and April 2003) to
determine whether the financial management (FM) arrangements are acceptable to the Bank. It is
concluded that the PMU currently satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.

5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Sunmmarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

The proposed cleanup project has been classified as a Category A project, since it could cause significant
environmental impacts affecting an area broader than the sites or facilities subject to remediation. The
Committee for Water Resources procured the services of an independent team of intemational and
domestic environmental consultants with extensive international experience in both Environmental
Assessment (EA) and contaminated site cleanup. The EA team consulted with the World Bank, local
stakeholders, and local and regional government authorities. The EA report was submitted to Infoshop,
and the Executive Summary was provided to the Executive Directors in May, 2002. The final EA (with
small revisions) was submitted in October 2002.


Contaminated ground cleanup is a complex process, and less predictable or amenable to conventional
engineering project management than are other types of pollution control or infrastructure development.
This is especially true where a large number and diversity of sites must be addressed over a broad area,
and where the primary contaminant of concem is toxic, mobile, persistent and bioaccumulative. The
need for careful planning, specialized precautions, and mitigating measures to prevent, minimize or
respond to inadvertent releases of mercury compounds and associated pollutants are all key concems of
the Environmental Assessment (EA) and Environmental Management Plan (EMP).

5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?



                                                    - 19 -

The EMP presents thorough mitigation measures applicable to the stages of mercury contamination
cleanup recommended in the final Feasibility Study. These include:
*         Site management and institutional controls - limiting access to cleanup sites and restricting land
and water uses where appropriate
         Health and safety protection for cleanup workers and nearby residents - medical monitoring,
airborne mercury monitoring, personnel training, use of personal protective equipment, decontamination
of equipment, communications
         Contingency planning and emergency response - on-site emergency response, community
emergency response, incident reporting, practicing responses, first aid procedures and equipment,
training, spill control and countermeasure plan
         Mitigation measures for removing mercury from buildings - recommended tools and techniques,
including vacuum technology and cleanup kits, specialized for mercury removal
*        Soil removal mitigation measures - timing of operations to avoid wet weather, flooding and high
winds; covering of excavation areas and stockpiled soils to prevent mercury vapor and dust emissions
and rain erosion, underlining of soil stockpiles to prevent leaching into clean soil and groundwater,
installation of berms and ditches to control surface water run-on and run-off
*        Soil transport mitigation measures - waste characterization and segregation, labeling and
manifesting of trucks, safe loading and unloading, wetting wastes and covering trucks with canopies to
prevent dust generation, emergency response, truck decontamination, truck maintenance
*        Landfill mitigation measures - separate landfill cells for wastes with high moisture and/or high
concentrations of mercury, liners equivalent to international standards; further evaluation of the need for
leachate and gas collection and treatment; cover meeting international standards, waste analysis and
acceptance procedures, facility inspection plan, contingency and emergency response plan, personnel
training plan, environmental monitoring plan, and closure and post-closure plan.

The EMP also outlines a series of environmental monitoring programs, aimed at measuring
contamination in air, soil, surface water, sediments, ground water, drinking water, fish, crops, livestock,
and humans before, during and after cleanup. Monitoring pararneters, locations, frequencies and
methods are provided for each cleanup program activity.

A program of capacity building is proposed, including organizational development, staffing, training and
equipment procurement relating to health and safety, contingency planning and emergency response,
environmental mitigation and monitoring, and social assessment and public consultation.
Institutional arrangements, schedules and costs for implementing the mitigation, monitoring and capacity
building measures are also provided. Implementation will be accomplished primarily through a project
management structure led by CWR/BVO and supported by staff ofrelevant government agencies
seconded to the project and domestic and international consultants.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                    Date of receipt of final draft: July, 2002
The first draft EA was submitted to the Bank for comment in April, 2002. The draft Final Feasibility
Study with alternative landfill options was presented to the Bank in June, 2002. Based on this
information, an update of the EA was completed and submitted to the Bank in July, 2002. A slightly
amended version incorporating minor editorial revisions was received in October, 2002.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

Copies ofthe Executive Summary of the Draft Final EA were distributed, in Russian, to attendees ofthe
final public hearings in Temirtau and Karaganda, and were available to the public through EcoCenter of



                                                     - 20 -

Karaganda. Copies of all versions of the EA were presented in Russian to the Committee for Water
Resources; and the English version of the EA was made available through the World Bank's Infoshop in
May and again in July, 2002.

The public consultation process included hiring a local coordinator, and bringing local NGOs and
government officials into the planning process. Initial public meetings were held in early February 2002
in Karaganda and Temirtau cities; a final public meeting was held in late April 2002 on the Draft EA,
and mechanisms were developed to facilitate ongoing public consultation on the project through the
implementation phase. A large number of local government officials, academics, students and NGO
representatives attended the initial public meetings. Meetings were also attended by the MP from
Karaganda, representing environmental interests in the local Parliament. The project and EA process
were described; and comments were solicited on the scope and key issues. Participation and discussion
were excellent. Major comments related to the agencies responsible for the project; the analytical and
decision-making processes, project financing, cleanup approaches and technologies, and their      respective
environmental impacts. Lists of attendees and summaries of their questions and concerns were prepared
(see EA, Appendix C, Record of Public Meetings) and were addressed in the EA. Section 7 of the EA
provides a summary of the responses to public comments.

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact ofthe project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?

The EMP establishes a detailed monitoring plan for the excavation and storage phases ofthe project.
Mitigation actions will be incorporated into the contracts with firms carrying out the landfill construction
and clean-up components of the project, and a firm specializing in project management will be engaged
to ensure adherence to the mitigation program. The EMP also highlights the need for comprehensive
environmental monitoring of the river basin as a whole, including collection of environmental health
data. The implementation of the monitoring program is included in the institution-strengthening
component of the project. Performance covenants within the Loan Agreement will address the
implementation of recommended mitigation, monitoring and capacity building measures. Reporting on
the EMP is included in project reporting requirements in Annex 1.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

A social assessment of the state of water resources in the Nura River Basin was undertaken with TACIS
financing. The report, dated June 2001, indicated that local residents and officials were extremely
concerned about the condition of the Nura, which in their opinion has become a "gutter". They believed
this problem is of national importance and asked for immediate action, not only from the government of
Kazakhstan, but also from foreign organizations. The majority ofrespondents interviewed felt that public
awareness of the pollution problems in the Nura River was inadequate and that more efforts should be
made to disseminate information. A number of respondents, primarily specialists, felt that it was a waste
of time to clean the river, since it would never be clean enough for household consumption.

As noted in Section C3, the project's social development outcomes include: i) reduced ecological risk to
residents of Temirtau as a result of the containment/removal ofmercury pollution from the AO Karbide
factory; ii) reduced health risk to those residents who continue to use the Nura River as a direct drinking
water source and for fishing and crop irrigation; iii) a less costly source of safe drinking water for the
residents of Astana City, Temirtau and Karaganda, who currently rely at least in part on water from the
Irtysh-Karaganda Canal, and (iv) reduced biodiversity degradation in the Kurgaldzhino Wetlands.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?



                                                    -21 -

In addition to the social assessment described above, other efforts were made to include key stakeholders
in project design and preparation. An Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee was formed in March 2001
by State Decree #264, and a number of meetings have already been held. As part of the EIA process,
public hearings, some of the first ever to be held in the region, were held in Karaganda and Temirtau.
The hearings were very successful, significantly increasing public awareness of problems associated with
the Nura River and allowing participants to discuss different alternatives for cleaning-up the mercury in
the water. The process also served to demonstrate to participants the purpose of holding public hearings,
a relatively new concept in Kazakhstan.

The project intends to ensure that stakeholders continue to be given the opportunity to participate in
project preparation, and in the longer term, in implementation, monitoring and evaluation. As noted in
C4, the group formed during the public consultations of the EIA under the leadership of the Deputy Akim
ofKaraganda and local members of the Mazhilis would be fornalized and expanded, and would serve as
a mechanism to keep the local population informed of project activities and progress and as a forum for
dialogue between the public, NGOs, the Director of the Nura River Basin Authority, and the PMU. The
PCG would also provide input into performance monitoring with respect to the project's environmental
and social development goals by providing feedback on project issues and proposing revisions, if
necessary, to ongoing project support activities.

The project cost estimate also provides for the financing of national and intemational specialists in public
relations, who will be responsible for designing and disseminating an information program aimed at
keeping stakeholders informed of the project's progress and outcomes.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

Non-govermmental organizations participated in project preparation through the public hearings process,
and it is intended that they will continue to participate in ongoing public consultations during the
implementation and monitoring stages. The Public Consultative Group that has been established to
facilitate stakeholder consultation and information will provide an ongoing forum for NGO participation.
On special issues (e.g. local health moniroing, biodiversity and wildlife impacts), NGOs involved in
these areas will be consulted directly.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

Some of the social development outcomes of the project are passive in nature (e.g. reduced health risks as
a result of removing sources of mercury pollution), and hence depend on the effective implementation of
the proposed work program. Prequalification of bidders, transparent selection processes, and
independent supervision will help to ensure that these outcomes are achieved. Other social development
outcomes require measures apart from the effective implementation of civil works. Access to low cost
water supply needs to be paired with a program to build public confidence in the safety ofNura River
water. To this end, the project includes, in addition to the public relations program described above,
significant investment in the development of a comprehensive water quality monitoring network, and
training of local staff in its use. The environmental management plan that has been prepared for the
project includes measures to ensure that formal and informal institutional organizations work effectively
together during the development, implementation and monitoring of the project. This will help to ensure
that any adverse social outcomes of project implementation are quickly identified and rectified.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?




                                                     - 22 -

Since the focus of the project is on improving the quality of life for people living in theNura River Basin
by reducing exposure to mercury and eventually providing clean water, indicators to monitor      social
impacts and social development outcomes are inherent in the project indicators. Specific indicators     will
include water quality in the basin, risks ofpublic exposure to mercury contamination,     and the cost and
quality of household water supply.


7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are an of the follovx ing safeguard policies triggered by the prcject?
                                   -..
                                   Policy .T.                              ;    ---    Triggeed:
                                                                                         r.
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                        *   Yes U No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                U Yes * No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                 U Yes * No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   U Yes * No

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                               U Yes a No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                U Yes * No

    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        U) Yes * No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            * Yes U No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 * Yes U No
     Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                     U Yes * No


7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable       safeguard policies.

Environmental Assessment. The project triggers OP 4.01 and is rated A; thus an Environmental
Assessment has been undertaken for the project (see Section E.5. above. The EA has been        submitted to
and reviewed by the Bank, and is in full compliance with Bank guidelines (including public      consultation
and disclosure). A copy ofthe Executive Summary is provided in Annex 11. The overall EA complies
with the Envrionmental Assessement safeguard policy (OP4.0 1). EA Sections 3.1.7-9 and 4.3.2        address
compliance with the Natural Habitats safeguard policy (OP4.04). The Cultural Property safeguard        policy
(OPN1 1.03) will be addressed during the detailed design stage through the development of a "chance
find" protocol that can be utilized during project implementation. Mercury is highly toxic; therefore, the
EMP focuses on proper management of exposure during excavation and containment at the landfill.
Proper long-term operation and monitoring of the landfill will ensure that the project has a positive
environmental impact. The project includes a component to establish a monitoring system and
strengthen water management, with a view toward providing the downstream,         protected, Kurgaldzhino
wetlands with 100% of needed ecological flow. The quality of the water entering the wetlands will be
much better as a consequence of this project.

 Safety of Dams. (Annex 12) Effective water management within the Nura Basin depends on the
 operation of three reservoirs: Intumak, Samarkand and Sherubianur. A dam safety      assessment was
 undertaken by intemational experts at Intumak dam. According to the Dam Safety Report prepared by
 Posch and Partners, the Intumak dam needs important rehabilitation measures, including completion of
 the spillway. Providing a positive water retention element to the Intumak dam body and within its
 foundations is another key element of the rehabilitation works both safety- and cost-wise. An
 intemational expert will be recruited to minimize uncertainties inherent in rehabilitating an existing
 structure. Priority safety-related interventions will be implemented by the project. Dam safety
 assessments have also been carried out at Samarkand and Sherubianur dams (although these two dams
 have been certified as safe by the Kazakh Commission on Dam Safety). The reports recommend that the
 physical and operating parameters for the dams be clarified and updated, that the operating rules be



                                                      -23 -

amended, if necessary, based on these updated assessments, and that additional preparedness planning
and monitoring activities be carried out. The Borrower has agreed to undertake the proposed remedial
measures.

Integrated water resource management considerations favor the rehabilitation and upgrading of the
bottom outlet structure at Intumak so that it can play a multipurpose role. The GOK will hire an
independent expert to advise on the dam safety aspects of the project. Given the importance of reservoir
storage for the successful operation of the project the existing storage capacities will be carefully
checked. Ifnecessary field surveys will be carried out. The Intumak reservoir could act as a sink for
residual contaminants coming from the clean-up of upstream river stretch. To this effect, a sedimentation
management strategy will be developed for the Intumak reservoir.

International Waterways. The project triggers OP 7.50 since the Nura (a wholly national river) is
connected to the Ishim (which ends in Russia) by a canal near Astana. Per O.P. 7.50 and in consultation
with the Bank's legal department, the Government of Kazakhstan sent a letter to the Government of
Russia informing them of the project, its objectives, and its likely impacts, requesting any comments.
To-date, none have been received, and in the absence of comment or objection, the Government of
Kazakhstan intends to proceed with the project.

F. Sustainability and Risks

D. Sustainability:

Sustainability of the project outcomes will depend in part on the ability of the Basin Authority to control
risks associated with recontamination of river and/or new sources of pollution in the region, and to
effectively manage the water resource to ensure a reliable supply of potable water for the population in
the Nura Basin. For this reason, the project assigns a high priority to legal and institutional strengthening
ofwater resource monitoring and management capacity.

In addition, an ongoing program to encourage public participation in the project, and to educate them on
the effects of pollution and the benefits of remediation works should help to promote a heightened level
ofawareness and commitment to the preservation ofthe water resources. The participation ofexperts
from the Minamata Institute of Japan in the design and operation of the water quality monitoring program
should enhance public confidence in the reliability of published findings, and alleviate any residual
concems about the safety of the Nura River as a source of water for drinking, irrigation and fisheries.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):

                    RisOe          FRis       -r       Rating             -        l5itigationllfneisur9-:--
                                                                                      lR9s     M
From Outputs to Objective
Local and regional water authorities and              M           Strong support at all levels ofgovernment for
water users are unwilling to cooperate in                         integrated river basin management, as well as a
the operation of the river basin                                  good understanding within the coordinating
management system                                                 water management body..

Local industries are unwilling or                     M           Legal basis for enforcement ofcompliance
financially incapable of complying with
environmental standards                                           Government understanding of, and support for
                                                                  measures to ensure sustainable water supply

Lack of proper long-term operation and                M           Activities to ensure sustainability will be part



                                                     -24-

 monitoring of the landfill to avoid                                 of the operational contract
 leakage and quickly identify the need for
 remedial actions.


 Cooperation between the regional                       M            Institutional strengthening and provision of
 environmental and water management                                  management tools will assist the water
agencies is not forthcoming                                          management authority in carrying out its duties
                                                                     and mobilizing support.


Monitoring Unit not financed for                        M            Financing secured through trust funds for
long-term                                                            project life time


                                                                     Long-term monitoring plan to be developed,
                                                                     including sustainable financing plan


Mercury Disaster                                         S           Quick action required by project to secure plant
                                                                     buildings

From Components to Outputs
Timely availability of counterpart                      M            Financial conditions in loan agreement will
funding during project implementation.                               ensure availability of required resources from
                                                                     the central government budget on an annual
                                                                     basis
Government capacity and commitment to                    S           Financial conditions in loan agreement will
finance ongoing operating and                                        ensure availability of required resources from
maintenance costs of the Basin                                       the central government budget on an annual
Management System                                                    basis


                                                                     Grant financing is being sought to supplement
                                                                     financial resources of the Nura Basin Authority


Mercury clean-up operation proves to be                 M            Extensive advance preparation and analysis by
technically and/or financially infeasible                            reputable engineering consultants


                                                                     Relatively simple technology, intervention only
                                                                     in most critical instances
Lack of adequate implementation                         M             Project will provide funding for technical
capacity within the PMU results in poor                              support of PMU
project management and/or extensive
implementation delays

Overall Risk Rating                                     M

Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M(Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
M(Modest Risk)

3. Possible Controversial Aspects:

There are no controversial aspects anticipated. In its project timetable, the project has considered the
urgency ofthe need for careful destruction of the plant building sites. However, should the buildmgs
collapse in the meantime, some controversy could arise over the reasons for delays.




                                                      - 25 -

G. Main Loan Conditions

1. Effectiveness Condition

Apart from the issuance of a legal opinion, there are no conditions of loan effectiveness.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]

Disbursementcondition:
-        No disbursement with respect to civil works under Component 2 (rehabilitation ofthe Intumak
Dam and reservoir) until International Panel of Experts has approved proposed works program

AnnualReview
-        Satisfactory implementation of Environmental Management Plan in accordance with the program
defined during Negotiations

Financial
-        Borrower to make annual provision in the central government budget to finance local costs of the
project, as well as ongoing operating costs of River Basin Management Agencies.

-        The Government will submit a letter to the Bank indicating its intention to include co-financing
for the project in the draft Republican budget for 2004

-        A satisfactory assessment will be carried out for the dams at Samarkand and Sherubianur and the
report submitted to the Bank

-        Regional and/or local administrators will have reached agreement with parties holding vested
interests to develop the landfill at Opan, or at an alternative satisfactory landfill site.

H.   Readiness for Implementation

g 1.a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
        start of project implementation.
D 1.b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
      project implementation.
2 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
      quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



I. Compliance with IBank Po1lcies

1 1.This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
      with all other applicable Bank policies.




                                                     -26 -

1.Compliance with Bank Policies

Z 1.Thisproject complieswithall applicable Bank policies.
OI2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recomnmended for approval. The project complies
      with all other applicable Bank policies.




Piotr Krzyzanwski                      Laura Tuck                           Dennis de Tray
Team Leader                            Sector Director                      Country Dlrector




                                               -27 -


                                  Annex 1: Project Design Summary

                          KAZAKHSTAN: NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT

                                  Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
                      - :
 Hierarchy of Objectives.             Indicators                                            Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:            Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reverse environmental        Improved potential for        Economic data on              Expenditures on
degradation trends,          economic and social           employment, industrial        environmental protection
particularly those affecting development in areas          production, agriculture etc.  reduce risk of poverty by
public health, welfare, and  previously suffering from     in areas affected by project. increasing economic
economic productivity       -contamination                                               productivity and improving
                                                           Implementation Progress       health and quality of life
                                                           reports on NEAP
                             Increased access to clean     Poverty Assessment, Social CabinetlParliament takes
                             water supply                  Indicators                    environmental problems
                                                                                         and their impact on the
                                                                                         economy and population as
                                                                                         a priority issue for the
                                                                                         country
                             Reduced incidence of          Social Indicators             Availability of, and access
                             health problems related to                                  to an adequate health care
                             environmental pollution                                     system,




                                                     - 28 -


- I:L;-|*-*
    -=.i                         Key Performance_. ..     DataCollection Strategy-            :.
.-Hierarch_y_ oe     _              Indicators     . -Critical                      I           Assumptions-
Project Development         Outcome I Impact              Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
To improve the welfare of   Increased reliance on local   Reports of the Municipal  Continued strong political
the population in the Nura  water resources by the        Vodokanals in Karaganda,  interest and support for
River Basin by cleaning up users in the Nura basin        Temirtau, and downstream  policy and institutional
serious mercury pollution                                 communities               reform in the water sector
in and adjacent to the Nura
River, providing a safe,                                                            Effective ongoing water
secure and cost effective                                                           quality monitoring
alternative source of water                                                         program, together with the
supply to meet growing                                                              capacity to respond to any
needs of local water users,                                                         degradation in measured
and restoring flow control                                                           indicators
in the river for flood
management and ecological                                                           Willingness ofthe regional
purposes.                                                                           water and environmental
                                                                                     agencies to cooperate
                            Availability of additional    Zoning reports, land use
                            land areas for productive     reports, site specific
                            use                           reviews and monitoring
                            Increased summer time         Water balance reports from Willingness of local and
                            flows to the Kurgaldzhino     the River Basin            regional authorities and the
                            wetlands                      Department                 water users to cooperate
                                                                                     and operate the river basin
                                                                                     management system


                                                                                     Enhanced institutional
                                                                                     capacity for water resource
                                                                                     planning and management


                            Availability of Nura water    Water balance reports from As above
                            to meet the additional        the River Basin
                            demand for the city of        Department
                            Astana
                                                          Reports of the Astana
                                                          regional /municipal
                                                          Vodokanals




                                                     -29 -

   .    _   .-  ~
                       _        - _


Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Removal of critical risk   Mercury concentrations at   Annual monitoring report    Competent implementation
depositions of mercury in  AO Karbide site and         for the affected areas to   and supervision of clean-up
populated areas of         adjacent facilities are     gauge achievement of        program
Temirtau and in the Nura   reduced to at least ambient mercury reduction targets
Basin                      levels in the city                                      Timely implementation of
                                                       Ongoing water quality       cleanup at plant site
                           Year-round mercury          monitoring reports
                           concentrations in the water                             Proper long-term operation
                           from the Nura River are                                 and monitoring of the
                           maintained at levels that                               landfill to avoid and
                           meet standards for human                                leakage
                           consumption
Improved capacity for flow Flood and dry season flows Water balance reports from Adequate resolution of
management in the Nura     downstream of Intumak       the River Basin             concerns regarding the
Basin                      can be managed with a       Department                  impact of higher reservoir
                           view to optimizing benefits                             levels at Intumak on the
                           ofwater resource                                        risks associated with
                                                                                   mercury concentrations in
                                                                                   the water
Properly trained and       Seasonal flow               Water balance reports from Enforcement of
equipped Basin             management, as above        the River Basin             environmental regulations
Management Authority                                   Department                  to preserve water quality
                          Water quality is monitored
                           on an ongoing basis         Ongoing water quality       Adequate financing
                                                       monitoring reports          mechanisms for the
                           Prompt action is taken to                               ongoing operation of the
                          address any deterioration in Annual operating reports of monitoring unit
                          water quality measures       the River Basin Authority
                                                                                   Ongoing government
                                                                                   financing for water
                                                                                   management institutions




                                                   -30-

                          |    Key Performance          Data Collection Strategy-              .ng
 Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators                   .tcal                             As SPA          4

Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:                (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                                  Outputs)
Clean-up of high risk      $44.08 million              - Contract documents and        Technically feasible and
mercury accumulations at                               supervision reports for the     financially affordable
the Karbide plant site and                             mercury clean up program        solutions for mercury
in the Nura River Basin                                - Monthly reporting on          clean-up
                                                       implementation of the
                                                       environmental management Timely completion of
                                                       plan activities                 detailed engineering
                                                       - Annual reports on landfill
                                                       operation                       Timely counterpart funding
                                                       - Quarterly and annual          as budgeted
                                                       PMRs
                                                                                       Timely implementation of
                                                                                       procurement
Rehabilitation of Intumak  $19.13 million              - Contract documents and        Satisfactory resolution of
Dam and completion of                                  supervision reports             uncertainties regarding
spillway                                               - Report from International     long-term impacts of
                                                       Expert Panel                    increasing reservoir levels
                                                       - Final report containing data
                                                       on mercury fateanua
                                                                        in Intumak
                                                                                PM     Timely implementaiton of
                                                        -.,~rtri an
                                                       - Qcuarterly and annual PRilseniergad
                                                                                       engmneening and
                                                                                       construction works
Strengthening the water    $1.68 million               - annual supervision reports    Recurring cost financing of
resources management and                               from international engineering O&M costs ofthe Basin
monitoring capacity of                                 consulting firm                 Management System
institutions within the                                - Annual report on Basin
Basin Authority                                        Authority's activities including
                                                       tariffs, permits granted, costs
                                                       of water supply from various
                                                       sources, etc.

Project Management and     $2.53 million               - annual supervision reports
Impact Monitoring                                      from international engineering
                                                       consulting firm
                                                       - periodic reports from the
                                                       Public Consultative Group
                                                       - quarterly reports on
                                                       implementation progress
                                                       (PMU to CWR) which would
                                                       also be sent to public
                                                       constulative body




                                                   -31 -

- 32 -

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                          KAZAKHSTAN: NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT

By Component:

Project Component 1 - US$44.08 million
Nura Basin Mercury Clean-Up
This component ofthe project would include financing for excavation of contaminated hotspots,
including the AO Karbide plant site at Temirtau (factory building, main drain, and adjacent waste
disposal sites), the Zhaur Swamp, and critical areas ofmercury accumulation along the banks and
floodplains of the Nura River. Materials removed from the plant site and river-banks would be
transported to a secure landfill for proper containment ofthe contaminated soil. The landfill would be
constructed at a tentatively-identified site at Opan, adjacent to an existing landfill associated with the
Ispatkarmet Metallurgical Plant. The project would also finance the initial operation and monitoring of
the landfill. As part of this component, financing would be provided for inspection and monitoring ofthe
landfill construction and soil-excavation process by independent experts to ensure that the selected
contractors meet all technical standards and safeguards.

The intervention standards and quantities of material to be removed from each site were developed
through a combination of integrated risk assessment followed by a technical and economic assessment of
the least-cost form of intervention. The key findings of the risk assessment were as follows:

-        At mean concentrations, the mercury levels pose acceptable levels of risk to the population that
lives in the vicinity of the Nura. This is for all three ofthe vectors: direct contact with the soil, crop
uptake and drinking the local waters. With regard to an appropriate risk management strategy, such a
level of risk leads to a land-use zoning strategy rather than wholesale remediation, in the fllodplain. This
is because the majority of the land poses acceptable risk levels, and given the area under consideration,
areas of potential risk can be avoided or the land put to another less sensitive land-use (e.g. industrial
development).

-        Three points were considered of special significance:

    *    The Zhaur swamp is currently a risk to human health;
    *    The Main Drain sediments and waters exceed most screening values, and thus degrade the River
         Nura;
    *    From comparison of the criteria with the concentrations found in the sediment from the oxbow
         lakes and backwaters and the calculated porewater concentrations, it is clear that there is a
         significant mercury inventory that can act as a slow but continuous source to wells and the river.


       The general conclusions from the data analysis and risk analysis are summarised below:

    *    The measured water quality in the Nura River is uncertain. The various data sets give very
         different results and lead to very different conclusions. On the one hand the water quality leaving
         the Intumak reservoir is at best marginal, whilst other data (including the most recent sampling
         and analysis effort undertaken by the Consultant during the flood season in March and April
         2002) indicates that it is quite safe. This can only be resolved through additional (long-term)
         measurement (to be carried out by other parties).
   *     Some areas on the flood plain are to be considered hazardous and need addressing in some way.



                                                      - 33 -

         Other areas are ofacceptable risk for normal human activities and can be left alone.
    o    The Zhaur Swamp must be considered hazardous and remedial action is required there.
   O     The Main Drain could constitute a hazard and needs to be addressed in detail.
   O     AO Karbide Site, the associated waste water treatment plant and ash lagoons (previously used by
         the KarGress power plant, but more recently used as a deposit for mercury-containing waste by
         AO Karbide) are hazardous and require remedial actions. Data indicates that there has been an
         accumulation ofmercury in the strata under AO Karbide during the whole period of industrial
         activity.




Based on these analyses, the following program of activities was proposed:

Sub-Component           Action                                                         Quantities
Landfill                 El Construct a secure, modular landfill with a capacity of at 50 ha
                            least 3million cubic meters at a site to be agreed based on
                             geological, financial, and environmental criteria.
A/O Karbide Plant        I23 buildings of former acetaldehyde production must be       2,135,000 cubic
site, including main         demolished;                                               meters
drain, sludge lagoon,    E2l contaminated ground and debris must be excavated;
and wastewater           !x3 the ground and debris must be disposed of in
treatment plant              specially-designed landfills;
                             the most highly polluted soil and construction debris,
                            which have mercury concentrations higher than 1500
                             mg/kg, must be treated prior to disposal.
Zhaur Swamp              (23 Temporarily drain the Swamp and strip the surface soils   474,000 cubic
                             and vegetation                                            meters
                         12 Remove the contanminated material to a safe modular
                             designed storage facility; do not treat to remove the
                             contamination.
Nura River Banks and     E8l Zone the flood plain into use zones and enforce them      728,000 cubic
Floodplains              1I Excavate the contaminated soils where that is shown to be meters
                            justifiable by economic or fitness for purpose criteria
                            (Excavation of contaminated soils must follow additional
                             sampling and analysis at specific sites where alternative
                             land uses are under consideration, for example, for
                             extending agriculture activities.);
                         I12Remove the excavated material to a safe modular
                            designed storage facility - do not treat to remove the
                            contamination.
KarGress Lagoon          I0 Consider possible use of Lagoon as a candidate for
                            landfill site, even though it does not conform to local
                            standards for distances between landfill and key           Minimum
                            infrastructure                                             1,000,000 cubic
                            In the event that the Lagoon cannot be used for landfill,  meters
                            remove the contaminated material to a safe modular
                            designed storage facility; do not treat to remove the
                            contamination.




                                                    - 34 -

Project Component 2 - US$19.13 million
Intumak Reservoir Rehabilitation. This component of the project would finance equipment and civil
works to rehabilitate the dam at the Intumak Reservoir, which is located approximately 80 km
downstream from Temirtau. The Intumak dam was built between 1982 and 1984 as part of a proposed
irrigation scheme. However, the irrigation project was abandoned before the civil works for the dam had
been completed. In particular, the regulating gates and the spillway were not completed in conformity
with the design, and the reservoir was filled to less than three-fourths of its design capacity (180 million
m3 out of a capacity of 250 million m3). Recent engineering studies indicate that there has been some
water penetration of the dam, and that works should be carried out to reinforce the main structure, in
order to prevent a possible breach and release of floodwaters and contamninants downstream. At the same
time, it has been proposed that the spillway and gates be completed so that the reservoir can be operated
at design capacity, even though the irrigation need did not materialize. Given that approximately 80
percent of the annual flow in the river occurs over a two month period in the Spring, this would offer
significant benefits in terms of downstream flood control, and seasonal water storage. It would also
ensure an adequate dry-season supply of water to the Korgalgzhin Wetlands - an ecological area which is
included under the Ramsar Convention in the list of sites with global significance.

The component would finance rehabilitation of the Intumak Reservoir, including reinforcement of the
dam and completion of the spillway and gates to allow the dam to operate as a mechanism for flow
control at its original design reservoir level. However, owing to uncertainty about the possible impact of
increased reservoir volumes on mercury methylation, the dam operational manual and an integrated water
resources management plan for the Samarkand and Sherubianur reservoirs will be developed based on
the findings and recommendations of an expert assessment. This assessment would be based on the
results of a one-year monitoring program, including mathematical modeling, as well as consensus on the
part of an International Expert Advisory Group. Grant financing has been sought for the design and
implementation ofthe reservoir monitoring program, the analysis ofresults, and the expert assessment of
the risks inherent in raising the operating level of the reservoir. In the event that the results ofthe
monitoring and assessment indicate a risk of unacceptable levels ofmercury methylation associated with
increased operating levels, completion of the spillway and gates would be postponed until mercury
deposits in the bottom of the reservoir could be removed and transferred to the landfill. Provision has
been mnade in the cost estimate for this component to cover the cost of any additional dredging works
required. While the amount of dredging required will be established based on the further monitoring and
analysis, it is expected that the cost would be minor.

Project Component 3 - US$ 1.68 million
Nura-Sarysu River Basin Authority Strengthening. This component would finance technical
assistance, training and equipment necessary to increase the institutionral capacity of the Nura-Sarysu
River Basin Authority, in order to strengthen its monitoring network, water pollution control system, and
the regulatory framework within which it operates.

Project Component 4 - US$2.53 million
Project Managem'ent and Monitoring. This component would cover a number ofactivities related to
project management and monitoring. One part of the component would finance the incremental
operating costs of the Project Management Unit (PMU) which would be established to oversee and
coordinate project implementation. A second part would finance technical assistance to the PMU,
providing (i) training in areas such as procurement, disbursement, and project accounting, (ii) auditing of
project accounts, (iii) assistance in the supervision of construction, monitoring and evaluation activities,
and (iv) supervision of the implementation of the environmental management plan.




                                                     - 35 -

         (J~~~~~~~~~,(




           r~~~~~~coigei ° , ___

                                                        \.adrTen


C,~~~C




               -      anDII1;           t  -    ;  04r



                                    \ p          >,     oAbeia ~  ri~

                                              Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                            KAZAKHSTAN: NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT

                                           Cost by Comnponent Net of Contingencies
                                                                     -                           ___________

                                                                                                   Foreign (USS         -

Pvioect Cast by Component                                                      Local (USS 000)         000)        'Totail US000).
  1.Mercury Cleanup         -35,209.                                                                   1,898              37,106
 16. Preparation of OPAN Disposal Site                                                    8.694               460!             ,.9.155
 lb. Remediafion Of AO Karbide She                                                       17500              1.437                 8937
 i6 Remedialionofiriver becesediments- river bankash, floodplainsoils, Zhaur           .9,0115                 '             ,9.015

2. ReihabilitatIon of Intumak Reservoir           .                                      15,702              .400             £16,102

3l,nstitutlonal Strngthening aWd Technical Monit'o'nng                                    1146
                                                                                          l.                  268                 1,414
 4.Pro'ect Maniagement and Project Impact Monitoring                                        337               792         ,        ,2


Total Baseline Costs                                                                     53.394             3.357              56,751

                              - -..  Physical Contingencies       -5.065                                 ,.  318                5.384'
                                          Price Contingencies,*-                         4.973               313.               5.285,
                           ~~~~FrontEnd
             -~~~   -        .      .                     Fea                                              -44                     404

    TtlFina-ncing Required      -______




                                         Cost by Component       -   Including Contin~geniencies

Project Cost by Component                                                      Loal(USS 000)         Foeg (U500             Ttal (us 000):
1. Mercury Cleanup                  -             ..                                 41 828                 224        -         44,0824

Id. Preparation of OPAN Disposal Site'                                                      0329                      54               10.876
lb: Ren,ediationofAO Karbide Site                  -20                                        789             r.1,707                  -22497

lc. Remediatlon Of rive bed sedimrents--ver bank ash. flood pliWn s6ils Zhiaur         &10.709
                                                                                          -                     I,      ..             1i0 710
     2.Rhbilitation of ninumak Reservoir                                                                   ~
                                                                                       ';  165                    -475      .      -   19,130
3. linstitutional Stren                                  -rin g.                            1,362                 **31                    ,8
                      ngthening and Technical Monitorn                                                               .BO

4.Project Management and Project Impact Monitoring                                          1 88-.                    94                   ,528

tota Bas'eline Costs   '.                                                                  53,432              *39867,420


                              -.
                              '      Physical Contingencies     .

                                        ~Pnce
                      - -.   -                 Contingencies                                         --                      -
                                              ~~~~Front
                        * --                        Enid Fee                                    .4044

Total Financing Required                                                        ~-
                                                    ..                                                           -.-




Project Cost by Category              .'.Local                                        (S00)Foreign-(US$ 000)              ''Totl(S 0)


Civil Workcs                                                                               55540                            ~
                                                                                                                                    -59

Goods                                                                                                                 794                  794
   Cisutant Serie                                                                            2780                   5.940               :'8720
Ine'rementaL Operat-ing Costs                   -.                                             2559                            ,,       .334

OhiFieXcu,rreni           -                                                                  1,587
     Toaostsl,                                                                             60,197                   72267-.420
                                              ~~~~~~~~~Froni
             * -                                    End Fee                                                        -10

Tota Financing Required                              .60,197762




                                                                   37-

                            Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
                        KAZAKHSTAN:             IURA RIVER CLEANUIP PROJECT



                                Aet                 -    X-of 's
                                                             !oz                . I-.


 Project Costs                                 43.6                      52.2                 8.5
 $ million@ 10% discount



 Ifthe difference between the present value offinancial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation ofthe difference is warranted, e.g. "The difference between financial and
economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."

Summary of benefits and costs:
Cost Effectiveness AnaRlysis

The proposed project represents a cost-effective solution to two issues: (i) the need to remove hazardous
mercury deposits from the AO Karbide plant site and from the flood plains ofthe Nura River, and (ii)
the need to provide a secure and safe drinking water supply to residents ofAstana as well as communities
adjacent to the river.

Mercury Clean-upProgram: With respect to the first issue, detailed studies were carried out during
project preparation to (i) define an appropriate level of intervention based on an assessment ofthe costs
ofadopting alternative standards with respect to cleanup versus the risks that untreated sites would lead
to unacceptable dissemination ofpollutants; and (ii) identify an optimum site for the landfill based on
tradeoffs between the cost of development and maintenance versus the cost oftransporting contaminated
materials to the site. Briefly, the process involved a three tier assessment:

o   Tier 1        Comparison ofmeasured environmental media concentrations (soil, groundwater, etc.)
    with appropriate generic (non-site specific) guideline concentrations (such as WHO drinking water
    standards, etc). This screens out sites that can be regarded as not posing an unacceptable risk.
o   Tier 2        Site-specific risk assessment used to generate site specific clean-up targets. This uses
    site-specific data, although literature values and conservative assumptions can be used to fill any
    gaps where site specific data is not available.
o   Tier 3        A refinement of the Tier 2 risk assessment which incorporates additional site data and
    more sophisticated fate and transport modelling techniques to further reduce conservatism in the
    assessment.

In the context of this study several receptors were identified as set out below:

        drinking water supply ofKaraganda;
        drinking water supply of Temirtau;
        (future contribution to the) drinking water supply of Astana;
        other points along the river; and,
        groundwater near or directly under the Zhaur Swamp




                                                        -38-

Based on the assessment of site concentrations, the fate and transport analyses, and the tolerance
standards ofvarious receptors,
a program of required interventions was defined in terms of the extent of the clean-up activities that were
required. Within this program, a further analysis of the cost of alternative measures was carried out to
establish the least-cost way of achieving the required reduction in pollution levels at the various sites.

WaterSupply: With respect to the second issue, removing mercury pollution from the Nura River,
together with implementation of a proper water management regime in the Basin, represents the most
cost-effective means of providing:

o   a second source of water for Astana City, from the Nura River, that is less expensive than the current
    arrangement, based on the Ishim River and the Irtish-Karaganda Canal.
o   a less expensive source of water for the cities of Temirtau and Karaganda, that currently rely on
    water from a combination of the Irtish Karaganda Canal, groundwater sources and the Nura River.
o   an improvement in the regularity of supply from the cities of Temirtau and Karaganda and the
    welfare gains related to that

For Astana, the current water source, the Ishim River, does not provide adequate flow to meet the needs
of projected population levels. While the first mechanism of intervention would be to reduce the water
losses in the existing system, which are currently estimated at approximately 50 percent, uncertainties
related to hydrology as well as to demand growth suggest that there may be periods when additional
supply is required. Ifthe Nura River is judged unacceptable owing to mercury contamination, it would
be necessary to pump additional water from the Irtysh-Karaganda canal in order to ensure water supply.
The ongoing cost of pumping incremental water from the Irtysh River (over an elevation change of450
meters) to the Viacheslav Reservoir is estimated at approximately US$ 0.17 per cubic meter, while the
cost of transporting incremental water from the Reservoir to the city is estimated at $0.11 per cubic
meter. By contrast, the Nura could provide up to 90 million cubic meters per year of additional water
(equivalent to approximately 90 percent of projected demands) to Astana at a cost of approximately US$
0.07 per cubic meter. Similar cost savings would accrue to the residents of Temirtau and Karaganda, at
least for that portion of their water supply that is currently drawn from the Canal. In addition, the Nura
would provide Astana with a water source that is independent of the existing reservoir and pipeline - a
measure of protection against a catastrophic failure in the current system.

Economic Benefits:

While the focus ofthe analysis has been the selection ofleast-cost measures to address key issues, there
are also a number of positive benefits associated with the project. Quantification of these benefits is
subject to considerable uncertainty with respect both to unit value and the extent to which they will be
realized. The following paragraphs briefly outline the approach taken to valuing these benefits, and the
findings of the analysis.




                                                     - 39 -

Benefits from the Provision of Water to Astana City: Current water consumption in Astana is about 65
million cubic meters a year (water leaving the treatment facility). The future demand depends on: (a) the
rate at which population increases; (b) changes in end use demand, which will probably increase as the
population becomes richer and acquires a more water intensive lifestyle; and (c) savings in water
resulting from better metering, higher tariffs and investment in reducing losses. Based on these factors,
overall demand (measured at the exit from the treatment facility) is expected to increase over the next 15
years to 92 million cubic meters, but the demand measured at the point that it leaves the Viacheslav
Reservoir will fall, from 192 million cubic meters currently to 102 million in 2017. This is because
losses in the delivery system to the treatment facility are very large but are expected to be reduced as a
result of upgrading ofthe pipes.

At present the natural flow of the Ishim River is generally enough to meet the demand of 192 million
cubic meters during normal periods. In periods ofwater shortage, however, when the spring floods are
less abundant, it is necessary to increase the level of the reservoir by pumping water from the
Irtish-Karaganda Canal, through an extension to the canal, a distance of some 21 kilometers. The canal
was only completed last year and the frequency with which it will be used has not been established, but
some simulations based on the observed frequency of low and high flow periods in the river suggest that,
at most, it will be needed 2-3 times in every 15 years (given the demand as presented in Table Al). Each
time it is used, however, the cost is significant. To pump one cubic meter to be delivered to the
Viacheslav Reservoir costs about USO 16 and hence to deliver 60 million cubic meters, which is the
present capacity ofthe canal costs $9.6 million. In addition, the cost ofdelivering water from the
reservoir to the city is also high. Present estimates put it at around 17 tenge, or USO 11/kWh This cost
will decline as losses are reduced. Such declines are taken into account in the savings reported below.
All cost data for both the Nura and Ishim water supplies are taken from the DFID, 2000 study on the
Nura and Ishizn Rivers as sources of water for Astana.

Ifthe same water could be delivered from the Nura River, there would be a substantial saving in cost.
For the pumped water, it is necessarily a stochastic calculation, as the frequency with which the
additional water will be needed is not known. The present level of the Vyacheslav Reservoir is about
300 million cubic meters, which is at about the level at which some intake will be required unless the
natural flow is substantial in the following year. Based on a number ofsimulations the expected cost of
water from the canal is estimated at an average of around $2.2 million a year over the next 15 years.

The Nura River could supply up to a total of about 90 million cubic meters ofwater to the city at a cost
of 10 tenge, or US¢7.0 per cubic meter. This flow could only be guaranteed, however, ifthe Intumak
Reservoir was operational to regulate the flow of water. The annual benefits from both sources are
shown in Table 1,with the canal costs set each year at the average, or expected value over 15 years. The
average annual benefit is around $5.1 million.




                                                     -40  -

             Table 1: Benefits in Astana: Partially Replacing Ishim by Nura River Water

                                         l   m             Cost of Present Source           Net
                    Year            Nura Water            Canal Cost I Delivery Cost       Savmg

                 7____         Mn. M3         $MN.                  $MN.                   $Mn.
                    2004         0.00            0            218           0.00            0.00
                    2005         0 00            0            2.18          0.00            0.00
                    2006         0.00            0            2.18          0.00            0.00
                    2007         0.00            0            2.18          0.00            0.00
                    2008        90 00          6.00           2.18          9.50            5.67
                    2009        90.00          5.85           2 18          9.28            5.60
                    2010        90 00          5.71           2.18          9.04            5.51
                    2011        90.00          5.56           2.18          8.80            5.42
                    2012        90.00          5.41           2.18          8.54            5.30
                    2013        90.00          5.26           2.18          8.26            5.18
                    2014        90.00          5.11           2.18          7 98            5.04
                    2015        90.00          4.96           2.18          7.68            4.90
                    2016        90.00          4.82           2.18          7.37            4.73
                    2017        90.00          4.67           2.18          7.05            4.56
                    2018        90.00          4 52           2.18           6.71           4.37

                            _  Average                        2.18                          S 12
                 Notes      I                                   .
                 1. Nura water costs US7 cents per cubic meter in 2004, but costs will fall
                   sgt!y as distnbution losses are redcued.           l                 _
                 2. Ishimnwatercosts start at 11 US cents per cubic meterbut fall mrore
                    _ pidlaboth distnbution losses and delivery losses are reduced.


The forecast demand for potable water for Temirtau taken at the treatment plant falls from 29.5 million
cubic meters in 2002 to 22.3 million in 2017. The population is assumed to remain constant at 170,000
and losses in the distribution system fall from the current level of 50 percent to 20 percent by the end of
the period. In addition there is a demand for technical water that amounts to 61 million cubic meters.
Currently Temirtau takes its water from the following sources: 51 percent from the Irtish Karaganda
Canal, 20 percent from underground sources, and 29 percent from the Nura River. (Water Resources
Committee Data). The water from the Nura River is only for technical purposes and not for drinking.
The water from the Irtish Karaganda Canal includes about 10 million cubic meters for drinking purposes
and 36 million for technical use, including 6 million that goes into the Nura River, to raise the level of
the Samarkand Reservoir. The reason for adding this water to the reservoir is that the latter provides a
major source of technical water for a metallurgical plant, and in summer the level falls too low for the
reservoir to be able to serve the plant without additional water. An alternative solution would be to
invest in a new technology for the plant that would treat and recycle water and reduce present demand for
abstraction, as well as lowering the high pollution loadings for which the plant is responsible. With
these changes in water management, and the mercury clean up program, it should be possible to use the
Samarkand Reservoir to provide some potable water for the city. It is expected that this technical
restructuring of will take place under the institutional strengthening component of the project.

As in the case of Astana, the water from the Irtish-Karaganda Canal is expensive. If some of the
remaining water from this source could also be replaced, even partly, by water from the Nura River, there
would be a substantial saving. With the change in the technology used by the metallurgical plant, the
capacity of the Samarkand Reservoir will increase from the present 90 million cubic meters to 200 cubic
million meters. This would allow the maximum sustainable rate of abstraction to go up from 50 million
to 90 cubic meters. As noted earlier, the estimated additional cost of canal water is around US0 16/m3.



                                                      -41 -

The savings from reductions in its use, and replacement by alternative sources are given in Table 2, and
amount to about $7.5 million in the first year (taken as 2007), falling to $6.1 million in 2017. The
benefits decline as demand for potable water is assumed to fall.


It should be noted that in so far as the water being replaced is not potable water but technical water, this
can be done without the quality improvements being realized. When potable water is being replaced,
however, it will require that both mercury and non-mercury pollution loadings in the Samarkand
Reservoir are reduced to acceptable levels. This requires the pollution management and institutional
strengthening components ofthe project to be implemented and to deliver concrete results, particularly in
the operations of the metallurgical plant.



                     Table 2: Savings in Costs in Tenmirtau as a Result of Nura River

              Amount         Altemative   Unit Cost    Unit Cost  Total Cost Total Cost Net Savmg
              from IK           Source     USO/M3         of         of IK       ofAlt.
              Canal                                   Alternative   Water        Water
                                                        USO/M3     Replaced
                Mn. M3                                                       $ Milhon/ Year
                           Metallurgical
                         6 Plant                0.16             0       0.96             0      0.96
                           Samarskandski
                           Reservior:
                           Technical
                      23.8 Water                0.17          0.01       4.08          0.27      3.81
                           Samarskandski
                           Reservior:
                           Potable Water
                    16.92 (Manimum)             0.20          0.04       3.38         0.68       2.71
                           Samarskandski
                           Reservior:
                           Potable Water
                     8.34 (Mmimum)              0.20          0.04        1.67        0.33       1.33
             TOTAL            _____                                                        ___
                           _ Maximum            2007          .          .               _      7.4S

                          _Minimum              2018                                 _          6.10
                Notes:

             1.Costs ofwater delivered to the user are taken as USO 4.0 per cubic meter without the pumnping costs
            for the Irtish-Karaganda Canal, which are taken as US016 per cubic meter.
            2. The amount of technical water from the reservoir is equal to the total annual demand, less 6 million
            M3, which is the reduction from the changes in the metallurgical plant.
            3. The amount of potable water equals total demand less what is supplied from underground sources.




                                                      -42 -

Benefits ofNura as an alternative source for Karaganda: With the population forecast to fall from
430,000 to 350,000 by 2018, water demand at the treatment plant in Karaganda is expected to fall from
75 million cubic meters this year to 46 million cubic meters by 2018. Most of the city's water (97
percent) comes from the Irtish-Karaganda Canal. If the Nura River were to be suitable as a source of
potable water, considerable savings would be made. Indeed, up until the Second World War the city
obtained its water from the Samarkand Reservoir. This would involve pumping the water up an elevation
of 50 meters. The cost per cubic meter of water raised one meter is estimated at US00.035/kWh. Hence
the cost of raising it 50 meters is US 1.75, which compares favorably with the cost of US¢ 16/m3 for
pumping from the Irtish-Karaganda Canal.


Assuming, for the reasons given above, that the amount of water from the reservoir is limited to 90
million cubic meters and, furthermore, that the first use of it is for Temirtau, the amount then available
for Karaganda is 43.3 million m3. These figures, and the demand from Karaganda for potable water, are
given in Table 3, along with the savings from switching from the Irtysh-Karaganda Canal to the
Samarkand Reservoir. They increase from $6.2 million in 2007 to $7.4 million in 2018.

       Table 3: Use of Samarkand Reservoir for Water Supply of Karaganda City to Replace
                                         Irtish-Karaganda Canal

Year                  Demand for Water   Supply from           Cost Saving         Total Saving
                      (MN M3)            Reservoir             USO/M3              $ MN.
                                         (MN M3)
2007                  118.76             43.3                  14.25               6.17
2018                  66.65              51.8                  14.25               7.39
         Note: The supply from the reservoir is set at 90 million cubic meters, less the amount that is
supplied to Temirtau

Other Benefits:

Welfare gainsfrom an improvement in the regularityofsupply to the cities of TemirtauandKaraganda


The clean-up of the Nura River will increase the amount of drinking water available to the cities of
Temirtau and Karaganda. Social assessment studies (2002) carried out in these cities found that 74% and
73% of their populations, respectively, complain about water shortages. The availability of additional
water sources will improve the regularity of water supply to households. The welfare gains associated
with improved regularity are estimated from the WTP an amount additional to the monthly water bill for
guaranteed regular water supply from the central water supply system. The social assessment study
found that 26% of a random sample of urban households connected to the central systems in the cities of
Astana, Temirtau and Karaganda had a positive WTP. Using a referendum elicitation method, the survey
found the average sample (marginal) WTP to be US$ 0.75 per person per month, with a confidence
interval of US$ 0.25 - US$ 2.67. Taking the lower bound as a conservative estimate ofthe marginal
WTP and aggregating it to the populations of Temirtau and Karaganda city that are connected to the
central water supply (70%), we found the annual total incremental welfare gain from regular water
supply to be US$322 thousand in 2002. For the forecasts, account has to be taken of the changes in
population (which is declining) and changes in real incomes (which are expected to increase in parallel
with percapita GNP growth, conservatively estimated at 4% per annum over the next 15 years). We
assumed that the regularity of water supply would start in 2007. Evidence from several studies suggests
that the 'income elasticity' of demand for services such as regular water supply is at least one. Hence
taking an elasticity ofone would result in a conservative estimate of the future willingness to pay. By
this method, the welfare gain reaches nearly US $489 thousand by the year 2018. Details are given in



                                                   -43 -

Table 4.
     Table 4: Benefits from Increased Regularity of Water SuppDy to -araganda and Temirtau

                                                 W'TP                    WTP
                                   Population  Karaganda   Population  Ten*rtau      Total WTP
                         Year     Karaganda   (USS mijlbn) TemTrtau   (USS rrllion) (USS mlion)
                             2007    413,840     250,170     i70,000     12,767       352,937
                             2008    408,520     256,832     170,000     106,877_ 363,709
                             2009    403,200     263,627     170,000     111,152      374,779
                             2010     397,880    270,555     170,000     115,598      386,153

                             2011     392,560    277,615     170,000     120,222      397,837
                             2012
                             _        387,240    284,806     1i70,000    1-25,031     409,838
                             2013     381,920    292,129     170,000     130,032      422,162
                             2014    376,600     299,583     170,000     135,234      434,816
                             2015     371,280    307,165     170,000     140,643 =47,08
                             2016    365,960     314,874     170,000     146,269      461,143
                            20i7     360,640     322,708     170 000    152i20        474 828
                             2018    355,320     330,666     170,000    158,204       488,870

Increasedenvironmentalbenefits in theforrnofsaferandgreateruse ofthe Nura Riverandfrom theprovisionof
more andcleanerwater to the KuragaldzhinoWetlandsforrecreationalpurposes.


At present the Nura River and the support zone of the Kurgaldzhino Wetlands Protected Area are used
for hunting, fishing and tourism. Estimates reported in van Buekring and Hirsch for these activities are
as follows. Licenses to the value of US $180,000 were issued in 2000, mainly for duck hunting, but also
for goose, marmot, fox, roe deer, hare and elk. The Department of Fauna and Fishing (DFF) estimates
the value of the non-commercial catch at US $10,000 for the same year. For tourism, the estimated
number of persons making day trips was about 5 percent of the population, and the expenditure per
person per day was about US $3

The estimates ofhunting benefits are based on the value ofthe licenses plus the value of the meat. These
represent the minimum willingness to pay for the activity (actual WTP will be higher but in the absence
ofany data it is not possible to estimate the full values). In the future the number oflicenses issued will
increase, as the demand for recreation increases, at the rate of 1percent per annum. If the river and the
wetlands are cleaned up as a result ofthe project, the growth in demand for licenses will be 2 percent per
annum. These estimates are from the van Buekering and Hirsch study, based on expert assessments.
Benefits from hunting are given in Table 6. They start out at around US $4,000 in 2007 and build up to
around US $33,000 by 2018.

For fishing it is not possible, given the limited data to make an assessment of the recreational benefits.
When the study commissioned specifically for this appraisal is available, some estimates for the fisheries
benefits may be possible.

For tourism the data provide a 'point' estimate of the demand for recreation - so many visit days, with
each visit entailing an expenditure of US $3. The following further assumptions have been made (Table
5). Based on these, the welfare benefits in the form of consumer surplus have been estimated and are
reported in Table 6.




                                                       -44 -

                      Table 5: Assumptions for Calculation of Recreational Benefits

Assumption                                            Value      Justification
Number of days per visitor per year on Nura           10         Based on discussions with local experts.
River and Kurgaldzhino Wetlands
Price elasticity of demand for visits                 -l         Recreational demand studies suggest these
                                                                 are not unreasonable
Income elasticity of demand for visits                1.25
Demand function for recreation                        Linear     Comrnon default assumption
Increase in number ofday visitors if quality         15 *        Van Buekring and Hirsch based on local
improves %perannum                                     .         expert estimates.
                           (*) Builds up to this slowly over time, starting at 2% and reaching 15% by 2012


The benefits from tourism are more substantial than for hunting. They start out at US $25,000 in 2007
and build up to around US $840,000 by 2018, an increase of about 50 percent over the 'no project' case.
The number of visitor days increases by 20 percent over the same period.


Biodiversity benefitsfrom improvements in the Kurgaldzhino Wetlands

The Nura River discharges into the Kurgaldzhino Wetlands which is a protected area that was declared a
Ramsar site in 1976 for its internationally significant biodiversity value. This site is also the only one in
the region in which biodiversity is of major importance. However, high pollution levels in the Nura
River have a negative effect on the flora and fauna species protected in these wetlands. The clean-up of
the Nura River would avert future damage inflicted by mercury contamination. On the other hand, the
wetlands are also threatened by hunting and fishing activities in the area, as well as by water extraction
from the Nura for municipal and agricultural uses, all of which will likely intensify as a result of the
project. In the DFF expert opinion reported by van Beukering et al. (2001), the project's overall impact
on the wetlands' biodiversity will be to decrease the rate of degradation. The Nura clean-up would allow
biodiversity levels to be higher than baseline levels by about 12%. This improvement would be reached
gradually over 10 years following clean-up interventions as the impact of increased water quality on
biodiversity is realized with a time lag.


To estimate the monetary value of improved biodiversity protection in the Kurgaldzhino Wetlands, a
contingent valuation study was carried out in 2000 among the population ofAstana (van Beukering et al.,
2001). The study found that on average Astana residents are willing to pay US $ 1.17 per person per year
to maintain the Kurgaldzhino Wetlands in an ecologically healthy state. This WTP is an expression of
value that individual residents would derive ifthe Kurgaldzhino biodiversity was protected effectively. It
is expected that this value would increase at the same rate as income. In this analysis, it is assumred that
Temirtau and Karaganda residents would derive the same per person value from improved biodiversity
protection. However, the value would be realized only partially since improvements in biodiversity
protection will not achieve the full recovery of the wetlands. To reflect this, it is assumed that in 2007
the residents of Astana, Karaganda and Temirtau would enjoy 3 percent of their WTP or US¢ 3.5 per
person per year. The value would reach 12 percent or US¢ 14 in 2018 (reflecting the quantified
improvements in biodiversity that the project is expected to achieve). Aggregating this value for the
populations of the three cities yields benefits of US $42 thousand in 2007 and US $304 thousand in 2018


Main Assumptions:



Cost-effectiveness indicators:



                                                        -45 -

It is expected that the proposed project will deliver water to residents ofAstana at a cost of
approximately US$ 0.07 per cubic meter. This compares with an estimated US$ 0.27 per cubic meter for
water pumped through the Irtys-Karaganda canal.


2These  indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g. unit project costs of alternative project
designs or international standards.




                                                        -46 -

                                                   Annex 5: Financial Summary

                                    KAZAKHSTAN: NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT




TPl  Fnand    g Required


                         IBROIDA
                            .          -               39983     .     7.025        11.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-226     25.40       2693              32
7BAroject C'Iosts       e                       -     .13742          i4.32    '-   11.920      - 5. 760         I*.0        5683           9b83



    up F'flm4
            Froni-                      P                40*                                      .404-




Tot FnanockFng     dg      -.-                  L     6 87.24         12.2'i8       19266          5 7830        I81         95.it33      * 9497




 6BRi~eulDAI sn
         wd              . -           71    141  8828e1.20      3.87Z 4324         1192             7.                     5   35-


             DeolSuirlice           -'454~~~~~72.212927e     43    .0            7 5    553    5.51  '519'   447      44    34574           34.4
                                                                                                                                             410




                  c8w4~~d1T0lfliTauOS1731   3103  3.29~~78 241    49      3149                . ..                                            4971.




 bwesuner'lCosts          r            W  -. 4      2    -35L
                                                           1.25   .

 Debt S.o,v,c                                 2      3                            5             .     `   49   97  -5 476    A54     . A       4




ToWC M Fnlo.e                        743258 1093
                                            t     729.08   29081 3.4.79  38.348' 04410 2827 42   d    _6494   5.216 S  01211 48077    40.19     0
 of AIRdchTtalmTa11IM                         0  39          -     49     .1039 409  -43       03     43      (        09   43        09    43

(5 yeanu           ei   rD,r11                                                       L.C.1                                          r-

Closmmm'eulFee025                      82     Si - .8       *.      14  .-

IlReuf5%  CM7                            -7011             .53   19         77 11      155    11       Il     99-      77  -  0         0     10.
 omD8bISa'r                         .5'      72  129    -15       .89     82      5    55      31      519   44       75    j         32    44




                     TcdafCcjlq;~ ~
                          ~       ~            ~    ~~~-7

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements

                       KAZAKHSTAN: RIURA RIVER CLEAI\UP PROJECT

Procurement

The procurement of civil works and goods of the Bank-financed component as well as all consulting
services regardless of financing source, would be carried out in accordance with World Bank's
Guidelines. Works and Goods would be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines:
Procurementunder the IBRDLoans andIDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services would be procured in accordance
with Guidelines:SelectionandEmployment of Consultantsby WorldBank Borrowers(issued in January
1997, revised September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002).

The Committee for Water Resources (CWR) has established a Project Management Unit (PMU) and
appointed a Project Coordinator, Procurement Specialist and Financial Management Specialist. The
PMU will have its main offices in Astana. However, a branch office will be located in Karaganda in
order to ensure close day-to-day supervision of the project, and coordination with local stakeholders.

 Procurement methods (Table A)


The following procurement methods and thresholds are adopted for this project. In order to facilitate the
procurement process the simplified procurement procedures are applied. Aggregate ceiling amounts for
each procurement method are not predetermined.       However, the procurement plan will be updated as
necessary by the borrower and it will be reviewed in detail during the supervision mission that is to be
carried out at least twice in a year.

The general strategy is to procure the equipment, civil works and services in larger packages, making
contractors responsible for supply and installation of equipment. This would minimize coordination
needs on the part of the implementing agency and simplify project implementation, mitigating the risk of
project delays.

Procurementof Works. All four Civil works contracts will be carried out under ICB. These contracts
are: Landfill Construction and Operation; Cleaning up the Territory of Karbid Site; River and Zhaur
Swamp Excavation; and Rehabilitation of Intumak Reservoir. Prequalification would be carried out for
all civil works contracts estimated to cost US$10 million or more.

Procurementof Goods. Contracts for the supply of goods valued at more than US$100,000 will be
procured under ICB. There will be one ICB contract for equipment for 17 gauging stations, and one for
sampling materials. International Shopping (IS) may be used for goods valued at US$100,000 or less per
contract. The equipment for three laboratories would be procured through ISprocedure.

ProcmrementofConsultingServices. Recruitment of consulting firms to assist in construction
supervision, detailed design and other consulting services estimated to cost more than US$100,000 will
be carried out normally under the Quality and Cost-Based Selection method (QCBS) in accordance with
the Bank Guidelines. For technical and financial auditing of less than US$200,000 per contract, the Least
Cost Selection (LCS) method may apply. The short list may comprise entirely national consultants ifthe
estimated cost of the assignment is below US$100,000.




                                                   -48 -

                           Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                               (US$ million equivalent)


                                                               Procuremren Method
     15Ex,nditure Category                     ICa                                    Other2_
                                                                          _                            N.B.F.       Total Cost

1. Works                                       55.98                0.00               0.00              0.00         55.98
                                              (39.19)              (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)        (39.19)
2. Goods                                       0.68                 0.00               0.12              0.00          0.80
                                              (0.68)               (0.00)             (0.12)           (0.00)         (0.80)
3. Services                                    0.00                 0.00               8.72              0.00          8.72
                                              (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Incremental Operations                      0.00                 0.00               0.33              1.59          1.92
Cost
                                              (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                               0.00                 0.00               0.40              0.00          0.40
                                              (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.40)           (0.00)         (0.40)
   Total                                       56.66                0.00               9.57              1.59         67.82

                                              (39.87)              (0.00)             (0.52)            (0.00)        (40.39)

  "Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

  21
   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services (including financial
   audit), services ofcontracted staffof the project nianagement office, training, technical assistance services, and
   incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project fumds to local government
   units.




                                                         - 49 -

                        Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                           (US$ million equivalent)


   'Consultant Servces                                      L     ~     C          te                 oa
   lip6viouie Catetori  jE Q     e     --  s              - L__               .    _-er
                                                                                      _    M._S.    todo cad
 A. Firms                     6.80      0.00      0.00       0.50       0.00      0.00      0.00       7.30
                             (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)
 B. Individuals              0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      1.50      0.00       1.50
                             (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)
                      Total  6.80       0.00      0.00      0.50        0.00      1.50      0.00       8.80
                             (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)

  Including contingencies

           Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section Vof Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
                 Practices, etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.


Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)

For each ICB civil works contract estimated to cost US$500,000 or more and the first contract
irrespective ofthe contract value will be subject to prior review by the Bank. For Goods each ICB
contract estimated to cost US$250,000 or more and the first ICB contract irrespective ofthe contract
value, and the first two IS packages will be subject to prior review. With respect to services, prior Bank
review will be required for all terms of reference, irrespective of the contract value. For each contract
with a consulting firm estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, the technical evaluation report will be
submitted to the Bank for its review prior to the opening of the priced proposals. For contracts with
individual consultants costing US$50,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms ofreference and
terms of employment shall be furnished to the Bank for review prior to contract signature. All other
contracts will be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.




                                                    - 50 -

                                  Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Method and Prior Review



     Category                  ICB               NCB                     IS                NS            Other Methods
1. Civil Works
1.1 Procurement            >$500,000             N/A                  N/A                N/A                   N/A
Thresholds
1.2 Prior Review         >$500,000 and           N/A                  N/A                N/A                  N/A
                        the first contract
2. Goods
2 1Procurement             >$100,000             N/A              <$100,000              N/A                  N/A
Thresholds
2.2 Prior Review         >$250,000 and           N/A                First Two            N/A                  N/A
                        the first contract
                             QCBS                LCS                    IC                             _

3. Consultants
3.1 Prior Review           >$100,000          >$ 100,000            >$50,000
                         otherwise TOR     otherwise TOR        otherwise TOR

                 Note Ex-post Review will be conducted for all post review contracts dunng the supervision mission.

             Table Bl. Capacity of the Project Management Unit in Procurement and Assistance Requirements in
                                                 Procurement Monitoring System

       A capacity Assessment ofthe Borrower was carried out in June 2001 and updated inNovember 2002 and the
        following arrangements have been agreed taking into account the expenence gained in similar environmental
       projects financed by the Bank.

       The overall implementation responsibility for the proposed project rests with the Committee for Water Resources
       (CWR) ofMinistry ofAgnculture. CWR will be assisted by a Project Management Unit (PMU) which will have its
       main office in Astana within CWR and a branch office in Karaganda for day-to-day supervision ofproject activities
       and coordination with local stakeholders. The PMU will be headed by a technical Coordinator and supported by a
       Procurement Specialist, a FMS, and an accountant.

       Considering the lack of Bank procurement experience in the PMU and the current procurement environment in
       Kazakstan,-the overall risk assessment for the proposed project is rated as medium to high To mitigate the
       procurement risk, procurement training will be provided through an extensive Project Launch workshop which will
       take place in September 2003 or prior to Loan Effectiveness whichever is earlier. Funding is also provided for
       further training ofthe procurement specialist at the ILO Institute inTurin. In addition, the services of an
        international procurement expert, with sufficient experience inBank financed procurement, will be contracted on as
       and when needed basis. This expert will provide on the job training to the PMU's local procurement expert and
       other CWR and PMU staff. Moreover, service support from Bank's Procurement Specialist at the Resident Mission
       in Almaty will also be available on day-to-day procurement issues. Besides, procurement and pnor review
       thresholds have been established on conservative basis (Table B).

       Country Procurement Assessment Report status: carried out in June 2000
       Are the bidding documentsfor theprocurement actionsfor thefirstyear ready by negotiations: Yes. Preparation
       of Bidding Documents for AO Karbide Plant site clean-up financed from JEP Grant will be completed by March
       2003.
                         TRAINING INFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT ON PROCUREMENT



                                                                 - 51 -

EstimatedDateofProjectLaunch Workshop: September2003
Dateofpubllcation of GeneralProcurementNotice: December31 2002
Indicateif thereisprocurementsubject to mandatorySPN inDevelopmentBusiness: Yes
Domestic PreferenceforGoods: Yes Domestic PreferenceforWorks, if applicable:No
Retroactivefinancing:No ProjectPreparationFacility:No Advance Procurement:No
Explain briefly the ProcurementMonitoringSystem:

The Commnittee for Water Resources will be assisted by the Project Management Unit based in Astana, in planning
procurement ofworks, goods and services, preparation of bidding docunents, bid evaluations, contract management
and project monitoring. PMU's procurement expert will be responsible for the procurement activities. For complex
issues, he will seek guidance from the international procurement specialist. All procurement documents requiring
prior review would be cleared by a PAS and appropriate technical staff. All the procurement information is to be
kept by the procurement expert of PMU. The Quarterly Progress Report will be submitted to CWR, Ministry of
Finance and the World Bank. The infornation will include (i) revised cost estimates for each contract; (b) revised
procurement plan indicating each procurement step.


Co-financing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing: JICA (Japan) has confirmed its
interest in possible parallel co-financing ofthe Intumak Reservoir rehabilitation component of the project, including
its related follow-up monitoring requirements.
                                     SECTION 4: PROCUREMENT STAFFING
Indicatenameof ProcurementStafforBank'sstaffpartof Task Team responsiblefortheprocurementin the
Project:Takao Ikegami (PAS), Sr. Sanitary Engineer, (202) 473-2334; tikegamiiworldbank.org
Explainbriefly the expected roleof the FieldOffice in Procurement:
The service support will be expected from the Resident Mission in Almaty upon decentralization ofprocurement
functions which is expected to be on July 1,2003.




                                                        - 52 -

                                                     ......                       -~~~Numbero                                 Su'Contrac
                                                                                                    ~~~Methods
                             -      Component                       Type           Contracts                           d       ,-oBs.              Sing        -




       AndIcons~itrucand ope6ation,(cofiV1a                         fCW         _      ____        _____               Sep-103         Dsc-0,3          Jan-04



 A.2 Ckan3ng up the territor-y of l(arDide S.t8 tcorrnp
 lb)                                                                 ON                   I          B kp6qUJ1l).      Sep-03          De,c03            Jan.04
 A.3 River and Znaur Swernp.Excavalcoi (coffp 1c)                    ON_______                                          JuL04        -Sep-03            Jan- 04




 A.4 Rehabdtation of inturrek Flaservoir (corrp 2)                   ON                            K (Requalj          Nov .05         Jan-06Wn0


 B. Goods                                                                                         ______




 B I Eqipmnt   nfor3 labcwalorles ind Data               >                                 ~'
                                                                                     *            -

 acquisitdon anvdtransrmsan certers(corrv 3)                 .'       G2                                  IS           Oct-03          NoIv-03          Dec 03



 B.2 Ecuipmunt for 17 gauging station (con-p 3)                       G                            f     i               c-3          D-c 03 .          jan.-03

 B.3 Sarmpling malarial (c2) - ,        - ,0                                                                           Oct-03        -Dec -03       ,Jan-03



 C; Consulting Servicesa                                                                                                                           ~
 Cl Doaiiled Design                          -Consultant                        _____

                 -        ruaRNef Cean-uplcornp.1cl          _______              -Q-~                 :CSB:s     '    Sep-03        §e-3               Jan~04

          ~~*~>   --       -:     -    bM~Inumrak
                                              icoff-p 2)                                          7-' OCSB-    -       Nov-04   --    Dec-04  -         Ap-r-05
 C2 Co6nitrction Supervision       -    --                       Consultant                 --    -

               -- --) lLanidfml'construction(corirp      a)                               1               CS--       .Sep-03          Dec-03    .~-     Jan-04
 ""-Karbite site Cisan-up (con-p ibi &Nvura i4verbrd-

                             - '-'---canu (omfp
                                     i                 IC)   ______              _____                   CBJu041                     -Sep-04            ian-OS


                     ""-I-ntunukRbabtatlon (con-v 2)         _________                                    CBNov-0S                     Jan-066          Jun-06



 C.3 tintumfalk
              BILue
                  Rfbbon' Finel (c'orp3)                     -'con~la&-                   0I,,                          o-4-'o'-04                      Jn

C.4 l*nltorln Lab te'sni (~on'p3                                                                                              ~-~Dec-03
                                                   -           CoDnsultants        .6'                 -,I-          ' Oct,~03                 l        uJa-04
               CS tnstitulonal
                 Dvepn~nf(~oip 3)-i-                      -      Consultant*-                         OQC8S i      7   Oct-b3   -        o     -        Feb-,04
 C.6 Plopact Managernan: Lln i corro 41                         Consultants              3       -        CS        -1Feb-03  -         a-3Apr-03


                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~Jan-03
                                                           - -  ,,-7-.-
                                                                 Consultant j'.-              -          IC         '                 Feb-0             Mar03
                           `Landfil constructionWe1)                                   -~-




                                  Inu-kRehabilttetlop (c2)                                                                    _____            -- ;--s-


                Q8 AO KarbideSite
                       Manitorig (clb)I    --                   Cnsultant,               1IAp-3                                       Jn-03             Sep-03

C g Flrnriclai Auditng (c4)                                       osutn                  3    *L                  -    Dec-03. '      Jn04My                04
 C.10 Consultants for matherretcal n-idelking(c.2),             Coslat               '"-                 CS'     -     Ot0           Nov-3
                                                                                                                                      i-          ".-Jan-04
C. 11 ODnsultantforsarnplng-(c.2)                               C4onsultant,             1QGBS,                        Oct-03         Nov-03i      -   Sep-03
,C 12'Consuftant for Manual Devetoprunt (c,2)-                  Consultnt,          -    1u     "%r QCBS               Oct 03         Nv0         '    Sp0




                                                                                 53-

             Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                         KAZAKHSTAN: NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT

Financial Management

1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
An assessment of the Financial Management arrangements for the Project was undertaken during
appraisal to determine whether the financial management arrangements are acceptable to the Bank.
These financial management arrangements include the PMU's systems ofaccounting, financial reporting,
staffing, auditing, and internal controls in place during the project preparation phase.

The result of the assessment is that the Project satisfies the minimum WB FM requirements. A financial
management action plan was developed and agreed with the PMU to further strengthen the FM
arrangements ofthe Project beyond the minimum WB FM requirements.

A summary ofthe financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:

FinancialManagement                    Rating            Comments
Assessment
1.Implementing Entity                   Satisfactory     PMU within Committee of Water
                                                         Resources to manage project
2. Funds Flow                           Satisfactory     Simple funds' flow arrangement
3. Staffing                           Satisfactory      PMU finance manager and
                                                        accountant/cashier
4. Accounting Policies and            Satisfactory      FM Manual documents all accounting and
Procedures                                              related operational aspects ofthe project
5. Internal Audit                     NA                No reliance placed on internal audit
6. External Audit                     Satisfactory      PMU will make audit arrangements that are
                                                        acceptable to the Bank.; Appointment of
                                                        acceptable auditor will be a Credit
                                                        Agreement dated covenant
7. Reporting and Monitoring           Satisfactory      FMR's prepared in accordance with WB
                                                        requirements
8. Information Systems                Satisfactory      PMU has implemented "IC" software
                                                        program that fully integrates WB reporting
                                                        requirements (in accordance with FMR
                                                        guidelines)

OverallFinancialManagement             Satisfactory
Rating



County FinancialManagementIssues

A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Kazakhstan had been carried out and
completed in CY2002. The draft CFAA report identifies several areas of strength in the country,
including an educated work force, strong accounting skills, and a commitment to reform. The areas for
improvement included strengthening the internal audit function ofthe Committee ofFinancial Control
and the independence of the external audit function of the Accounting Committee. The findings of the
CFAA were disseminated to key Kazakhstan Government officials during a 1/2 day workshop on 2 April


                                                    - 54 -

2003 and currently, there is expected to be no impact of the proposed recommendations included in the
CFAA on the financial management arrangements of the Nura River project.

Implementingentity

The Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) has overall responsibility for the Project and has assigned
responsibility for its implementation to the Committee for Water Resources (CWR). A Project
Management Unit (PMU) within the CWR will carry out the day-to-day activities of the project. The
PMU Project Coordinator reports directly to the Chairman ofthe CWR, who in turn reports to the MoA.
The PMU will carry out the project preparation activities under the PHRD Grant and the PMU will
continue during IBRD Loan.

The PMU will be headed by a Project Coordinator and during the project preparation activities of the
project, the financial management arrangements will be carried out by a Finance Manager. The Finance
Manager is fully familiar with the bank financial management and disbursement requirements and the
system that is being set up is fully satisfactory to the Bank.

FundsFlows

The PMU established within the Committee for Water Resources (CWR) will require the authorization of
the CWR Chairman to operate and access fimds within the Special Account (SA). The SA has been
opened at a commercial bank in Kazakhstan which is acceptable to the World Bank, in accordance with
the WB requirements.

Once the agreement is signed and the beneficiary's contribution agreed, the PMU will start executing
payments for the relevant sub-component activities, as invoices are received from the suppliers. Invoices
will be certified by the PMU in order to ensure that all the relevant goods were delivered, works done
and services rendered, as per the technical specifications and terms of reference and then submitted to the
CWR Chairman for authorization. The PMU will then execute the payments from each financing source
in accordance with the financing agreement.

Government contributions will be received in a project account (denominated in Kazakhstani tenge),
separate from the main budgetary account of the Government, that will be used specifically for the
Government contribution to the Project. Government contributions will be received monthly, directly
from the MoF, as part of the annual budgetary process.

The PMU will have the full rights to operate both the special and project accounts. All documentation
pertaining to the project (relating to Credit funds, to the Government contributions and other donors as
applicable) will be kept at the PMU.

Staffing

The PMU includes the Project Coordinator, finance manager (responsible for FM reporting for both Nura
River and Northeast Water Supply Project), accountant / cashier (performs general office duties and petty
cash arrangements for Nura River, Northeast Water Supply and Syr Darya Projects), and a procurement
specialist. The finance manager will be responsible for the planning, budgeting, consolidation and
reporting aspects, handle all financial accounting records, ensure that accounting records are kept up to
date in the accounting software. The finance manager will also establish permanent contacts with the
beneficiaries, the Bank, accounting departments of the relevant ministries, auditors and the Ministry of
Finance.

The PMU staffwill be responsible for: preparing the bidding documents; receive the offers and evaluate
them in accordance with the WB regulations; submit the evaluations to the WB for no objection; sign
contracts in an acceptable format; supervise the works performed by the contractors; certify (jointly with
the beneficiaries' representatives) the acceptance of the goods, works and services provided in


                                                      - 55 -

accordance with the terms of reference and the relevant technical specifications. The payment
documents will be prepared by the PMU only after the fulfillment of the above steps and submitted to the
Chairman of the Committee for Water Resources (CWR) for review and approval. Group A signing
authority resides with the Ministry of Finance and Group B signing authority rests with the Chairman and
Deputy Chairman of the CWR.

AccountingPoliciesandProcedures

A financial management consultant company (Altair 2002, Kazakhstan) has developed the financial
management system for the Project, in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02. The system features a
customized accounting software fully responsive to the needs of Nura River Cleanup Project.           The
finance manager of the PMU will be the primary operator of the software, with the PMU Project
Coordinator responsible for reviewing and approving all payments submitted to the Chairman of the
Committee for Water Resources (CWR).

The FM consultant company assisted the PMU in finalizing the implementation and inputting the final
cost estimates in the system. The software manual for "1C" has been provided by Altair 2002 and will be
used by the finance manager. The financial management manual has been prepared by the finance
manager.    The FM manual documents the accounting procedures, internal controls and measures to
ensure complete segregation of duties and avoid areas ofpotential conflict of interest.

The PMU staff, together with FM consultant, have developed a specific chart of accounts, detailed
financial statements, reporting formats and methods, intemal control procedures, disbursement and flow
of funds arrangements, and assigned staff responsibilities in order to ensure a complete segregation of
duties. The PMU will be fully in charge of recording and consolidating all payments, procurement,
contracting, disbursement, reporting, accounting, planning, budgeting and auditing relating to the Project.
Detailed accounts will be maintained for each Project component, its sub-components, and expenditure
types (goods, works, services).      The accounts will also reflect: the status of payment against each
contract; utilization of the Special Account (SA) and replenishments made by the Bank; the amounts
used from the Govemment contribution and other donors, and statements of sources and application of
funds.
The PMU will maintain the Project accounts on the cash basis of accounting. The PMU will be
responsible for preparing Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and statements of expenses (SOEs) and
submitting them to the World Bank, no later than 45 days after each quarter's end.

InternalAudit

There is no intemal audit function in the unit and no reliance is being placed by the Bank on any intemal
Government of Kazakhstan financial reviews.

ReportingandMonitoring

The Project will prepare and submit Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) in a form and frequency agreed
with the Bank. The FMRs will be customized to reflect the country circumstances and the needs of the
project, while meeting the Bank's minimum information requirements for the financial monitoring of the
Project.

The FMR will therefore include (a) statement of sources and uses of funds by component and
sub-component (including budget to actual comparisons and explanation of significant variances) (b) a
detailed schedule for tracking disbursements against specific contracts for civil works, goods and
consultants services, (c) output monitoring report and (d) a statement of reconciliation of the special
account. The PMU will submit the quarterly FMRs for the Project to the Bank starting with the period in
which disbursements will commence (most likely in the quarter ended March 31, 2004) and quarterly
thereafter, no later than 45 days after the relevant quarter's end.



                                                     - 56 -

The project will also prepare annual financial statements, in a form acceptable to the Bank, and these will
be submitted for external audit.

AccountingSoftware

The features of the financial management software will include, inter alia, customizable chart of
accounts, foreign and local currency, English and Russian language, Excel and Word exporting, and
integrated FMRs. The system has been developed, customized and installed by the financial management
firm selected, "Altair 2002", an Astana-based entity.     The system is based upon the "IC" enterprise
package (off-the-shelf) produced in Russia and widely used by WB financed projects in Kazakhstan and
Central Asia.

The system has been customized to respond to the Project components and specifics and will be able to
produce routine reports such as: trial balance, general ledger, balance sheet, income and expenditure
statement by sources of funds, cash flow, suppliers' ledger, and various budgets.

The software system has been modified to produce the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR's)
in accordance with the Bank's Financial Management requirements.

The PMU will maintain full accounting records for the Project, including details by Project components,
sub-components, expenditure type (such as, goods, works and services), and financing source (WB,
Govemment contribution, and other donors, as applicable).

A detailed FM manual of accounting procedures relevant to the Project has been prepared by the Finance
Manager. The manual documents the accounting procedures, intemal controls and measures to ensure
complete segregation of duties and avoid any potential conflict of interest. All accounting entries will be
maintained in both United States Dollars (USD) and in the Kazakhstani currency, Tenge.


2. Audit Arrangements

Annual audits for the project accounts will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelinesfor
FinancialReportingand Auditing of ProjectsFinancedby the World Bank. The audit reports
will be in a format in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by
the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The audit reports will include a separate
opinion on the operation of the Special Accounts and on disbursements made on the basis of
SOEs. The audited financial statements, including the audit of the special accounts, and SOEs
will be sent to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.

The PMU will have the project accounts audited (including special and project accounts and all
statements of expenditures) in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, by a firm of
independent auditors acceptable to the WB.

Appointment of independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank is a dated covenant specified in the
Credit Agreement.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursements from the IBRD Loan will be made based on traditional disbursement methods. That is,
from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and
full documentation, and direct payments from the Loan Account.

Disbursements will be made upon receipt by IBRD of fully documented applications, except for contracts
valued at less than US$500,000 each for works, and US$250,000 for goods, which would be made



                                                   - 57 -

against certified statements ofexpenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be
retained by the Borrower and made available to IBRD during supervision.

To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower has established a Special Account (SA) with a local
commercial bank, Kazkommertsbank on terns and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of
the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for
replenishment would follow standard Bank procedures as described in Disbursement Handbook, Chapter
6. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, would
accompany all replenishment requests.

Initial training of PMU staff will be carried out under the TA component of the project.

 Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)


                                   Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

            npeii     a
  --
  ;16wRD£IERED5          --                   A n nunt in 1LlSU Milllo0   _     _     __           t__g__.
 Works                                                  36.06                             70%
 Goods                                                  0.79                100% of foreign goods, 100% of
                                                                           ex-factory cost of goods procureed
                                                                          locally, 84% ofother locally procured
                                             .__________________________
                                              ___  ______     _g                          oods.
Unallocated                                             3.14

 Total Project Costs                                    39.99
                            Front-end fee               0.40                              100%

Total                                                   40.39



 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):


Disbursements will be fully documented, except that Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be used for:
(i) contracts for goods of less than US $250,000 equivalent; and (ii) contracts for works of less than US
$500,000 each. Full documentation in support ofeach SOE will be retained by the PIU for at least one
year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made for
the relevant SOE. This information will be available for review by Bank missions during supervision, and
by auditors. The minimum application size for payments directly from the loan account and for issuance
of special commitments is 20% ofthe current Special Account authorized allocation.


 Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, a Special Account (SA), the Borrower has
established a Special Account (SA) for each Project with a local commercial bank, Kazkommertsbank to
be maintained and operated by the PMU under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. During the
early stage of the project, the initial allocation ofthe SA would be limited to US$250,000. However,
when the aggregate disbursements and sum ofall outstanding special commitments under the Loan have
reached the level of US$5.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized



                                                      - 58 -

allocation of US$0.5 million. Replenishment applications would be submitted on a monthly basis, and
include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The authorized
allocation for the SA would be reviewed if a PMR-based disbursement method is used. Accounting for
Special Account transactions and for all other project-related accounts will be maintained in accordance
with the World Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook, January 1995. The SA
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.


Supervision Plan

The development for further strengthening the financial management system, accounting policies and
procedures and staff development will be monitored before effectiveness, during the first supervision
mission and throughout project implementation.


The reports of the progress ofthe project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. The FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the field-based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Financial audit reports of each project will be reviewed
and issues identified will be followed up. The field based FMS will monitor the agreed action plan to
ensure that the appropriate remaining actions have been implemented by the PMU.


During the Bank's supervision missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement
arrangements (including a review of a sample of SOEs and movements on the Special Account) to ensure
compliance with the Bank's minimum requirements. It is envisaged that the FM supervision missions are
carried out every three months initially, and subject to satisfactory FM performance by the PMU the
frequency may be reduced.




                                                   - 59 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                     KAZAKlHSTAN: HURA RIVER CLEANUIP PROJECT


Projecti Schedule                                           Flinned                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)               24                      40

First Bank mission (identification)                                              05/01/1998

Appraisal mission departure                              11/01/2002               11/05/2002

Negotiations                                             01/20/2003              02/24/2003

Planned Date of Effectiveness                            06/30/2003


Prepared by:
Committee for Water Resources, Government of Kazakhstan


Preparation assistance:
Austrian Consultant Trust Fund (Posch & Partners)
TACIS/JEP (Ramboll International/ERM)
PHRD (BCEOM, Timothy Van Epp)
Italian Consultant Trust Fund (Carlo Lotti & Associates)

Bank staff who worked on the project included:
        .-.am6 - -P                -w                     pec-;-aat -  -.   -_  2        ;     =
Piotr Krzyzanowski                       TTL, Environment and Water Resosurces
Anil Markandaya                          Economics
Margaret Wilson                          Finance
Tijen Arin                               Economics
Kirsten Oleson                           Environmental Engineering
Takao Ikegami                            Procurement
Evgeny Tyrtyshny                         Operations Officer, Astana
Kathy Sharrow                            Team Assistant
Kimberly Heuckroth                       Junior Professional Associate
Da Zhu                                   Young Professional
Allen Wazny                              Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Rohan Selvaratnam                        Operational Analyst




                                                 - 60 -

                           Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                       KAZAKHSTAN: NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan

Operations Manual
Project Implementation Plan

B. Bank Staff Assessments

Financial Management Capacity Assessment
Procurement Capacity Assessment

C. Other

Nura River Basin Management - Institutional Assessment
Nura River Clean-up Project - Environmental Assessment
Nura River Clean-up Project - Feasibility Study
Dam Safety Assessment - Intumak
Dam Safety Assessments - Samarkand and Sherubianur
Including electronic files




                                               -61 -

                                       Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                  KAZAKHSTAN: NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT
                                                      26-Mar-2003
                                                                                                              Diflerence between expected
                                                                                                                       and actual
                                                            Original Amount in US$ Millions                          disbursements

 Project ID   FY   Purpose                             IBRD          IDA                       Cancel. Undisb.       Ong    Frm Revd
P046045      2001 SYR DARYA CONTROLUNO ARAL SEA           64.50       0.00                        000    59 62         329        000

P065414      2000 ELEC TRANS REHAB                       140.00       0.00                        0.00   11954        8274        000

P008499      1999 ROAOTRANSP RESTRUC                     100.00       000                         000     2286        12.53       0.00
P008500      1999 ATYRAU PILOT WATER                      16.50       0.00                        000      506         462        000
P008503      1998 AG POST PRIV ASST (APL #1)              1500        0 00                        000      192         192        000

P008507      1997 UZEN OIL FIELD REiHAB                  109 00       000                         000     3848       38 48       18 79

P008510      1996 IRRiG &DRAiNAGE                         8000        000                         000     1104         971        000

                                                Total   52500         000                         000    25853       153.29      18.79




                                                          - 62 -

                                        KAZAKHSTAN
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                   Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                          Jun 30 - 2002
                                       In Millions US Dollars


                                                          Committed                         Disbursed
                                                        IFC                               IFC

FY Approval    Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic

1994/95/98     ABN AMRO Kazak                    0 00      2.57      0.00    0.00    0 00   2.57     0.00   0 00
2000           FIOC                              0.00      0.01      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.01     0.00   0.00
               IK                                7.49      0.00      0.00    0.00    7.49   0.00     0.00   0.00
1998           Kazgermunai                       0.00      0.68     30.75    0.00    0.00   0.38    12.71   0.00
1996           Kazkomnmertsbank                  2.50      0.00      0.00    0.00    2.50   0.00     0.00   0.00
1997/99        Rambutya LLP                       1.93     0.00      0.00    0.00     193   0.00     0.00   0.00
1999/02        SEF CASPI Ltd.                    2.50      0.00      0.00    0.00    2.50   0.00     0.00   0.00
2001           SEF Const. Mat                    0.87      0.25      0.00    0 00    0.67   0.00     0.00   0.00
1999           SEF LP-GAZ Ltd.                   2.00      0.00      0.00    0.00     1.00  0.00     0.00   0.00
2000           SEF NefteBank                     0.00      0.00      2 50    0.00    0.00   0.00     2.50   0.00
2001           Sazankurak                       14.17      0.00      5.00    0.00    9.17   0.00     5.00   0.00
2000           TuranAlem                         5.05      4.95      5.00    0.00    5.05   4.95     5.00   0.00
1999
                      Total Portfolio:          36.51      8.46     43.25     0 00   30.31   7.91    25.21  0.00



                                                      Approvals Pending Commrtment

FY Approval    Company                              Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic

2002           Karachaganak                         50.00     25.00       0.00     75.00
2000           Agrokaz                               3.50       0.00      0 00      0.00
2001           Kazkommertsbk 2                      15.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
2001           Ispat Karmet SME                      0.00       3.37      0.00      0.00
2002           Astana Tower                          5.00       0.00      0.00      0.00

               Total Pending Commitment:            73.50     28.37       0.00     75.00




                                               -63 -

                                                        Annex 10: Country ata Glance

                                  KAZAKHSTAN:                     iUPA       RIVER CLEAN\!UP PROJECT
                                                                                 Europo a       Loror-
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                                Control     middle-
                                                                 Kzakhhotan          Asia      Incomo           Dovolopmont dlomond'
 2001
 Population, mia-year (millions)                                         148           475        2.164                        Life expectancy
 GNI per caoita (Atlas method, USS)                                    1.350         1,960        1.240
 GNI (Aflas method, USS billions)                                        20.1          930        2.677

 Avorago annual growth, 1995-01

 Population X)                                                           -1.0           01          1.0
 Labbr force (%)                                                         -0.1           0.6         1 2        GNI                                         Gross
                                                                                                               per                                        primary
 Moot recont estimate (latest year avolloblo. 1995-01)                                                         capita                                  enrollment

 Poverty (% population below nationalpoverty line)
             of                                                            32
 Urban population (16 of total population)                                 56           63           46
 Llte expectancy at birth (years)                                          66           69           69
 Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                  19           20           33
 Child malnutrition (6 of children under 5)                                 4                        11               Access toimproved water source
Access to an Improved water source (16 of population)                      91           90          80
 Illiteracy (%of population age 15.)                                                      3          15
Gross primary enrollment (1 ofschool-age population)                       97          102          107                    Kazakhstan
     Male                                                                 97           103          107                    Lower-middle-income group
     Female                                                               97           101          107

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS ond LONG-TERMi                  TRENDS

                                                            1981        1991         2000         2001
                                                                                                               Ecenomic ratIos'
GOP (US$ billions)                                                .     31.8          18.3         22 4
Gross domestic lnvestmentlGDP                                                         17.9         25 8
Exports of goods and services/GOP                                                     58.8         483                              Trade
Gross domestic savinpis/GDP                                                           27T3         23 4
Gross national savings/GDP                                                            21.9         18.7                               T

Current account balance/GDP                                                            2 3         -78         Domestic                               Investment
Interest payments/GDP                                                                  3 9          3.1        sains
Total debUGDP                                                                        64.5          64 2        savings
Total debt service/exports                                                           31.4          31 1
Present value o1 debtlGOP                                                            36 6
Present value of debtlexports                                                        63 0
                                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                           1981-91      1991-01        2000          2001     2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP'                                                         -1 9         9 8         13 2          5.9                     Kazakhstan
GDP per capita                                               -0 9       10 2          13 5          0.0                     Lower-middle-income group
Exports Of/oods    and services                              -0 5       32 9          -3 3          7.2

STRUCTURE of tho ECONOMY
                                                           1981        1991          2000         2001         Growth of Invostmont and GDP (Y)
(16 of GOP)                                                                                                    s
Agriculture                                                                            86           9 0
Industry                                                                             40 9         38.8         2-
   Manufacluring                                                                      18 3         15.6     o     __
Services                                                                             50 5          52 3       .2                       9S       s9o     50 o1

Private consumption                                                                  57 9         60 1         ss
General government consumption                                                       14 8          16 5                             G0l        -'-GDP
Imports of goods and services                                                        493          487                               GDI7OGDP


(average annual growth)                                 1981-91     1991-01          2000         2001         Growth ofoxpert5 snd Imparts (%)
Agriculture                                                              -6 2         -33         16.9        us
Industry                                                                 -5.6        16 4         15.1        200-
   Manufacturing                                                                     15 6         14 8
Services                                                                  3 5          7 4        10 8

Private consumption                                                     -2 9           4 1        189         20
General government consumption                                          -4 4         36 7         19. 6
Gross domestic Investment                                              -10 0           6 0        28 0                           E.ports          1
                                                                                                                                                  nrport
Imports of goods and services                                           -6 7         286          10.5

Nots 2001 date era preliminary OatimataO
 The diamonds alih lout key indicators In the -noftry (In bold) compared with ItsIncme.-group oversge If date are mis-niv the diamond will bo i-omplet




                                                                                - 64-

                                                                                                               Kazakhstan

PRICES and GOVERNMENT         FINANCE
                                              1981    1991     2000    2001    Inflation (%)
Domestic prices20
(%change)                                                                     200

Consumer pnces                                   .    47.1       9 8     6 4  'so
Implicit GDP deflator                            .    96.4     17 4    11.6   iso

Govemment flnance                                                               50o
(%ofGDP, includes current   grants)                                              o
                                                                                                                             01
Currentrevenue                                                 21 8    216               96   97      98       99      00

Current budget balance                                           14      2.3                  GDP deflator     ---OCPI

Overall surplus/deficit                                         -1 0    -49


TRADE

(US$ millions)                                1981    1991     2000    2001     Export and Import levels (USS   mill)

Total exports (fob)                                           9,277   9.101    i0.500

  Fuel and oil products                                  .    427
                                                              4f8     4.733

  Ferrous metals                                              1.178   1.009     7.500

  Manufactures                                   .              670   1,490     s                             NIL
                                                                                                                       *
Total imports (cif)                                       .   7.238   8,554              *                *

  Food                                                          539     836     2.500

  Fuel and energy                                         .     572      790
  Capital goods                                           .   2.405   2,837         0                           in

Export price index (1995=100)                    ..
Import price index (1995=100)                     .                                            Exports.          rImports

Terms of trade (1995=100)                                .


BALANCE of PAYMENTS

(US$ millions)                                1981    1991     2000    2001     Current account balance to GDP    (%)

Exports of goods and servces                     ..           10.419  10,393     s
 Imports of goods and services                                9,004   11,077
Resource balance                                     .        1,415     -684

Netincome                                                    -1,194   -1,215                                         00

 Net current transfers                            .              191     150

 Current accountbalance                                          412  -1.749    . -5

Financng items (net)                                      .    -271    2.133
 Changes in net reserves                          .             -141    -384    _15

 Memo:
 Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..      .    2,096    2.508
 Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                 . 5 10E-3    142.1   146.7


 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE           FLOWS
                                              1981    1991     2000    2001
 (USS millions)                                                                 ComposItion of 2001 debt (USS    mill.)

 Total debt outstanding anddisbursed                      .  11,805   14,373
   IBRD                                                        1,057   1,070                  G 832    A 1,070
                                                                                                                E640
   IDA                                                             0       0

 Total debt service                                            3.338   3.331                                       D 438

   IBRD                                              .            83     101
   IDA                                           .        .        0       0

 Compositon of net resource flows
   Ofricial grants                                                44                      \                  - -

   Official crediors                             .        .       36      34
   Pnvate creditors                                              868   2.128
   Foreign dirct investment                          .         1,250   2,731

   Portfolio equity                              ..       .,       0
                                                                                            F 11,393

 World Bank program
                                                                                                                  E-Bilateral
   Commitments                                                     0      65    A -IBRD

   Disbursements                                 ..       .       50     114    8- IDA     D- Othermuftilateral   F-Pnvate

   Pnncipal repayments                                   .        20      47    C-IMF                             G-ShJrt-term

   Net flows                                      .               30      67
   Interest payments                             ..               63      53
   Net transfers                                                 -33      13

 Uevelopment Economics                                                                                                   Y11ObUL




                                                            -65 -

                         Additional Annex 11: EA - Executive Summary
                       KAZAKHSTAN: NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT

July 2002
ES-10, Final EA
                                         EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Background

The Nura River in the northeastern part of Kazakhstan served for many years as a receptacle for a brew
of untreated industrial wastes. Ofparticular concern, the carbide factory in Temirtau discharged large
quantities of mercury into the river for 25 years. Mercury is a very toxic, mobile, persistent and
bioaccumulative pollutant. The discharges ceased when the factory closed, but surveys ofthe factory
site, river channel and floodplains conducted by international and Kazakh experts suggest that large
quantities of mercury remain in the environment.

Some 1.5 million people live in the Nura-Ishim river basin. Most live in the national capital, Astana, and
the cities of Karaganda and Temirtau, which together have a population of 925,000. The agricultural
users in the Nura basin are found in scattered, small communities throughout the basin. Farmers once
relied on highly subsidized irrigation systems, but with the removal of subsidies, most farmers abandoned
irrigation and now rely on subsistence rainfed farming. Although many industrial enterprises have closed
or scaled down production in the face of world market competition, water-consumptive heavy industry
continues to employ the bulk of workers in the basin. In addition to serving direct human needs, the Nura
eventually discharges into the Kugaldzino wetlands, an internationally-recognized nature reserve.

For many years, the basin residents consumed the highly polluted waters, but with Kazakhstan's
independence, the mercury and other pollution became known and human use ofNura waters virtually
ceased. Water supply alternatives to the Nura exist, however the Kazakhstan National Environmental
Action Plan and other studies have assessed water management options and identified Nura River
mercury cleanup as a top priority for providing long-term water supply to the basin.

In order to solve the problem of future water supply for the region, the Government of Kazakhstan
(GOK) has requested the World Bank to prepare a loan for mercury cleanup from the Nura. The project
objective is to provide users in the Nura-Ishim basin with access to safe, reliable, and affordable water
supplies by cleaning up the mercury pollution, instituting effective water quality protection measures,
and optimizing use of available water resources. Inproved water supply from the Nura will in turn help
meet additional demand for Astana; increase reliance on local water resources by basin users; and
increase summertime flows to the Kurgaldzhino wetlands.

This loan project is part of the integrated World Bank Strategy for Kazakhstan. The Borrower for this
project is the GOK Ministry ofFinance. The main beneficiary is the GOK Committee for Water
Resources of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection (CWR). The main
components of the loan are clean-up of sites contaminated with mercury in the Nura River basin;
rehabilitation of the spillway at the Intumak Reservoir; and institutional strengthening for water quality
protection and water resources management. The Intumak Reservoir rehabilitation is included
conditionally in the loan program, depending on the outcome of a I-year study ofthe nature and
significance of mercury methylation processes in the reservoir sediments.




                                                   - 66 -

Reasons for Project Classification

The proposed project's primary objectives are environmental restoration, specifically the cleanup of
mercury contamination in the waters and soils of the Nura River basin, as a necessary step in assuring
safe water supply and agriculture for humans and a clean environment for natural habitats and
ecosystems. However, contaminated ground cleanup is a very complex process, not as predictable or as
amnenable to conventional engineering project management as other types of pollution control or
infrastructure development. This is especially true where such a large number and diversity of sites must
be addressed over an area as large as an entire river basin, and where the primary contaminant of concern
is as toxic, mobile, persistent and bioaccumulative as mercury. The need for very careful planning and
very specialized precautions and mitigating measures to prevent, minimize or respond to inadvertent
releases ofmercury compounds and associated pollutants requires conducting an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) and preparing an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The proposed cleanup
project has therefore been classified as a Category A project, because it could cause significant
environmental impacts affecting an area broader than the sites or facilities subject to remediation.

Justification for Recommended Cleanup Action and Performance Levels


The mercury cleanup will utilize a flexible approach involving a combination ofKazakh and various
World Bank or other international reference standards, in addition to risk-based cleanup levels, to
determine both what level of existing contamination of soil, groundwater, sediments or surface water
should trigger cleanup action at a specific site and what concentrations of hazardous substances can
remain in the environment in order for cleanup to be deemed complete at a specific site. Reliance on
multiple sources of standards is necessary, especially for soil cleanup, because few countries have a
complete set of soil cleanup standards capable of addressing all envisaged cleanup situations. More
importantly, given the magnitude and complexity of the proposed cleanup project, site-specific risk
assessment, which quantifies contamination sources, pathways and receptors for each mercury
contamination site in the river basin, is the most efficient and effective means of conducting the cleanup.
Similarly, a risk-based approach (possibly in combination with European Union standards) is
recommended for design of the landfill where contaminated materials will be moved for disposal.

Procedures Used to Prepare the Report

The CWR procured the services of a team of international and domestic environmental consultants to
prepare the EIA. It should be emphasized that the EIA consultant team is independent of the project
proponents - CWR and World Bank - as well as other project participants such as the feasibility study
consultants. The team includes a project manager with extensive international experience in both EIA
and contaminated site cleanup, as well as experts in public consultation, hydrogeology, geochemistry,
geotechnical engineering, chemical engineering, biology, ecology and mercury cleanup. The team visited
the project vicinity twice. During the first visit, the team met with the World Bank, CWR project
implementation office and social impact assessment consultant in Astana and with the Nura-Ishim Water
Basin Authority, Karaganda Region Akimat and Regional Department of Ecology in Karaganda; held
initial public hearings in Karaganda and Temirtau cities; visited the contamination sites at AO Karbid
and along the Nura River; and gathered and reviewed all available background documentation. The
second visit focused on coordinating preparation of the EIA with the Feasibility Study; conducting the
second set of public hearing in Karaganda cities; and obtaining and responding to World Bank and CWR
comments on the Draft EIA.




                                                     - 67 -

Environmental Baseline Conditions

Several studies ofmercury contamnination in the Nura River basin have been conducted over the past
10-15 years. In general, mercury-contaminated soils and sediments have been discovered in the
following high priority sites in the Nura River basin:

          The main mercury contamnination sources in the Temirtau area, including the AO Karbid factory
site (five buildings, main sewer line from production areas to wastewater treatment plant (WWTP),
WWTP site, banks of main drain from WWTP to Nura), the Zhaur Swamp, and the old ash lagoon at the
power plant;
*        The river bed and river banks for 25 km below the Samarkand reservoir, including the
backwaters of the river and oxbow lakes on the floodplains;
*        Floodplains in the same 25 km river stretch, including an estimated 3% of whose topsoil (5.8
km2) is considered hazardous;

There are other heavy metals and organic pollutants found in the Nura River basin, but the mercury
contamination is the most significant obstacle to assuring safe, reliable and affordable drinking water
supply to residents of the basin. There are also other man-made and natural sources ofthe mercury, but
the sources listed above are the primary sources.


Alternatives Considered

The ETA identifies and evaluates several alternatives to the proposed project, including the no action
alternative; alternative ways of providing clean drinking water to the region; several cleanup technology
alternatives, including different combinations of technologies and locations of their application;
alternative off-site storage/disposal locations; and some implementation program alternatives. Despite
the risks involved with a hazardous waste site cleanup of this magnitude, the benefits for public health
and environment, especially by enabling the Nura River to serve as a future source ofwater supply to the
region, outweigh the risks. Other sources of water supply in this dry region have been evaluated and
found to cost more to develop and sustain than cleaning up the Nura River.

Different technologies, and different combinations oftechnologies and locations of their application (i.e.,
in-situ, on-site and off-site) may be appropriate for different contamination situations in the river basin.
It is unlikely that a single solution will be found that addresses every situation. Therefore, further study
of the appropriateness ofspecific cleanup technologies to specific contamination sites should be
conducted during remedial design for each site or group of sites. (This process is already underway for
the cleanup of the AO Karbide site and the Old Ash Fill.) In addition, water and land use restrictions
should be imposed in appropriate areas ofthe basin to minimize risks to public health before, during and
after remediation.

Likewise, alternative locations and designs are evaluated for a centralized landfill facility for treating and
disposing the removed contaminated materials. The feasibility study provided preliminary evaluation of
several sites, and then the EIA provided more in-depth evaluation ofthree alternative sites, including the
Opan Landfill, KAR-GRES Ash Fill, and Zhaur Swamp:

         Opan Landfill is a bounded local depression located far from the Nura River Basin cleanup
areas. Hydrogeologically the floor is formed by dense neogenic clays. Disposal of mercury soils here
will not influence contamination ofsubsurface waters of the Nura River valley and surface waters of



                                                     - 68 -

Samarkand Reservoir and, owing to favorable landscape conditions, there will not be contamination of
air. The Territorial Head Office "Centerkaznedra" has approved this site for waste disposal.


         Kar-Gres Ash Fill presents risks to human health and environment from: (1) dust generation,
due to the high elevation of the site, and transport and deposition by prevailing winds to areas of
population and employment north and east of the fill; and (2) leakage of contaminated leachate through
the dikes into the adjacent interconnected system of ponds, wetlands and shallow ground waters that are
part ofthe broader Nura River floodplain or drainage area.


         Zhaur Swamp suitability relative to Kazakh and intemational standards for landfill location and
design would need to be better established with flood mapping and soil permeability testing. If the
swamp were to be used as a landfill, then additional flood protection should be provided. There have
been reports of multiple floods around the swamp and existence of a more porous stratum serving as an
aquifer or conduit to the river and underlying a portion of the swamp and separated from it by a relatively
thin layer ofsub-clay soils.

For these reasons, the environmental consultant believes the Opan site to be superior to the Kar-Gres Ash
Fill and Zhaur Swamp sites as a location for disposing mercury wastes from cleanup ofthe Nura River
basin. Some additional information is needed, however, to develop the least impacting design and
operation of the proposed landfill, as described below. In addition, it is strongly recommended that the
landfill be subjected to the Kazakhstan permitting process (OVOS) and that additional public input be
sought during that process on the design, operation, closure and post-closure of the landfill. Topics of
special importance include site security, waste acceptance criteria, waste unloading and placement, dust
and vapor control, erosion and runoff control, contingency planning and emergency response, inspections
and monitoring, personnel training, citizen communications and citizen oversight committee.

 Implementation program alternatives being considered include: (i) breaking the cleanup program into
 more manageable groupings of similar sites; (ii) combining the remedial design contracts with the
 remedial action oversight contracts for each group of sites; (iii) packaging any necessary additional
 sampling and analysis and treatability studies with the remedial design and remedial action for each
 group of sites to expedite cleanup wherever possible; and, (iv) providing independent contractors for
program-wide oversight of environmental assessment and monitoring, health and safety assurance, and
 public consultation.




                                                    - 69 -

Predicted lImpacts of the Chosen ARternative

No single alternative will be selected for cleanup ofmercury contamination in the entire Nura River
basin. Rather, the chosen strategy utilizes cleanup approaches tailored to site-specific conditions of each
contamination area, including type ofenvironment (buildings, swamp, river bed, river banks, floodplain,
etc.), nearby population and land use, type of contaminated media (surface water, ground water, type of
soil, etc.), size ofsite and volume of contaminated material, concentration ofmercury, presence and
concentrations of other contaminants, distance from disposal areas, etc. Some of these site-specific
cleanup decisions will be made during the remedial design and remedial action stage, based on further
sampling and analysis, treatability studies, etc. (This process is already underway for the Temirtau area
source sites, such as the AO Karbide site, Zhaur Swamp site and Old Ash Fill site.) Certain unit
processes, however, will be common to many ofthe site-specific cleanup approaches and their
environmental impacts can be predicted. Most cleanup operations will involve excavation and removal of
mercury-contaminated sediments, soil or building materials. The biggest risks of such operations are
inadvertent increases in mercury releases to the environment, especially air, soil and surface water, of
mercury that had been to some extent chemically or physically contained. Releases to the air are
particularly problematic since mercury readily vaporizes, can be suspended in the air for long periods,
transported long distances, and then redeposited on land or surface water during rain or snow, thus
starting the cycle over again. Releases to surface water can occur through the stirring up of river bed
sediments and river bank soils and through erosion of removed or residual contaminated soils from river
banks and floodplains. All of these removal-related impacts will be short-term (during the cleanup
period), very minor and avoidable or reducable by implementing the mitigation measures described in the
Environmental Management Plan, or EMP (see below).

As mentioned, however, the cleanup design process is already underway for the Zhaur Swamp site where
one option for cleanup would involve isolating the contaminated materials in place using a cover, bermns
and cut-off walls, rather than excavating and transporting them to an off-site landfill. This option may be
acceptable environmentally only if it could be demonstrated that the isolated area would not be subject to
flooding by the Nura River and that there is no risk of breakthrough of contamination below the swamp
to a subsurface layer serving as an aquifer or route for transport ofcontamination to the river. The data
available are conflicting with regard to both concerns. The flooding issue may be resolved by some
combination of increasing the capacity ofthe Samarkand dam and reservoir, enlarging or moving the
channel of the Nura River near the swamp, and encircling the swamp with a flood barrier. However,
even if the possibility of flooding or subsurface transport to the river were relatively small, the
consequences of such events could be catastrophic for public health and the environment, given the
volume, mobiltiy, persistence and toxicity of mercury. For this reason, it is important to look very
long-term. For example, flooding ofthe swamp may occur every 10 years or only once in 100 years.
Either way, the consequences are unacceptable and therefore it is recommended that the contaminated
materials in the Zhaur Swamp be excavated and transported to an alternative landfill location.

Another exception to the remove and transport approach is the option selected by the Feasibility Study
for cleanup ofthe river bed itself. The proposed plan involves excavating a new river channel in clean
soils so that the river water would not be in direct contact with contaminated materials at active cleanup
sites in the existing channel. After cleanup, the river would be redirected to its current channel. Three
alternative versions of this approach are possible, including using an ancient channel that is now dry;
digging a new channel the full length of the the river where the cleanup sites will be; and digging the new
channel in short sections only around individual cleanup sites and using them only during the cleanup of
the respective sites. The last alternative is preferable from an environmental perspective, because it
allows minimization ofthe length and time of river to be redirected at any one time. Also, it is likely that


                                                     - 70 -

 flooding in the past few decades has reached the ancient river channel and left some mercury
 contamination there, while there is more flexibility to locate new channel sections in clean soils. In
 general, many impacts of this approach would be similar to those of excavating and transporting
 contaminated materials from upland areas, as discussed elsewhere in this sunmmary. In addition,
however, redirecting the river channel would adversely impact the natural ecosystem and biota of the
existing channel for the short- to mid-term. Redirecting the river in short sections for short time periods
will minimize these impacts and maximize the ability of the ecosystem and biota of clean upstream
sections to recover and repopulate downstream sections. The net ecological effect on the existing
channel of cleaning up the mercury contamination is expected to be positive.

Additional impacts ofthe excavate and transport approach are possible from the transport of
contaminated materials; these include the possibility of mercury-contaminated dust blown from transport
trucks as well as the more typical impacts of truck traffic such as noise, vibration and air emissions of
hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide from truck exhaust. Again, all of these impacts will
be short-term (during the cleanup period), very minor and avoidable or reducable using the mitigation
measures in the EMP.

Land disposal will be used to manage the removed mercury-contaminated materials. Unless properly
located, designed and operated for the specific wastes being deposited, landfills pose a risk of
wind-blown mercury-laden dust, mercury methylation and release ofmercury vapors, formation of
mercury-containing leachate entering ground water, and erosion and transport of mercury-containing
materials through runoff to surface waters. Ofthe three alternative landfill sites evaluated by the EIA, the
most suitable site, Opan Landfill, may involve the longest average transport distance from the waste
excavation areas. However, any additional impacts from the increased number or length of truck trips
needed to transport contaminated materials to the landfill location would be very minor, short-term
(during the cleanup period), and avoidable or reduceable using the mitigation measures in the EMP.
These transport impacts pose small,incremental risks as compared with the potential catastrophic
consequences of a flood of the Zhaur Swamp or of breakthrough of contamination in the dikes
surrounding the Kar-Gres Ash Fill.

In summary, once in the environment, mercury is of great concern as it is mobile, persistent,
bioaccumulative, bioconcentrating, and acutely toxic in some forms. It is these same properties that
require the proposed project to be implemented in the first place. Therefore, it is important that the
selected cleanup approaches be tailored to be as technically effective as possible at individual
contamination sites in the river basin, while being sufficiently economical to allow most ofthe
significant contamination areas to be cleaned up. In addition, though, each site cleanup should be
designed and carried out with adequate mitigating measures and emergency response procedures to avoid
inadvertent short-term releases to other environmental media, and hence to remediation workers, nearby
residents and sensitive species, habitats and ecosystems. It is believed that all of these impacts can be
avoided or mitigated to a large extent through implementation of the EMP (see below) which includes
physical and institutional measures to prevent, minimize, monitor, contain or otherwise respond to
releases during and after remediation.

The EIA also assesses the potential environmental impacts ofeconomic and population growth induced
by increased water supply resulting from the proposed project. Such impacts are very difficult to predict
at this time but will probably be minimal. Residents and agriculture are already using contaminated
water, so the project will be supplying more clean water as a proportion of the total water supply. In
addition, parallel programs to repair leakages in the water supply networks of the region's cities will
improve water supply efficiency and reduce the need to increase abstraction from the Nura River.
Further, it is unclear that additional water supply by itself will be sufficient to stimulate economic growth


                                                    - 71 -

 in the region; a wider range of environmentally sustainable  development measures will likely be needed.
 A separate water resources planning study to be conducted    using British DFID funding will address
 water supply needs and recommend rational water allocation      among the cities, industries, agriculture and
 wetlands in the region.

 Summary of the Environmental Management Plan

 The EMP provides a thorough presentation on mitigation      measures applicable to the stages ofmercury
 contamination cleanup likely to be recommended in     the final Feasibility Study. These include:

 *        Site management and institutional controls - limiting access   to cleanup sites and restricting land
and water uses where appropriate

 *        Health and safety protection for cleanup workers and nearby residents    - medical monitoring,
airborne mercury monitoring, personnel training, use ofpersonal     protective equipment, decontamination
ofequipment, communications

*         Contingency planning and emergency response - on-site emergency response,        community
emergency response, incident reporting, practicing responses,    first aid procedures and equipment,
training, spill control and countermeasure plan

*         Mitigation measures for removing wastes from buildings -     recommended tools and techniques,
including vacuum technology and cleanup kits, specialized for mercury       removal

*         Soil removal mitigation measures - timing of operations   to avoid wet weather, flooding and high
winds; covering of excavation areas and stockpiled soils   to prevent mercury vapor and dust emissions
and rain erosion, underlining of soil stockpiles to prevent leaching to  clean soil and groundwater,
installation of berms and ditches to control surface water run-on   and run-off

*        Soil transport mitigation measures - waste characterization   and segregation, labeling and
manifesting of trucks, safe loading and unloading, wetting   wastes and covering trucks with canopies to
prevent dust generation, emergency response, truck decontamination,       truck maintenance

*        Landfill mitigation measures - separate landfill cells for wastes  with high moisture and/or high
levels oforganic mercury compounds, liners equivalent to European       Union (EU) or other international
standards; further evaluation of the need for leachate and gas collection   and treatment; cover meeting EU
or other international standards, waste analysis and acceptance   procedures, facility inspection plan,
contingency and emergency response plan, personnel training      plan, environmental monitoring plan, and
closure and post-closure plan.

The EMP also summarizes a series of environmental monitoring       programs, aimed at measuring
contamination in air, soil, surface water, sediments, ground  water, drinking water, fish, crops, livestock,
and humans before, during and after cleanup. Monitoring      parameters, locations, frequencies and
methods are provided for each cleanup program activity.

A program of capacity building is proposed, including organizational     development, staffing, training and
equipment procurement relating to health and safety, contingency     planning and emergency response,
environmental mitigation and monitoring, and social assessment     and public consultation.

Institutional arrangements, schedules and costs for implementing    the mitigation, monitoring and capacity


                                                    - 72 -

building measures are also provided. Implementation will be accomplished primarily through a project
management structure led by CWR/BVO and supported by staff of relevant government agencies
seconded to the project and domestic and international consultants.

Disclosure and Consultations with Affected Groups and Local NGOs

Disclosure of the EIA was made by providing copies of the Executive Summary of the Draft Final ElA in
Russian to attendees of the final public hearing in Karaganda; making the Executive Summary of the
Draft Final EIA available to the public through EcoCenter of Karaganda; providing copies of all versions
ofthe EIA in Russian to the Committee for Water Resources; and making the English version ofthe EIA
available through the World Bank's Info Shoppe.

A public consultation process has been implemented whereby a local coordinator was hired; local NGOs
and government officials were brought into the planning process; initial public meetings were held in
early February 2002 in two locations, Karaganda and Temirtau cities;a final public meeting was held in
late April 2002 on the Draft EIA; and mechanisms were developed to facilitate ongoing public
consultation on the project through the implementation phase. A large number of local government
officials, academics, students and NGO representatives attended the initial public meetings. The project
and EIA process were described; comments were solicited on what should be considered in the scope of
the EIA and what key issues the EIA should focus on. There was excellent participation and discussion.
The major comments related to what agencies are responsible for the project; what the decision-making
process is; how the project will be paid for; what areas are contaminated and to what degree; what kinds
oftesting has been done and is planned; and what cleanup approaches and technologies are being
proposed and what their respective environmental impacts are likely to be. Lists of attendees and
summaries of their questions and concerns have been prepared (see Appendix C, Record of Public
Meetings) and have been addressed in the ETA. Section 7 of the EIA provides a summary of the EIA
responses to public comments.

Compliance with World bank safeguard policies

This EIA has been prepared and submitted in compliance with all applicable World Bank Safeguard
Policies relating to EIAs. The overall EIA complies with the Envrionmental Assessement safeguard
policy (OP4.01). EIA Sections 3.1.7-9 and 4.3.2 address compliance with the Natural Habitats safeguard
policy (OP4.04). The Dam Safety safeguard policy (OP4.37) is addressed in a separate report (see
Appendix B, References). The International Waterways safeguard policy (OP7.50) will be addressed
separately through a letter from the Government of Kazakhstan to the Government of Russia. The
Cultural Property safeguard policy (OPN 11.03) will be addressed during the detailed design stage
through the development of a "chance find" protocol that can be utilized during project implementation.
The Pest Management (OP4.09), Forestry (OP4.36), Indigenous Peoples (0D4.20), Involuntary
Resettlement (OD4.30), and Child and Forced Labor (Policy Statement) safeguard policies are not
applicable to the proposed project.

Environment-Related Loan Conditionalities and Covenants

Environmental loan conditionalities and covenants will relate to the implementation of recommnended
mitigation, monitoring and capacity building measures, as described above.




                                                   - 73 -

             Additional Annex 12: Dam Safety Analysis - Executive Summary
                      KAZAKHSTAN: NURA RIVER CLEANUP PROJECT

POSCH& PARTNERS                                                          REPUBLICOFKAZAKHSTAN
INNSBRUCK                                                                       DAMSAFETYSTUDY
AUSTRIA                                                                               FINAL REPORT

I       General
1.XI    Introduction
This report summarises the findings and analyses of 4 missions carried out between November 2000 and
June 2001 for the assessment of the stability of the Intumak and Vecheslav dams. Regarding Vecheslav
dam please refer to Volume 2.

The objectives of this study are to:
        Assess the stability of the dam in the present incomplete condition
        Verify the stability of the dam if completed by original design and
        Propose a preliminary layout of elements which need to be modified to comply with intemational
standards

The Intumak dam is a partly completed dam on the Nura river, being located in Karaganda Oblast about
60 km to the west of Karaganda city. The site can be reached by asphalt road following the road
Karaganda - Temirau and then branching offtowards Kievka village and is located 6 km upstream ofthe
village Intumak. The distance by road from Karaganda city is 105 km.

The landscape at the dam site is typical Kazakh steppe with flat topography and a soft depression
creating the Nura river bed.

This report is based on the physical site investigations of the Austrian Consultants, extensive
discussions with RGP Karaganda Water Supply Department and the Nura Sarysu River Basin Authority,
the input from experts of the former Design Institute the Central Kazakh Institute for Water Supply
Planning (Zentrkazkgiprovodchos) of Karaganda and the available design documentation from 1984 and
1990.

We herewith want to extend our appreciation to above institutions and individual experts for the good
co-operation, their assistance and the valuable inputs provided.

11.2   General description of dam facilities
The dam was designed and constructed for irrigation purposes. Consequently it did not need to retain
permanently water throughout the year and secondly a certain filtration rate (permeability) through the
dam and its foundation was acceptable. But the current understanding is that the dam - if completed -
should be used as a per annual water storage for balancing the river flow and to release a constant
discharge into the downstream Nura bed to be ultimately used for the water supply ofthe national
capital Astana. This new purpose requires more rigid design criteria.

The Intumak dam consists of the following elements:
       a 1,840 m long and 22.6 m high main embankment dam (earth), at the orographically right hand
bank of the river bed
       a 17 meter wide bottom outlet with a capacity of 76 m3/s
       another 90 m long section of embankment dam



                                                   -74-

*       a 90 m wide spillway, with a capacity of 3,000 m3/s and
*       a 130 m long embankment dam at the left hand bank of the valley.

In addition to above dam elements, the following measures are needed in the reservoir area:
*       a 5.5 km long Amangeldi village protection dam (earth) with a pumping station to return
filtration water back to the reservoir
*       a 1.5 km long embankment dam (earth) for Volkovskoe village and
*       the protection of the Pavlodar - Shimkent oil pipeline against uplift.

1.3     Dam characteristics
The characteristic figures of Intumak dam reservoir based on the 1990 design are as follows:

Main dam facilities:
Crest length of main embankment dam                                                    1840 m
Crest width                                                                            10.0 m
Dam type                               earth fill dam with upstream clay blanket or clay core
Dam foundation                                                               sand, partly rock
Max. dam height                                                                        22.6 m
Dam volume                                                              approx. 2.2 Mill. m3
Bottom outlet capacity                                                                 76 m3/s
Spillway width                                                         5 sections, each 16 m
Spillway type                                                  weir crest with movable gates
Type of spillway gates                                                          segment gates
Spillway capacity                                                                    3000 m3/s

Amangeldi and Volkovskoej villages protection dams:
Type                                                                     earth fill dam (sand)
Crest length (5.5 and 1.5 kIn)                                                         7.0 km
Crest width                                                                              4.0 m
Dam height                                                                           up to 5m

Reservoir:
Volume at top water level                                                         250 Mill. m3
Usable volume                                                                     240 Mill. rn3
Maximum water depth                                                                    17.3 m
Average water depth                                                                      8.9 m
Reservoir Area under TWL                                                              5220 ha
Area of low water (< 2 meter)                                                         1100 ha
Reservoir length                                                               approx. 20 km
Life period regarding siltation                                                      500 years

Hydrological data:
Catchment area                                                                      31000 km2
Average annual inflow                               previously 260 latest data: 398 Mio. m3/a
Calculated flow at 75% reliability                                 latest data: 186 Mio. m3/a
Annual constant outflow (latest calculation)                                          8.0 m3/s
Flood flow at 0.1% probability (over spillway)                                      3000 mn3/s

Levels:
Top Water Level (TWL), design water level                                               456.4


                                                   - 75 -

Maximum permissible water level (at max. discharge)                                    458.9
Dead volume level                                                                       447.0
Dam crest elevation                                                                    460.7

1.4     HiAstory
In 1975 a preliminary study and design was carried out to assess the viability of building an irrigation
dam on the Nura river near Intumak. The estimated costs were 16 mio. Rubel.

In 1982 the idea become another push when the decision was taken on Oblast level to build the dam. At
that time no detailed design and cost estimate was available, so the design was done in parallel to
construction.

The dam was constructed between 1982 and 1984. Funds came from the Ministry of Water Resources
and Irrigation under the draught prevention program. Since this program ended in 1984, works had to be
stopped, despite the fact that the dam was incomplete.

The main dam across the Nura river had been completed, also the bottom outlet structure with the
exception of its upper part and the lifting devices. The spillway channel had only been excavated, not
concreted and the steel gates had not been installed. The embankment dam on the left side of the river
bed was not started. The Amangeldi village protection dam was done but the protection layers and clay
layers were incomplete.

The test filling of the reservoir was ordered in 1984. According to the engineers the water level reached
elevation 455 m asl., corresponding to 190 mio.     3
                                                  m  storage volume. It then had to be lowered because
the oil pipeline Pavlodar - Shimkent which crosses the reservoir area, had not been sufficiently protected
against uplift before, and also the protection dam for the Amangeldi village did not withstand the water
pressure.

In 1989 the ownership of the dam was transferred to the State Organisation Intumak Repair and
Construction Department. The ownership was later changed again and presently the owner ofthe dam is
the RGP Karaganda Water Supply Department.

In 1990 a revised design was carried out for the completion ofthe dam, with an increased design water
level which levels are used in this study.

In the mid 1990-ies the pipeline company reported to the Nura Sarysu River Basin Authority that the oil
pipeline had now been sufficiently protected and the reservoir could be filled.

1.5     ]nsttutions involved
The following organisations and institutions were / are directly involved in the project:
*       Oblast Akimat of Karaganda
*       RGP Karaganda Water Supply Department
*       Nura-Sarysu River Basin Authority
        Trunk Oil Pipelines of Kazakhstan and Central Asia
        ZENTRAKASGIPROVODCHOS (Central Kazakhstan Institute for Water Supply Design,
abbreviated "Design Institute

2       Geology
The Intumak dam is a "floating" dam. The embankment dam was constructed on natural alluvial soils in
the valley floor, which consist of pervious interbeds ofsands and gravel which rest on less permeable


                                                   - 76 -

strata clay containing lenses of silty clay. Weathered rock crops out on both sides of the dam.

By international standards, a detailed geological map of the excavated and approved foundation bed
needs to be prepared before placement of the dam material. Such an information is not available. Only
meagre geological and soil engineering data is available for evaluation of the ground conditions below
the dam. The only available geological cross section parallel to the dam access shows 25 boreholes with
lengths from 5to 25 meters in a spacing of 45 to 100 m.

The foundation of the spillway crest and the bottom outlet consists of faintly weathered, hard and
closely jointed pyroclastic rock. No major problems are anticipated for the foundation of theses
structures and for the required additional excavation for the spillway channel.

The available hydrogeological information of the sediment layers beneath the dam may be sufficient for
a seasonally filled flood control structure, but are insufficient for a floating clay core earthfill dam for
permanent impoundment. Improvements are required to reduce the seepage underneath the dam. At the
dam side a deposit of water filled sand and gravel overlies the bedrock on both sides of the dam, and a
basal clay layer in the centre section of the dam.

Only general estimates can be given ofthe amount of underflow and seepage below the dam, but it may
reach close to the design criteria. The construction of a cutoff wall, possibly down to the impermeable
clay layer is strongly recommended, to improve the situation.

It maybe also necessary to do some grouting in the closely jointed rock to reduce the infiltration losses
and underneath passage of water below the proposed spillway. This however also depends on the design
of the spillway and needs to be decided then.

3       Hydrology
The Intumak dam is situated on the Nura river at river km 570. The catchment area is 31000km2. The
average annual precipitation in the catchment area is 215mm, the evaporation 735mm. A significant part
of the precipitation occurs in form of snow and consequently about 80% ofthe annual runoff occurs
within 2 months, during the spring flood period, that is from March to May.

3.1     Annual discharge
Hydrological observations on the middle section of the Nura river started in 1916 at the station
Romanovskoe. Stations are equipped with staffs and read manually. It is reported that the major stations
are read twice daily and even more frequently during the flood season. Since the river bed cross sections
are not stabilised, also the flow velocities are measured frequently. But most of the stations have data
gaps.

Data from the stations Volkosvkoe and the Nura town Tobolsk were correlated to arrive at averaged data
for the calculation of the natural discharges into the Intumak reservoir for the period 1892 to 1960. In
the 1990-ies the Institutes Kazgiprovodkhoz of Almaty and Centrekazgiprovodkhoz Karaganda
calculated the discharges for the period 1935 to 1984 by using restored natural discharges. The period
till 1984 is characterised by equal number of high and low water cycles. Only after 1984 the repeating
pattern of the rivers of the central Kazakhstan has been weak.

The average monthly inflow into Intumak reservoir, including the wastewaters from Karaganda and
Temirtau can be seen from the following table:




                                                   -77 -

                                   Months                                             Annual

              I   II   III IV  V   VI  VII Vil   IX  X   Xi  X     Natural      Sewage    and Losses   Total

 Average      8   8    8   234 52  19   14  13  13   13   8   8      342           96        -40        398

 P=50%        8   8    8   170 45  16  12   11  10   10  10   9      255           96        -34        317

 P=75%        8   8    9   49  41  15   13  9    9   9   88          111           96        -21        186


3.2      Maximum flood discharges
The flood flow with a probability of 0.1% i.e. a probability of I in 1000 years has been determined at
3,000 m3/s. The calculation does not include the retention effect ofthe upstream reservoirs of Samarkant
and Sherubainura. This was done since the Regulations for Operating Water Reservoirs in the Central
Kazakhstan provide for a maximum filling of the reservoirs at the beginning ofthe spring flood, with
subsequent forced emptying. The reason for this regulation is that firstly the dam operators feel
uncertain and generally make sure that they do not loose too much water and secondly the unreliable
forecast.

3.3     Water quality and ecological aspects
The inflow into the Intumak reservoir is polluted by the Karaganda - Temirtau industrial wastewaters,
by which the mineralisation of the water is doubled to about 400 mg/l in spring and to a maximum of
1,200 mg/l in winter. However, as a result of the collapsed industry, the decrease in population and the
adoption ofwater saving technologies, the wastewater discharges reduced to half, compared to 1990.

The permissible concentrations for oil products, biological oxygen demand, nitrates and heavy metals
are exeeded. But in general the quality of the Nura water has improved in the recent years. Intumak
reservoir could possibly function as a pollutant trap, but this has not been studied.

Attention should be paid also to the Korgalzhy nature reserve downstream the Nura river. This is an
intemationally recognised omithological reserve. A sufficient inflow into the reserve is important to
maintain the water level in the lake. According to the Institute Kazgiprovodkhoz Almaty, the required
inflow is 265 mio. m3/year. Other institutes estimate higher volumes. Due to the reduced water
abstractions during the last years, the level of the lake has stayed just a little below the multi-annual
average. The effect ofthe Intumak reservoir on the flow pattern should be carefully studied.

4       embasnkment dams
4.11    Main DOam
Description and Original Design
Since the original purpose ofthe dam was for irrigation, a seepage rate ofup to 4.5 m3/s has been
accepted as design criteria. The cohesive soils ofthe bottom land and oxbow were not suitable for the
dam foundation, so the top soils had to be removed in the area ofthe dam foundation to a depth of I m
and in the area ofthe main river bed and oxbow to 6 m. The interconnection of the dam with the rock
foundation on the left bank was achieved with a concrete beam embedded into the rock and connected
with the clay core and the clay shield at the bottom land area of the oxbow.

Locally available fill material (mainly sands with little gravel) had been used f,r the construction ofthe
embankment dam. It was placed in layers of 30 to 40 cm and compacted by,sfieep food and vibrating
rollers. The dam was mainly built during 2 winter seasons by working aro/ind the clock. The rip rap was
placed during the warm period and with a lag ofnot more than 3 meteys. The construction was done by
2 different contractors and allegedly tests results and quality controls were carried out, but no records
are anymore available.



                                                    -78-

On the upstream dam surface and on top of the dam body clay and silty clay or loam material was placed
in an additional construction phase as an inclined and less permeable dam sealing zone. The thickness of
this zone decreases from the reservoir floor to the dam crest from 3 to about I m. This sealing zone is
extended towards the reservoir floor by a horizontal sealing blanket of the same material with a length
of 15 to 45 m, depending on the water load. A protection layer and a filter layer are placed on top ofthe
sealing zone. Both dam slopes are protected by a stone rip rap.

A medium grain filter layer (gravel) and a course drainage zone (rock) were constructed at the
downstream dam toe followed by a drainage channel.

Some piezometers have been installed in the dam for monitoring and maintenance but no other devices
like seepage weirs and surveying grid, and no monitoring has been done.

Assessment
A comprehensive investigation program was carried out from March to June 2001 to assess the stability
of the main dam. A topographical survey was carried out, 7 exploration drillings done, penetration tests
made, 9 new piezometers installed, 3test pits excavated and a large number of soil laboratory analyses
was done. Also 15 old piezometers were identified and included in the monitoring program.

TopographicalSurvey
A topographical survey of the main dam, the bottom outlet and the spillway section was carried out by
using absolute elevations. A scale was drawn on the intake tower of the bottom outlet for recording of
the water level in the reservoir. Also the piezometers and other special observations were included in the
survey system. The dimensions of the main dam correspond with the design, the spot heights taken at
the Amangeldi village dam show that it is insufficient high at several locations.

PiezometerObservations
Water levels in the piezometers were observed from 24th March to 12th May 2001, covering the flood
period. The level in the reservoir increased rapidly, in the first days in average 56 cm/day and reached a
maximum elevation of 453.4 m which is 3.2 m below the top water level. Most of the piezometers show
a worryingly rapid increase of the pore water pressure.

The hydraulic gradients between the newly installed piezometers on the dam crest and the
corresponding ones at the downstream dam toe reached mostly some 2% percent, in one case 4%. Some
of the old piezometers showed even ten times higher gradients but the correct function of these old
piezometers has to be questioned.

PipingPhenomenon
During a detailed inspection of the downstream dam toe, at least 2 locations were identified where
seepage flows and piping phenomenon through the dam foundation were observed. At both locations the
dam foundation must be classified as being in "critical condition" and not stable under the existing
hydraulic gradient.

The discharge from the bottom outlet creates between the bottom outlet and chainage NK10 a very high
water level in the downstream drainage channel and also a corresponding high pore water pressure in
the dam. Because ofthis problem, a detailed inspection of this dam section regarding a piping
phenomenon was not possible.




                                                  - 79 -

PenetrationTests
Penetration tests with heavy equipment were carried out to determine the density of the dam fill
material, the clay core and the dam foundation. Surprisingly, at many places the dynamic resistance was
adequate at the upper strata ofthe dam but became rather low in the lower sections, despite the fact that
the pore water pressure did not influence the results essentially. Low densities were in particular
observed at the location of the old Nura river bed and where the piping phenomenon was observed.
There, only about 2 blow counts per 10 cm penetration were needed, whereas in good locations 40 to 50
blow counts per 10 cm were recorded.

Soil LaboratoryAnalyses
A large number of material samples were brought to Kazhydro Almaty for analysis.

The analysis of the damfoundation materialshows a great range of grain size distribution. Material near
the upper graduation curve is insufficient stable to material near the lower graduation curve, if no sand
filter is located in between. The material contains a high percentage of sand and the silty sand explored
in the dam foundation bears basically a liquefaction risk in case of high earthquake load. The maximum
earthquake load in the Intumak region is reported to be low, but the liquefaction risk should be checked
in more detail in the design stage. The silty clay or loam material explored near the old river bed
demonstrates that not all fine material has been removed and excavated before placing the dam.
Permeability tests resulted in a Kf value of 3E -5 m/s.

The dam shell andfiltermaterialshows a narrow range of explored material. The permeability tests in
the laboratory show approximately the same values like for the dam foundation material. The silty sand
found in the dam shell is again possibly prone to the same liquefaction risk under a high earthquake
load.

The grain size analysis ofthe dam sealingmaterialshows again a wide range of explored material. At
some locations it seems that the condition of the sealing blanket and must be classified as "very poor" or
"poor". The permeability tests showed Kf-values ranging from 2 E-6 to 7.8 E-5m/s. Conclusively, the
clay blanket and the clay core must be defined as permeable or semi-permeable compared to the
normally required permeability coefficient of a zoned clay core or clay blanket dam for per annual
impoundment.

Proposed Improvement and Rehabilitation Works
An improvement (rehabilitation) ofthe dam is absolutely necessary before the reservoir is filled up to
the design water level (elevation 456.4 m asl) and also to increase the safety of the dam under current
conditions. The most probable alternatives for rehabilitation of the dam are:

Alternatives I and la:steel "sheetpiling"at upstreamdam toe
This is the construction of a cutoff wall by steel sheets at the upstream dam toe, to reduce a higher
underflow and seepage through the foundation. It will reduce the hydraulic gradient and the risk of
piping phenomenon. The interface between the steel sheets, the clay blanket and the protection layer
needs to be done very carefully. However, this solution requires to empty the reservoir for construction
works and it does not decrease the permeability of the clay blanket. The depth of the wall depends on
the actual foundation conditions and the water load.

Alternatives2 and2a: "slurrycutoffwall" at upstreamdam toe
This alternative is similar to alternatives 1and Ia, but uses a slurry cutoff wall instead ofsheet piling
which by preliminary cost estimates cheaper.



                                                   -80 -

Alternatives 3 and 3a: "centralslurryor concretecutoff wall"
This means the construction of a slurry or concrete cutoff wall through the crest of the dam. The
advantage is that this solution also compensates any imperfections of the clay blanket and improves the
permeability of the dam. The construction works can be done without emptying the reservoir.


Alternative4 and 4a:upstreamslurrycutoff wallorsteel sheetpilingand concretefacing
This alternative combines alternatives 1 or 2 with the placing of concrete slabs on the upstream face of
the dam (similar to Vecheslav dam). This alternative has the advantage that it compensates
imperfections of the clay blanket but the disadvantage that the reservoir needs to be emptied for
execution of works.

Recommendation
The cost comparison shows that obviously alternatives 1and 2 are cheaper than the others. But,
alternatives 1and 2 are not recommended from the technical point of view, if the reservoir will be used
for permanent storage.

Alternative 3 is clearly cheaper than alternative 4. So alternative 3 is recommended for implementation.
The cost have been determined at 1.22 mio. USD.

4.2     Village Protection Dams
Amangeldi village protection dam
A 5.5 km long embankment dam has been designed and constructed for the protection ofthe villages
Aktoebe and Shanalatap. The dam has a crest width of 4.0 m and a height of up to 5 m.

About 2/3 of the total length of the Amangeldi village dam has been inspected. Basically most ofthe
dam shell is finished but the locally designed clay sealing and protection layers have not been
constructed. It was reported that the dam was destroyed and repaired at two or tree locations during test
filling of the reservoir. It was also observed that at several locations the dam crest was not sufficiently
high for the proposed water level in the reservoir.

The dam needs to be repaired at certain sections, the crest level be raised where required and the dam be
sealed with a clay blanket and protected with rip rap.

Volkovskoe Village Protection Dam
A 1.5 km long protection dam of earth for protection of the village Volkovskoe has been designed but
not constructed. The dam is required and needs to be constructed.

The construction and repair of the Amangeldi and Volkovskoe protection dams is estimated to cost 1.07
mio. USD.

The Oil Pipeline Pavlodar - Shimkent
Also the oil pipeline from Pavlodar to Shimkent which crosses the reservoir area, and a valve station has
been inspected. The relevant 3 km long section has not been protected by riprap.

Conflicting information is provided about sufficient protection against uplift. This needs to be
crosschecked by a physical inspection. It may be necessary to relocate the valve station, if the reservoir
is filled to the maximum water level.


Consequently a budget of 0.06 mio. USD has been earmarked for the protection of the oil pipeline and
the possible replacement of the valve station.


                                                    -81 -

5       Spillway
D[escription and Original IDesign
The spillway which has been excavated only, consists of an inlet canal, the spillway and an outlet canal.
The inlet canal is 160 m long and will be a concrete structure based on rock.

The spillway itself is proposed to consist of 5sections with a clear opening of 16 m and each section is
to be equipped with 6.4 m high segment gates. The steel gates have actually been manufactured,
supplied and stored at Karaganda. In the meantime they have been cut into pieces and are consequently
of no further use.

The outlet canal has a length of 1.06 km and has been designed on the basis of a hydraulic model made
at Kazgiprovodkhoz Almaty.

Assessment
The capacity of the spillway is originally designed for 3000 m3/s, corresponding to a 1000 year flood.
Generally this return period is also applied internationally for the design of spillways. But recently the
trend goes towards increasing the safety which means a design for higher floods, like the 1in 10.000
years, or even for the probable maximum flood (PMF). Generally, this it is a compromise between
economical possibilities and maximum safety. Since the spillways of the two reservoirs upstream and
the one downstream of Intumak are designed also for 1000 year flood, this criteria should be applied.

The freeboard of a dam is the difference in elevation between crest level of the dam minus the maximum
water level. The latter is determined under consideration ofice set-up, wind set-up, wave up-rush and
safety height. Per original design the freeboard is 1.8 m based on a wind velocity of 27 m/s. By
international recommendations the wind velocity is 35 m/s, corresponding to a probability of 5%. This
then leads to a required minimum freeboard of 2.0m.

International criteria also require the application of the "n-I-rule" for gated spillways (moveable gates).
This means that the design flood (3000m3/s) must be able to pass, even if one of the gates is closed
(blocked). In this case the spillway would be only capable of discharging 2500 m3/s, which is
insufficient.

The horizontal section of the spillway canal directly behind the gates is sufficient wide and deep, but the
plunge pool seems to be too short and critical flow will occur in this section. The downstream section of
the spillway canal leading back to the original river bad is too small and needs to be redesigned on the
basis of a hydraulic model.

Extent ofthe Reservoir
A contour map has been obtained from the reservoir area. However, the map does not reach up to the
beginning of the reservoir and also mentions that hydrogeological investigations were only done up to
the top water level (456.4 m asl.) but not up to the maximum water level (458.9 m asl.). The missing
information would need to be obtained in the next project stage.

Proposed Rehabilitation
Generally two types of spillway are applicable, one with a fix weir or one with a gated weir. The fix
weir solution has the advantage of being the safest solution, does practically not require maintenance
nor power supply and no operation errors can happen. The disadvantages are that the water level can not
be regulated and the required length of the weir crest is long.



                                                    -82-

The weir crest for the fixed weir would have to be 350 m long to be able to discharge the design flow on
the basis of the defined maximum water level. The weir could also be combined with other safety
devices like an erodable dam or fuse gates made of concrete which give way when the incoming flood
exceeds the 3000 m3/s.

In case a gated weir is constructed, it shall be designed to comply with the "n-I-rule" which means, the
capacity has to be increased compared to the original design. Segment gates are preferably built in
approx. square format, so 6 gates are proposed with a clear width of 13 m each and a height of about 8
m.

What type of spillway shall finally be selected, depends on the final purpose of the reservoir and needs
to be decided in the final design stage.

As mentioned before, the spillway canal downstream the gates needs to be enlarged on the basis of a
hydraulic model

The cost for construction of a gated spillway are estimated at 9.57 mio. USD. The cost for a fix weir
solution are estimated to be 2 to 3 mio. USD less.

Theoretically the steel gates installed at the Samarskaya dam, downstream of Intumak which is not in
use any more, could be dismantled, refurbished and installed at the Intumak dam. But this would have to
be investigated carefully to see if any cost savings would be possible.

6       Bottom Outlet
Description and Original Design
The bottom outlet consists of the intake tower, then two galleries (tunnels) running through the dam and
a valve chamber with an outlet building at the downstream end. 4 pipes of DN 1400 mm run through the
galleries which start at the inlet gates and end at the outlet valves. The inlet tower has 4 individual
rectangular chambers with slots in the side walls to accommodate stop logs, thrash rack and steel gates.
No trash rack nor stop logs are installed, presumably also no steel gates. The galleries are currently
filled with water closely up to the culvert level and are not accessible.

A pre-cast concrete frame structure forms the upper part of the inlet tower which is supposed to
accommodate a crane mounted on a travelling bridge. The brickwork between the columns has not been
done, the roof is damaged and with the exception of the travelling bridge no lifting devices are installed.


The discharge capacity of the bottom outlet has been determined to be 76 m3/s at top water level in the
reservoir. Currently only one valve is open and water discharges through this pipe.

Assessment
Capacity
Different criteria can be applied for the design of bottom outlets. These can be: the required lowering
velocity of the water level in the reservoir, or the maximum capacity of the downstream section of the
river bed, or the maximum rising velocity ofthe water level in the reservoir, or the required lowering of
the water level in the emergency of a potential dam failure, or a certain flow through the bottom outlet,
etc. The most relevant criteria for the Intumak dam is the need to lower the water level in the reservoir
within a given time period in an emergency case.

The volume of the Intumak reservoir at the top edge of the gates is approx. 300 mio. m3. The required


                                                    - 83 -

lowering ofthe water level of 75% within 10 to 20 days at full inflow during the spring flood period
results in a required bottom outlet capacity of 190 to 330 m3/s. This means that the capacity of the
bottom outlet has to be increased substantially. That can only be achieved if the pipes are removed from
the galleries and if the entire cross section of the galleries is used for the discharge of the water. Then
the capacity is about 200 m3/s.

Inspection ofgalleriesandconcretequalhty
Attempts were made to pump out the water from the galleries to enter them for inspection. Since no
suitable pump could be found, it was not possible. But a draw down of the water level of 94 cm could be
achieved with a mobile pump and the recovery ofthe water level was recorded. In this way the seepage
into the gallery could be determined to be about 2 I/s. This information is sufficient for the time being,
since the galleries will need to be fit with a concrete relining anyway and so stop the leakage at no extra
cost.

Also the concrete quality of the bottom outlet structure was tested at different spots. The results show a
wide variation, ranging form 14 to 25 N/mm 2 and in average 20 N/mm2. This confirms that the quality is
not really good but the structure can be used for its purpose.

Proposed Improvement and Rehabilitation Works
The suggestion is to remove the pipes from the galleries and to use the galleries directly for discharge.
For that purpose the surface of the galleries needs to be protected by a concrete relining. This will also
stop any leaks.

A new little intake structure shall be placed just upstream to the existing intake tower to accommodate
stop logs, trash racks and hydraulically operated steel gates.

The downstream end ofthe galleries should be designed such that they are permanently submerged and
precautions made to avoid freezing of the water in the galleries in the winter period.

A cost estimate was carried out for the proposed works and resulted in 1.32 mio. USD.

7       Dam operation and hydropower potential
7.11    Dam operation
The main purpose of the dam is anticipated to be for flow balancing, to create a more less constant
downstream flow for use ofthe water for the water supply of the national capital Astana.

A simple water balance calculation has been done, considering inflow, outflow, seepage and
evaporation, to show the varying water levels and volumes in the reservoir over the year. It shows that
the reservoir with a capacity of 250 mio. m3 is able to retain the entire flood inflow for an average
hydrological year and to produce a constant outflow of 8m3/s.

This is only a general indication and a more sophisticated storage simulation needs to be done on the
basis of long series of daily hydrological data, ifprobabilities of dam filling and overflow for different
hydrological years are needed. Furthermore, the underground filtration rate in the reservoir area is not
known.

7.2    Hydropower potential
The existing dam has the potential for energy production through a small hydropower plant. The bottom
outlet could be combined with such a plant. Based on the current assumptions ofthe dam use, the
outflow would be constant at 8 m3/s and the water level in the reservoir fluctuating from top water level


                                                    - 84-

to minimum water level over the year.

This would require that one of the four pipes in the bottom outlet is used as a penstock, moved to the
sidewall and be protected by concrete surrounding. One of the four inlets needs to be modified to serve
as the inlet for the penstock. A cone wheel pulp turbine with a runner diameter of 1 m is suggested to be
installed at the end of the penstock, located in a little power house to be constructed next to a gallery.


Based on above assumptions, the installed capacity could be 750 kW, producing in average 4.12
GWh/year (= mio. KWh/a). This would be more than sufficient energy to cover the self demand at the
dam (gates, lighting, heating etc.) and the excess energy could be fed into the public grid which is 11 km
away at Intumak village, or be used otherwise.

A first economic analysis was carried out, to show the feasibility of such investment. The payback
period is 10 years and the internal rate ofreturn (ERR) 7.9% on the basis of an energy sales price of 2
US-cents/KWh (= 3 Tenge/KWh). The installation is certainly attractive if the sales price is the typically
internationally applied 4 US-cents/KWh. Then the system reaches an IRR of 19.1% and a payback
period of 6 years.

8       Conclusions, Total Cost and recommendations
8.1     Conclusions
The main dam was found to be not in a condition to retain permanently water without being
rehabilitated. Even the present status is critical in the flood period. The most feasible rehabilitation
alternative is the construction of a slurry wall reaching from the dam crest sufficiently deep into the dam
foundation.

The Amangeldi village protection dam needs to be completed and the Volkovskoe village protection
dam constructed.


Two different types have been proposed for the construction of the spillway, the fix weir type and a weir
with movable gates. The final selection can be made once the ultimate (multi) purpose ofthe dam has
been defined. The gated weir type has been included in the cost estimate, as this is the more expensive
solution (to be on the safe side).

The bottom outlet has insufficient capacity and needs to be modified. This can be done by removing the
pipes from the galleries, relining the galleries and construction ofa new inlet with four hydraulically
operated gates.


8.2     Total Cost
The total cost for the proposed completion and rehabilitation works have been determined as follows:




                                                    - 85 -

Cost Estimate                                                  [%]         [Mio. USD]



Spillway                                                     72.2%            9.57

Bottom Outlet                                                10.0%            1.32

Main Dam Repair                                               9.2%            1.22

Repair of Protection Dams Amalgildi and Volkovskoje           8.1%            1.07

Pipe Line Crossing                                            0.5%            0.06



TOTAL                                                        100.0%          13.24



8.3    Recommended further works
Final purpose of the reservoir
The final (multi) purpose of the reservoir has influence on the layout of the dam and spillway and needs
to be defined.

Principally the reservoir could serve as:
       flow balancing reservoir (detention basin)
       flood retention reservoir (to cut flood waves only)
       hydro power station
       settling basin for pollutants and
       centre of a recreational area.

Recommended Investigations for the Reservoir
Having in mind the possible purpose of the reservoir, a detail assessment should be carried out about the
impact the reservoir has regarding environmental aspects:
       how well does it function as a pollutant trap,
       the actual inflow of mercury and other pollutants into the reservoir in dissolved and particle
form,
       the sedimentation efficiency in general,
       the outflow of pollutants through the bottom outlet and over the spillway,
       the amount ofpollutants accumulated in the reservoir till today,
       the possibly required shut-off periods ifthe tail water is used for water supply
       a conclusive statement about the impact of the reservoir on pollution accumulation and pollution
reduction and
       a quantification of the economic benefits ofthe completed dam with respect to pollution
mitigation.

On the basis of above findings, the final purpose of the dam should be defined, storage simulations be
carried out, the optimum size of the dam be defined, before moving to the detail design stage.

Regarding Embankment Dams
       The piezometers together with the reservoir level should be monitored also in future


                                                   - 86 -

        the downstream canal which creates a backflow to the dam toe should be diverted away from the
dam and then the dam section between the bottom outlet and profile NKI0 be inspected
*       survey of the Amangeldi village dam in the design stage.

Regarding Spillway
*       optimisation of the spillway considering the maximum accepted flood area (maximum water
level), the required reservoir volume, the elevation of the main dam and safety aspects.
*       Hydraulic model for proper design ofthe spillway.

Regarding Bottom Outlet
*       An inspection ofthe galleries is advisable in the detail design stage.

Others
*       The actual protection of the oil pipeline Pavlodar - Shimkent needs to be verified
*       Verify if the 4 km long section of the road Temirtau - Kievka village would be flooded at
maximum water level
*       Optimise and design the pumping station to return seepage water from the Amangeldi village
dam
*       Verify actual status of expropriation and land acquisition for the proposed reservoir area.




                                                  - 87 -

- 88 -

MAP SECTION


                                                             KAZAKH STAN
                                      NURA RIVER CLEAN-UP PROJECT

              aASTANA                             * NATIONAL CAPITAL
              *      PROJECTCITIES                o  REGION CAPITALS

                     ROADS                        0  SELECIEDCITIES                                         Theb-uder,e,praCdc
                                                                                                            Th,a
                                                                                                               mopw-s     -olrs dsoia
                                                                                                                                bytheMap esp Ua, a Th. Wod 1ank
                                                                                                                                sd            -osad
                                                                                                                                                 anyahen ---rata show,

                 -   RAILROADS                 -- - REGIONBOUNDARIES                                       anthFe don              an-th pr0ta TheWoHdBSnkG-op, any
                                                                                                           g'o-gmnr- theIeltaa at ay terroa7a
                                                                                                                  ap       .m-ply.                  any -nda- -iena

                                               ---   INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES                                ccep-nce t ech bnd-r,as




                 O  100  200 30      4O0SKSbmeI/,,




            RUSSIAN FEDEAnOn                                                                                                              RUSSIAN


                                                          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                                                      ,    TANo1A                   TOAVaVK




                                                                                       A  7               A    -                 T                 rS




           lb S_-J
              TUKEITN\                           \                 ^\>KZKSTANAsl°oIl



                                                  '-    OSTANAI                       *-                         _.                       -    -J  ,c'k          HIA
                                                                                                                                                                  NGotZHAMB


                                                    KYZ          a              I           >   /
                                                                                    A,




                                                                                             KAFEAGAN~~~~~~~~AZKSTNl4"1


ZAZANHTAN               /                       UZBEK I9                              >             ten,ncuW




                         TURKMENISTAN00
                                      '                                      t   S       a   _             I                 K              STAN

                                                  TURKMENISTANZhsakaagtan
                                                   *        a'                   -    L-I
                                                                                      T      A      Itm           -      .                      I Aaana I             ¾E.ITA
                                                      "'a               aaL~~~~~~~~j
                                         |~~~~~~              IiL   Amp     /4        'tR  <,AUG.AND                                EA           :         taLe
                                                           505




         OF IRAN                        °S;hl-nSk                       ?     ->      TAT             ---- JW    \S-OSA nTaaaaENITAN                              CHINA~
                                                                                               ~           ~        .                                 4
                                    ho'~                                AFGHANISTAN     70




                                   7=  KLMTR                                            ,                         1                            /                       74  .


                                   FAl/KMKO1L A                                                 S


                                                                           <    \ \        Dam/Reservoi,rv                    KaragandaO~~~Seearadela
                                                    c,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9




       ISAI   REPUOBLUDAICS                                                                     15   0                   IUkaartVan.Sh'al      nanwao             CHINA;U



                                                              N.  c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N'
                                                                   ./



                                     ~~~~~F
                 O 70    \Ktm
                            _ | 72.akdzhitso     K   , a..GeIyk%                          0   a74O   ntumak'K.pkI

                         We~~csada       05 6FF.ky                                         D  m      eservAr                  Karganda




                                                              ~>/
                                                    -                  ,                                          wOtLara4a"~~~~Kt
                   KILOMETERSolasip                      ½
                                                                 0/F~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                                        4
                                                 ~ ~~1/
                                           'IO'~                                                                           .

