           Document of
        The World Bank


                                 Report No: 55420 v1




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER

             ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
              OF
  NURA RIVER CLEAN-UP PROJECT
             LOAN
           MAY 8, 2003


            TO THE

   REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN


          June 28, 2010
         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




 Regional Vice President:        Philippe H. Le Houerou
        Country Director:        Motoo Konishi
Sector Manager / Director:       John Kellenberg
       Task Team Leader:         Frank Van Woerden



                             2
                         Extension of Closing Date
                KAZAKHSTAN -- NURA RIVER CLEAN-UP PROJECT
                                 P059803
                               LOAN4693KZ

                                  Restructuring Paper

1.    The Closing Date for the Kazakhstan Nura River Clean-Up Project, Loan
4693KZ, P059803 will be extended from June 30, 2010 until June 30, 2011.

2.      Implementation of project components and the associated outputs / outcomes
remains consistent with the development objective of improving the welfare of the
population in the Nura River Basin by cleaning up serious mercury pollution in and
adjacent to the Nura River; providing a safe, secure, and cost effective alternative source
of water supply to meet the growing needs of local water users; and by restoring flow
control in the river for flood management and ecological purposes.

3.     To date, 90% of the Loan or US$ 36 million has been disbursed and more than
1,000,000 m3 of polluted soil has been safely disposed in the constructed and operational
hazardous waste landfill. Works on the Intumak Reservoir Rehabilitation are
approximately 50% complete. In accordance with the developed action plan and the plan
of works by the contractors, the majority of works can be completed by the end of 2010,
with the final closure of the landfill in spring 2011 after the flood season. All
procurement under the project is finalized.

4.      The total costs of the project increased from the original US$ 67.82 million to
US$ 97.42 million during the detail design phase (financed under the Project after the
Loan effectiveness due to its complexity and costs). Subsequently, the Ministry of
Finance preferred to finance the increase of costs from additional government co-
financing rather than an increase of the Loan. After the required approval from the
Republic Budget Committee, the total Project costs and co-financing for the Project were
increased to cover all necessary expenditures under the Project. In addition, the Ministry
of Finance preferred to first deplete the loan and pay for the final part of the civil works
under the Project with 100% government co-financing. Therefore, the level of
disbursements under the Loan is greater than the physical progress of the total civil works
and activities under the Project. There is no outstanding audit for the Loan.

5.      Considering all of the above, the Task Team recommends an extension of the
Closing Date of the Loan Agreement from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011 to ensure
supervision of completion of all Bank- and Government financed Project activities,
including the final closure of the hazardous waste landfill constructed for this Category A
Project. Because of the high toxicity of mercury, appropriate health, safety, and


                                             3
environmental compliance of the clean-up works contractors is an important element of
the Project, and supervision is important.

6.      This is the second extension for this Project which had the original closing date of
September 30, 2009; cumulatively the extension will be less than two years from the
original Closing Date.




                                             4
