 IEG
                                                                                                    Report Number: ICRR14759

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                          Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Guinea-Bissau
             Project ID: P097975                                                        Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Multi-sector                    Project Costs (US$M):                        25.00                 25.16
                         Infrastructure
                         Rehabilitation Project
  L/C Number:                                            Loan/Credit (US$M):                        20.00                 20.16
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining               Cofinancing (US$M):                         5.00                  5.00

           Cofinanciers: West African                Board Approval Date :                                 06/15/2006
                         Development Bank                    Closing Date:              06/30/2011         03/31/2014
                         (BOAD)
          Sector(s):     Energy efficiency in Heat and Power (40%); Water supply (27%); Rural and Inter-Urban
                         Roads and Highways (17%); Central government administration (16%)
          Theme(s):      Water resource management (25%); State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization
                         (25%); Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (24%); Regulation and
                         competition policy (13%); Other urban development (13%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:              ICR Review                   Group:
                                                     Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy Ridley Nelson                   Christopher David            IEGPS1
                                                     Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The original objective of the Project was to assist the Recipient in rehabilitating and improving the quality and pe
rformance of its energy, water and road sectors (p. 5 Financing Agreement, 2007).

REVISED
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in increasing the availability and reliability of electricity and water
supply in its capital city and to improve the institutional and management capacities in the energy and water sectors
(page #4 - Grant Agreement 2010).

In accordance with the IEG guidelines, the original development objective from the Financing Agreement and the
revised development objective from the Grant Agreement are considered for this review due to the restructuring.

As part of restructuring on July 23, 2010, the Project Development Objective (PDO) was revised, some of the
activities under Components 3 and 4 were cancelled and IDA funds were reallocated to emergency power generation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 07/16/2010

c. Components:
There were five components. The scope of the components were revised as part of the restructuring in 2010. The
original and revised components are given below. The appraisal and actual costs indicated below were taken from
Annex 1 of the ICR.

Component 1: Institutional Development and Sectoral Studies (Appraisal cost: US$2.90M; Actual cost: US$ 2.93M). T
he objective of this component was to undertake institutional and capacity development support and sector studies
for: (i) the Ministry of the Economy; (ii) State Secretariat for Energy; (iii) Ministry of Natural Resources; (iv) '
Electricidade e Águas de Guinea-Bissau' (Electricity and Water Utility of Guinea Bissau) {EAGB} and (v) Ministry of
Public Works, Construction and Town Planning to improve energy, water, and road sectors and strengthen the
technical and financial management of the respective sector assets.

Component 2: Restoration and Rehabilitation of the Power System (Appraisal cost: US$11.05M; Actual cost: US$
14.50M). The objective of this component was to support a fast-tracked restoration and rehabilitation of power
generation and distribution and commercial operations in Bissau, including: (a) restoration of power generation via
the competitive contracting of a private operator for the generation of 15 Megawatt (MW) for a period of three to five
years (a Private Operation Scheme (POS)); (b) the rehabilitation of the electricity billing collection system by the
establishment and operation of an electricity pre-payment meter system by a private operator through a Build,
Operate and Transfer scheme (BOT), financed by IDA through the Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development
Project (PSRDP); and (c) the rehabilitation of the distribution network (financed by the West African Development
Bank, BOAD).

Component 3: Rehabilitation of Water Production, Treatment and Urban Distribution (Appraisal cost: US$ 4.85M;
Actual cost: US$ 4.13M). The objective of this component was to finance the rehabilitation and reinforcement of water
production systems in the city of Bissau. It included three sub-components: (a) Water Production; (b) Water
Distribution; and (c) Billing System and Operation tools.
.
Component 4: Limited Rehabilitation of Urban Road Infrastructure (Appraisal cost: US$ 3.20 M; Actual cost: US$
0.33M). The objective of this component was to rehabilitate “pot holes” along a set of roads of 20-30 kilometers in the
city of Bissau. This component financed: (a) feasibility studies to determine the type of works needed as well as the
eligibility criteria and timing for reconstruction of urban roads in the Recipient’s territory; (b) implementation of a
limited roads rehabilitation program, including civil works, acquisition of equipment, and provision of consultant
services to rehabilitate the primary and secondary road network in the city of Bissau; (c) supervision activities for civil
works under item (b) above; and (d) acquisition of one 4x4 vehicle.

Component 5: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (Appraisal cost: US$ 1.00 M; Actual cost: US$ 2.93M)
. The objective of this component was to finance the operational costs of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
Implication of restructuring on the Components
Components 3 and 4 were revised as part of a 2010 restructuring. The resources released from the cancelled
activities of the two components were used to address emergency power generation capacity needs. Three Megawatt
(MW) of thermal generation capacity was purchased and the lease on the existing 2.5 was extended. Specific
changes made to the design of the components were as follows:

Component #3: Financing for the water reservoir was cancelled and it was added to a new project under preparation:
‘Emergency Electricity and Water Rehabilitation Project (EEWRP)’, approved by the World Bank Board on July 23,
2010.

Component #4: The sub-component 'Supervision/Control of roads rehabilitation works and Road Rehabilitation Works'
was cancelled on the basis that the European Union (EU) was preparing a project that would include a larger roads
rehabilitation program, making the small road components in this project obsolete.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Costs:
The estimated cost at appraisal was US$ 25.00 M. The actual cost at completion was US$ 25.16 M (Annex 1 of ICR).

Financing:
Total Grant was US$ 20.16 M, of which IDA was US$ 15.16 M, IDA ( Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development
Project) PSRDP was US $ 5.00 M and West African Development Bank was US $ 5.00 M (Annex 1 of ICR).

Borrower Contribution :
None (Annex 1 of ICR). The ICR does not provide any reasons for the lack of the planned borrower contribution

Dates:
The project closed on March 31, 2014 instead of as planned at appraisal on June 30, 2011
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original Objective
Substantial
The Project was aligned with Government priorities in the water and energy sectors as reflected in the GoGB’s 2005
Interim National Power and Water Sector Rehabilitation and Development Programs. After years of political instability,
a new government program was approved on March 16, 2006 providing the necessary political and institutional
stability for the country to be able to reconfirm its standing commitments with the donor community. The PDO was
consistent with the country’s urgent need to increase the availability and reliability of electricity and water supply in its
capital city and improve the institutional and management capacities in the energy and water sectors. The DO was
confined to the critical need to the rebuild basic urban power, water, and road infrastructure in the city of Bissau,
which, in the absence of immediate external support, would have further deteriorated with consequences on economic
growth, health, and other social services. The PDO is thus assessed as highly relevant to the development priorities of
the Government.

At conception and preparation, the PDO supported the Bank’s twin goals of reducing extreme poverty and boosting
shared prosperity by providing access to safe water to the poor in unserved peri-urban areas of Bissau and by
restoring water and electricity services under affordable conditions throughout the city.

Revised Objective
Substantial
The PDO was revised to reflect the changes made during the first restructuring in 2010. Priority activities financed for
the roads sector such as the rehabilitation of the primary and secondary road network in the city of Bissau, were
dropped during the first project restructuring. The cancellation of the roads rehabilitation works from Component 4
shifted the priority focus of the PDO to energy and water sectors, which remained critical from the outset. The revised
PDO aligned with the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) finalized in November 2014. According to the CEM,
the relevance of the PDO was imperative given its critical role in poverty reduction through improved reliable basic
public utilities, electricity and water, without which livelihood and business development opportunities would be
constrained. The PDO is thus assessed as highly relevant to the development priorities of the Government at project
closure.

The PDO continued to be highly relevant according to the Government’s Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP II - 2011). The Project is fully aligned with two of its core areas: (i) Pillar # 3 -- Promoting sustainable, inclusive
and broad-based economic growth through support to economic sectors with strong growth potential; and (ii) Pillar # 4
- Developing human capital within the framework of a better life for the people, as well as gender equity, in the context
of the new sector related and cross-cutting policies.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Original design:
Modest
The Project design responded to the immediate needs of the country at the time. The components targeted three
major infrastructure sectors (electricity, water, and roads) appropriate to achieve the development objective. The
Project financed activities were considered “urgent first and critical steps” towards the rebuilding of basic urban power,
water, and road infrastructure in the city of Bissau ( ICR p.10) where alternate sources of funding were not available.
In this regard, the design was a proactive response to infrastructure in a post-conflict context. The Project was the first
post-conflict donor intervention in infrastructure.

The M&E framework was weak. The initial indicators were a mix of inputs and outputs. Baseline data was not
collected for various sub- components. PDO indicators listed in the Financing Agreement were reported as output
indicators in the PAD. Outputs /outcomes of some of the indicators also did not fully rely on activities to be
implemented under the Project (ICR p.10).

A centralized PCU was responsible for implementation. A centralized PCU was responsible for implementation. The
components were separated by sector with clear sub-components/activities to be implemented by the PCU. Social
and environmental mitigation measures were adequately incorporated into Project design

Revised design:
Modest
The PDO was revised as part of the first Project restructuring due to over-ambitious project design. The revised PDO
aligned with the reduced scope of component 3 and 4. Component 3 and 4 were revised due to lack of private sector
interest in the energy sector and the overturn of the small road component to obsoleteness in the light of larger road
rehabilitation program by EU. Scope of component 3 and 4 was thus reduced. Part of the financing for the water
reservoir under component 3 and roads rehabilitation works under component 4 were cancelled.

The original results framework was revised to better reflect the revised Project activities and to incorporate new core
energy sector indicators (Annex 10: Revised Results Framework). While the ICR records that the baseline indicators
were updated with 2009 target values, it also informs that the reliability of the information is questionable given the
state of the electricity and water sectors in Bissau (Annex 7. Revised Indicators 2010 Restructuring p. 59) (Annex 10
includes the revised results framework)

With regard to implementation arrangements, the originally designed implementation arrangements remained


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The original objective of the Project was “to assist the Recipient in rehabilitating and improving the quality and
performance of its energy, water and road sectors” (p. 5, Financing Agreement, 2007).

The revised objective of the Project was “to assist the Recipient in increasing the availability and reliability of electricity
and water supply in its capital city and to improve the institutional and management capacities in the energy and water
sectors”

Efficacy is assessed separately on the objectives of the original and revised objective.

ORIGINAL OBJECTIVE
Three sub-objectives of the original objective are assessed under this section.

1) Rehabilitating, improving the quality and performance of the energy sector
Rated Modest
There was an increase in capacity of electricity generation and installation of prepayment meters.
Outputs
1. Increase in electricity generation capacity owned by EAGB (MW): 11 (200% achieved)
2. Number of prepayment meters installed: 15,137 (101 % achieved)
3. Collection rate of electricity bills: 73 (77% achieved)

Outcome
The rehabilitation and installation of an urban distribution network contributed to improved performance mainly
through reducing electricity losses and improved collection rate.

2) Rehabilitating, improving the quality and performance of water supply
Rated Modest
Outputs
Improved community water points constructed or rehabilitated under the Project (number)58 (100% achieved)
Outcome
While water infrastructure rehabilitated, there is no evidence on the impact of these water points

3) Rehabilitating, improving the quality and performance of the road sector
Rated Negligible
Institutions of the Ministry responsible for infrastructure and road transport received technical support to improve the
institutional and regulatory framework of the road sector.
Outputs
Technical assistance was used to develop a transport Sector Strategy and a Letter of Transport Sector Policy was
produced.

Outcome
The ICR does not provide outcome evidence.

REVISED OBJECTIVE
Three sub-objectives of the revised objective are assessed under this section.
1) Increasing the availability and reliability of electricity
Rated Modest
While there was an increase in the number of beneficiaries, the amount of electricity distribution decreased in 2014
due to external problems with fuel supply. According to the ICR, the current fuel supply crisis could be attributed to a
number of factors including : (a) the dire financial situation of the utility, which did not have the financial resources to
pay for the required fuel; (b) technical problems related to difficulty in switching some of the generators to operate on
less expensive HFO; and, (c) macroeconomic problems due to the GoGB’s lack of resources to pay for diesel imports.
However the ICR notes that the focus of the Project was on supporting the restoration and rehabilitation of critical
infrastructure.
Outputs
1. Annual electricity distribution to end-users (GWh) in Bissau: 12.2 (35% achieved)
2. Direct/indirect beneficiaries of electricity supply services: 172,000 (122% achieved) ( persons)

Outcome
The Project helped to maintain and restore electricity services during a very difficult period and increased power
distribution for end-users.

2) Increasing the availability and reliability of water supply
Rated Modest
There was a 77% achievement rate of the targets for “direct/indirect beneficiaries to water supply services”. The new
billing software installed in 2013 by SENELEC (the Senegalese electric utility) resulted in delays in billing a number of
customers during the first semester of 2014, which according to the ICR improved but after project closure (p. 17,
ICR).
Outputs
1. Number of people provided with access to “improved water sources” through new piped household water
connections that resulted from the Project (number): 91,350 (99% achieved).
2. Water distribution networks extended to un-served areas under the Project (kms): 54 (115% achieved).

Outcome
Project beneficiaries were connected to improved water supply sources at levels between 77% and 115% of the
targets.

3) Improving the institutional and management capacities in the energy and water sectors
Rated Modest
Studies, strategies, training, workshops carried out as part of the sub-objective contributed towards the capacity of
the Electricity and Water Utility of Guinea Bissau (EAGB) and the Ministry of Public Works, Energy, Natural
Resources and Economy. Additionally, the Ministries also received vehicles, computers and office equipment as part
of institutional strengthening and EAGB provided prepayment meters.

Outputs ( p. 30, ICR)
1. Study to assist the GoGB to identify the best option for reform of EAGB finalized.
2. Options for institutional reform of the water and electricity sectors and for restructuring EAGB sanctioned.
3. Final report on efficient and transparent electricity tariff structure and indexation formula submitted to the
Government in 2014 and awaiting approval.
4. Medium to Long Term National Energy Development Strategy finalized in 2014 and various workshops were held to
discuss it with the different stakeholders. This activity also included training of two EAGB staff on NEPLAN and ArcGis
programs (the number of trainings are not reported).
5. Financial and Accounting Management System for EAGB procured. This included, the necessary training for the
utilization of the system and Technical Assistance. These activities were implemented through the technical
assistance contract to manage EAGB’s commercial and financial departments.
6. Support to purchase vehicles, computers, office equipment, and training provided to the Ministry of Public Works,
the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Ministry of Economy.
7. Communities sensitized through training on challenges involved in the new mode of community management of
public standpipes (number of trainings not reported).

Outcome
 The Project contributed to maintaining water supply in Bissau at a difficult time as well as some level of electricity
service suggesting some level of capacity achievement. (p. 18, ICR). The Project strengthened technical and
managerial capacities in EAGB as well as the water and energy directorates at the Ministry of Trade, Energy, Industry
and Environment. The Project increased staff competencies and know-how in areas such as energy and water policy
formulation, energy and water regulation, commercial and financial aspects of the utility, and technical aspects, such
as the installation and maintenance of pre-paid meters. EAGB staff were trained on NEPLAN and ArcGis programs.
Communities were sensitized on new modalities of community management of public standpipes. 58 community
management committees were created for the 58 standpipes funded by the Project.

5. Efficiency:
  Modest
Financial and Economic Efficiency
At the time of project preparation, EAGB’s operational and financial performance was very weak. At appraisal financial
analysis was carried out on the water and energy sectors. The institutional development and road maintenance
activities were not included in the analysis based on the qualitative nature of the expected outcomes.

The forecasts considered only the expected additional costs and revenues accruing to the utility (EAGB) as a result of
the Project. The impact on users (additional consumer surplus, increased tariffs, etc.) was not part of the analysis.
The Project document provided only the estimated Net Present Value (NPV) for power investments, and only an
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) for water investments. (ICR p.19).

An ex post economic analysis was carried out at closure, to assess the economic impact of the project based on the
value of the service provided. The analysis considered: (i) Willingness to pay (WTP) with a discount of 20 percent at
the lower bound of the range of observed prices for micro-generation in Bissau (UScents 100 per kWh) ; and, (ii) Cost
of supply by EAGB based largely on the technical and financial reporting from EAGB for 2013 and 2014. The analysis
indicated that the average cost of electricity delivered to EAGB’s customer’s through incremental investment in
thermal generation would be US$0.69 per kWh with a 10 percent discount rate (and 0.71 with a 15 percent discount
rate), if the new generation equipment were used for five years instead of 15 years with good maintenance. When
compared to the discounted benefits derived from the estimated WTP (US$0.80 per kWh), the discounted Project
costs resulted in an EIRR of incremental generation investments of 32.9 percent. However, this was only a partial
analysis. Water was excluded from the analysis.


Cost Effectiveness
With regard to cost effectiveness two weakness are noted. Firstly, the project failed to bring about sufficient
improvement in EAGB’s performance to restore the company’s financial viability, which could have significant
implications for sustainability. Secondly, the project took nearly 3 years longer than planned on a project that was
originally expected to be completed in less than 4 years

Administrative Efficiency
Project activities were completed despite some delays mostly due to the military coup in 2012 that hindered
completion of some activities and lack of capacity and frequent changes in the beneficiary institutions. The capacity of
the PCU and the flexible approach allowed the Project to better serve the needs of the country and respond to
emergency situations such as the collapse of electricity generation in Bissau in December 2007. Procurement,
financial management, and safeguard issues were adequately handled by the PCU.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      32.9%                                    58%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project was technically restructured three times but the original PDO was revised only as part of the first
restructuring to reflect the reduced scope of components 3 and 4. This therefore is the transition point in rating the
before and after restructuring periods.

While split rating for the before and after restructuring periods is considered using disbursement for the periods before
and after the first restructuring, it is not explicitly calculated in this section since the outcome rating before and after
restructuring is Moderately Unsatisfactory, therefore weighting would have no influence. In this regard, while the
project modestly contributed to maintaining water supply as well as some level of electricity service during the difficult
periods, it failed to bring about sufficient improvement in EAGB’s performance to restore the company’s financial
viability and took nearly 3 years longer than planned on a project that was originally expected to be completed in less
than 4 years. As noted, the ICR does not substantiate evidence on the returns on water supply .

Original ratings - The relevance of the project objective is rated substantial and the relevance of design is rated
modest. The efficacy of achievement of the project objective is rated modest. Efficiency is rated modest. Therefore,
outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
Restructured ratings - The relevance of objectives is rated substantial and the relevance of design is rated modest.
The efficacy of achievement of the project objective is rated modest. Efficiency is rated modest. Given the above,
outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

Overall Outcome. Moderately Unsatisfactory
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
    Though two IDA sector projects under implementation will continue supporting the objectives of the MIRP and
improve the financial and commercial situation of EAGB, three imminent risks persists: (i) the politically fragile
situation of the country, characterized by instability, frequent political changes, and a weak central government: (ii)
weak capacity of EAGB, in particular the difficult financial and commercial situation, to implement any major reform or
investment program and to attract support from development partners; and (iii) the lack of interest of the private sector
in investing in the energy and water sectors due to the political fragility.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Technical analysis of the sectors to be supported by the Project was thorough and the activities to be
supported by the Project were aligned with Government priorities in the water and energy sectors as reflected in
the GoGB’s 2005 Interim National Power and Water Sector Rehabilitation and Development Programs. As a
result, the Project design focused on responding to real and urgent needs faced by the country at the time of
project appraisal.

The Project was also in line with the country’s and the Bank’s development priorities and integrated lessons
learned from previous projects in the region. Key lessons were : (a) adopting a flexible approach allowing a
parallel implementation of the investment program and the institutional reforms; (b) restoring power and/or water
production and distribution accompanied by the implementation of activities intended to establish a system-wide
culture of bill payment; and (iii) supporting the development and adoption of an appropriate tariff policy in order to
restore the financial equilibrium of the water and electricity sectors.

In the process of incorporating global lessons, project preparation overlooked the need for substantial financial
resources and the possibility of implementation of reforms within the existing environment. For instance, the
project proposed a fast-track approach to restoration and rehabilitation of power generation without sufficiently
weighing the risks of unstable political and macroeconomic environment in enabling private sector participation.

The M&E framework was weak. The initial indicators were a mix of inputs and outputs. Baseline data was not
collected for the component activities. Outputs /outcomes of some of the indicators also did not fully rely on
activities to be implemented under the Project (p.10 ICR). Social and environmental mitigation measures were
adequately incorporated into the Project design.

Risks were identified, but some risks were underestimated. For instance, the risk regarding the willingness of the
private sector to invest in a small fragile state, though identified during appraisal, it was underrated. This was
planned to be mitigated by IDA’s involvement in the Project and the setting-up of an IDA Partial Risk Guarantee
instrument for the power component (POS scheme and fuel supply). This risk materialized, as the proposed POS
scheme was no longer considered appropriate by the mid-term review and was cancelled during the restructuring
of 2010 (see section 2.2 for details on cancellation of this scheme) (p. 11 ICR).

Mitigation measures related to the financial weakness of the utility identified at appraisal including the mitigation
measure to create a PCU within the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Private Sector Rehabilitation
and Development Project (PSRDP) of the Ministry of Economy were taken at entry to address the identified risk.
This was adequate and the risk did not materialize.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank undertook regular missions to supervise the energy sector technical aspects. Supervision of the
water and the roads sector was sometimes uneven, as noted in various ISRs. Fiduciary supervision was carried
out regularly and no major fiduciary problems occurred. Environmental and social issues were adequately
monitored and the Bank team provided support to strengthen the PCU´s safeguards capacity.

The Bank was proactive in supporting the Government in addressing key challenges and emergency situations.
The continuity of the Bank team over the Project preparation and implementation period helped to customize
implementation support to the specific circumstances in the country. The Project had three task managers over a
period of preparation and implementation stretching over a decade. However, in both transitions, the new task
manager was a previous team member.

The mid-term review (MTR) was timely (November 2009). At MTR, progress towards achieving the PDO was
rated Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) while implementation progress was rated Moderately Satisfactory (MS). The
Bank team appropriately supported the three requests for restructuring the Project to extend the closing date and
reallocate funds to allow for the co- financing of emergency generation capacity and leasing of emergency
generators. The Bank provided hands on support that helped implementation of Project activities to continue
during various political crises and a period of suspension of disbursement.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The GoGB recognized the problems faced by the electricity and water sectors, the need to implement
significant reforms and reflected this in the GoGB’s 2005 Interim National Power and Water Sector Rehabilitation
and Development Programs. However, the political situation in the country has been an obstacle to implement of
these reforms. The transitional Government established after the military coup of 2012 did not have the necessary
political power to implement the required measures, delaying implementation momentum.

The Government did not fulfill expectations regarding to the use Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO) for the ABC generators
installed in 2012 to lower cost of production. The limited performance of the power utility, EAGB, also had a
negative impact on Project implementation and the achievement of the project development objectives. Despite
some improvements, EAGB is still in a dire financial situation as evidenced by the fuel shortage and the lack of
maintenance of the distribution network.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The performance of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was rated mostly Satisfactory and Moderately
Satisfactory on ISRs throughout the implementation. Project activities were completed with an additional two and
half years of implementation period. Despite the lack of capacity of the beneficiary institutions (i.e., EAGB and the
relevant departments at the sector ministry), delays from the 2012 military coup and multiple changes in
management in the beneficiary institutions, the PCU took the leadership on the implementation of the various
components and activities and maintained a proactive role throughout Project implementation.

Procurement, financial management, and safeguard issues were adequately handled by the PCU.
The PCU was staffed with a Procurement Specialist proficient in Bank procedures. The Project faced a problem
with a bidding process that took place in 2008 for extending the contract with MARFORCE for the leasing of the
generators, but it was satisfactorily addressed with the re-launch of the procurement process. With regard to
financial management, PIU staffing remained adequate and proper books of accounts and supporting documents
were kept in respect of all expenditures. While safeguards were appropriately implemented, as reported during the
MTR,,a qualified Social and Environmental Specialist was recruited at the PCU to better supervise social and
environmental aspects of the Project. However, at the project closing, the environmental clean-up of the power
plant site had not been implemented due to delays in finalizing the contract for installing the new generators that
did not allow the launch of the environmental clean-up.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory
   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The results framework covered activities to be financed by the MIRP, the funds to be reallocated under the
PSRDP, and the BOAD (West African Development Bank) funds. Thus, the outputs /outcomes of some of the
indicators did not solely rely on the activities to be implemented under the Project ( p. 10, ICR). The ICR records that
the justification for this was the integrated and interdependent nature of the projects that were all part of the same
framework of outcomes ( p.13).

The original results framework was revised to better reflect the revised Project activities and to incorporate new core
energy sector indicators (Annex 10: Revised Results Framework). While the ICR records that the baseline indicators
were updated with 2009 target values, the reliability of the information is questionable given the state of the electricity
and water sectors in Bissau (ICR, Annex 7. Revised Indicators 2010 Restructuring p. 59).

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Monitoring and evaluation was challenging throughout Project implementation due to EAGB's low capacity to
provide reliable technical, commercial, and financial data, as reflected in various Implementation Status and Results
Reports (ISRs) and Aide-memoires. Monitoring activities to be implemented by other financing sources were difficult.
. Baseline data was not collected for various sub- components.

During the 2010 restructuring, the new M&E framework tried to address some of the gaps in the results framework,
but ended up including indicators related to activities to be implemented by the EEWRP (i.e., electricity generation
capacity owned by EAGB, collection rate of electricity bills, installation of the pre-paid meters). The changes in the
M&E framework created confusion for EAGB and the PCU in terms of what needed to be measured. For instance, the
addition of new core indicators to be measured (such as: Direct/indirect beneficiaries to water supply services;
number of people provided with access to “improved water sources”) needed to be clarified after which the PCU
collected the required data.

c. M&E Utilization:
  No information is provided in the ICR.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Environmental Safeguards: The Project was classified as category B and triggered OP 4.01.
Safeguards were rated satisfactory or moderately satisfactory' throughout Project implementation. As proposed
during the MTR, a qualified Social and Environmental Specialist was recruited at the PCU to better supervise social
and environmental aspects of the Project. However, as noted, at the project closing, the environmental clean-up of the
power plant site was not implemented due to delays in finalizing the contract for installing the new generators that did
not allow the launch of the environmental clean-up. This activity will be financed by the Emergency Water and
Electricity Services Upgrading Project (p.14, ICR).

Social Safeguards: Not applicable

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement
All Project components were implemented in accordance with the Bank’s procurement guidelines for works, goods,
and services. Procurement was rated satisfactory throughout Project implementation. The PCU was staffed with a
Procurement Specialist proficient in Bank procedures.

The Project faced a problem with a bidding process that took place 2008 for extending the contract with MARFORCE
for the leasing of the generators, but it was satisfactorily addressed with the re-launch of the procurement process
(p.14, ICR)..

Financial Management
Financial management was rated satisfactory throughout Project implementation. PIU staffing remained adequate and
proper books of accounts and supporting documents were kept in respect of all expenditures. The auditors’ opinions
on the annual financial statements were submitted on time and were unqualified. The interim un-audited financial
reports were also submitted on time and the quality of the reports was found to be satisfactory (p.14, ICR).

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
NONE

d. Other:
NA


12. Ratings:                                ICR                  IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                         Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following two lessons from the ICR are given here with some adaptation by IEG.

The willingness of the private sector to invest in fragile states can be expected to be limited and should be
realistically assessed in project design. While private sector investments are needed in fragile states, a realistic
analysis of the willingness of the private sector to get involved in such a context should be conducted. A high level
dialogue with the interested private sector entities would help identify the issues in such scenarios and possible
measures that could be adopted to mitigate the risk.

M&E design should be simple in a weak institutional setting. Realistic and measurable core indicators that directly
link to the project activities could be primarily tested out in the early phases of implementation. Any difficulties
noted in gathering reliable data on these indicators could then be quickly addressed. Broad indicators should be
avoided since they may be difficult to interpret. In the case of this project, indicators were not linked to the project
led activities alone, but relied on activities to be achieved by the PRSDO, EEWRD, and the BOAD operations,
which though interrelated proved difficult to monitor. Given the difficulties in gathering reliable data right from the
start, it would have been desirable for the Bank team to pro-actively address this issue early in implementation.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:
The ICR provides an extensive report of project investments and problems faced. The section on lessons learnt is
evidence based and comprehensive. Stakeholders are well defined and the draft reports their participation in various
segments of the project cycle. The ICR records poverty, gender and social elements as addressed by the Project.
Safeguard and fiduciary compliance are reported with evidence and clarity. The report includes a good Borrower ICR.

There were, however, a few weaknesses. Project costs provided in the component section differ from those provided
in Annex 1. The water sector is not considered in the economic analysis at project closure. The ICR did not report
sufficiently on skill mix of the team and whether and how monitoring and evaluation was utilized.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
