OFFICIAL                    %WK  >   (
DOCUMENTS
falyThe World Bank                                     1818 H Street N.W.           (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT '-   *       9   43           Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                  U.S.A.                       Cable Address: INDEVAS
August 6, 2013
His Excellency Issufo Sanha
Minister of Economy
Ministry of Economy
Republic of Guinea Bissau
Re: IDA Financing H235 -GUB (Multi-Sector Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project)
First restatement of the Disbursement letter dated June 15, 2007
Additional Instructions: Disbursement
Excellency:
I refer to the Financing Agreement between the International Development Association (the "Association") and
Republic of Guinea Bissau (the "Recipient") for the above-referenced project, dated June 15, 2007. The Agreement
provides that the Association may issue additional instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of and the
operation of the Designated Account for, Financing H235-GUB ("Financing").
This revised Disbursement Letter supersedes the Disbursement Letter dated June 15, 2007, for the above referenced
project, restating Section I (iii) and (iv) to add ' Electronic Delivery' and "Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC
to Process Applications", to enable electronic submission of application. In addition, the addresses where
authorized signatures and withdrawal application should be sent, stated in Section II (i and ii), have also been
updated. All other provisions and attachments of the Disbursement Letter dated July 07, 2007, except as amended,
shall remain in force and effect. This letter ("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time, constitutes the
additional instructions.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006, ("Disbursement Guidelines")
(Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter. The manner in which the provisions in the
Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Financing is specified below. Sections and subsections in parentheses below
refer to the relevant sections and subsections in the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this
letter, the capitalized terms used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used under the Financing:
*   Reimbursement
*   Advance
*   Direct Payment
*   Special Commitment
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4 months after the Closing
Date specified in the Financing Agreement. Any changes to this date will be notified by the Association.
II. Withdrawal of Financing Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1).
A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should be furnished to the Association at the address indicated below
providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to sign Applications:


﻿The World Bank Country Office
Corniche Ouest X David Diop
Dakar - Senegal
Attention: Ms Vera Songwe
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications for withdrawal,
together with supporting documents, and (b) applications for special commitments, together with a copy of the
commercial bank letter of credit, to the address indicated below:
The World Bank
Loan Department
Kenya Re Towers, 10th Floor
Upper Hill, off Ragati Road
Nairobi
Kenya.
Contact Telephone number: +254 20 2983 000.
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The World Bank may permit the Recipient to electronically deliver to the
World Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the World Bank's Client Connection, web-based
portal. The option to deliver Applications to the World Bank by electronic means may be effected if: (a) the
Recipient has designated in writing, pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are
authorized to sign and deliver Applications and to receive secure identification credentials ("SIDC") from the World
Bank for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such officials designated by
the Recipient have registered as users of Client Connection. If the World Bank agrees, the World Bank will provide
the Recipient with SIDC for the designated officials. Following which, the designated officials may deliver
Applications electronically by completing Form 2380, which is accessible through Client Connection
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of preparing and
delivering Applications in paper form. The World Bank reserves the right and may, in its sole discretion,
temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of Applications by the Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC to Process Applications. By designating officials to use SDIC and by
choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient confirms through the authorized signatory letter its
agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with
Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of
SIDC") provided in Attachment [3]; and (b) to cause such official to abide by those terms and conditions.
(iv) Minimum Value ofApplications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications is FCFA 100,000,000
(v) Advances (sections 5 and 6).
*   Type of Designated Account (subsection 5.3): Segregated
*   Currency ofDesignated Account (subsection 5.4): FCFA
*   Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5): Banco da Africa Occidental SA, BAO, Bissau
*   Ceiling (subsection 6.1): FCFA 500,000,000
III. Reporting on Use of Financing Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with each application for
withdrawal as set out below:


﻿* For requests for reimbursement and for reporting eligible expenditures paid from the Designated
Account.'
o   List of payments against contracts that are subject to the Association's prior review, in the form
attached (Attachment 3);
o   Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices) for payments
for (i) works under contracts valued at $250,000 equivalent or more; (ii) goods under contracts
valued at $150,000 equivalent or more; (iii) consultants' services provided by firms under
contracts valued at $100,000 equivalent or more; and (iv) consultants' services provided by
individuals under contracts valued at $50,000 equivalent or more; and
o   Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 4) for all other expenditures.
* For requests for direct payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies of receipts, supplier
invoices
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account (subsection 6.3): monthly
(iii) Other Supporting Documentation Instructions: Please include Designated Account reconciliation and bank
statements
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the Disbursement Handbook
available on the Association's public website at http://www.worldbank.org and its secure website "Client
Connection" at http://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon request.
If you have not already done so, the Association recommends that you register as a user of the Client
Connection website (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website you will be able to download
Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Financing, and retrieve related policy, financial, and
procurement information. For more information about the website and registration arrangements, please contact the
Association at clientconnectiongworldbank.org.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Faly Diallo, Regional Finance Officer at loa
afr@worlbank.org using the above reference.
Yours sincerely,
Wolfgang M. T. Chadab
Senior Finance Officer
CTRLD
1. Attachment: Terms and Conditions of Use ofSecure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of
Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated March 1, 2013
Cc with copies:
Minister of Economy and Regional Integration
Ministry Of Economy and Regional Integration
C.P. 67
Bissau


﻿Attachment i1
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
March 1, 2013
The World Bank (Bank)' will provide secure identification credentials (SIDC) to permit the Borrower2 to deliver
applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under the Agreement(s) and supporting
documentation (such applications and supporting documentation together referred to in these Terms and Conditions
of Use as Applications) to the Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
SIDC can be either: (a) hardware-based (Physical Token), or (b) software-based (Soft Token). The Bank reserves
the right to determine which type of SIDC is most appropriate.
A.      Identification of Users.
1. The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter (ASL) duly delivered to
and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to deliver Applications. The Bank will
provide SIDC to each person identified in the ASL (Signatory), as provided below. The Borrower shall
also immediately notify the Bank if a Signatory is no longer authorized by the Borrower to act as a
Signatory.
2. Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.or) prior to receipt of his/her SIDC. Registration on CC will require
that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The Signatory shall not reveal his/her CC
Password to anyone or store or record the CC Password in written or other form. Upon registration as a CC
user, the Signatory will be assigned a unique identifying account name.
B.      Initialization of SIDC.
1.     Prior to initialization of SIDC by a Signatory, the Signatory will acknowledge having read, understood and
agreed to be bound by these Terms and Conditions of Use.
2.      Where a Physical Token is to be used, promptly upon receipt of the Physical Token, the Signatory will
access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register his/her Physical Token and set a
personal identification number (PIN) to be used in connection with the use of his/her Physical Token, after
which the Physical Token will be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering
Applications. Where a Soft Token is to be used, the Signatory will access CC using his/her account name
and CC Password and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in connection with the use of
his/her Soft Token, after which the Soft Token will be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for
purposes of delivering Applications. Upon initialization of the SIDC, the Signatory will be a "SIDC User".
The Bank will maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each SIDC User for purposes of
'"Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
2 "Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the
recipient of a grant.


﻿managing the SIDC of the SIDC User. Neither the Borrower nor the SIDC User will have any access to the
Account.
3.      Prior to first use of the SIDC by the SIDC User, the Borrower shall ensure that the SIDC User has received
training materials provided by the Bank in use of the SIDC.
C.      Use of SIDC.
Use of the SIDC is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the SIDC User in the manner
prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms and Conditions. Any other use of the SIDC is
prohibited.
2.      The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the SIDC by the SIDC User,
other representatives of the Borrower, or third parties.
3.      The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such representation and
warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in granting SIDC) that each SIDC User understands and
will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of Use, including without limitation the following:
4.      Security
4.1. The SIDC User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in written or other form.
4.2. The SIDC User shall not allow anyone else to utilize his/her SIDC to deliver an Application to the Bank.
4.3. The SIDC User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to logout properly can
create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4. If the SIDC User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her Physical Token he/she
shall immediately notify clientconnectiongworldbank.org.
4.5. The Borrower shall immediately notify the Bank at clientconnection@worldbank.org of any lost, stolen or
compromised SIDC, and take other reasonable steps to ensure such SIDC are disabled immediately.
5.     Reservation of Right to Disable SIDC
5.1. The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a SIDC User to use a SIDC for any
reason.
5.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently disable a SIDC, de-
activate a SIDC User's Account or both.
6.     Care of Physical Tokens
6.1. Physical Tokens will remain the property of the Bank.
6.2. The Bank will physically deliver a Physical Token to each Signatory designated to receive one in a manner
to be determined by and satisfactory to the Bank.
6.3. Physical Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore should be handled with
due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to extreme temperatures, crushed or bent. Also,
Physical Tokens should be kept more than five (5) cm from devices that generate electromagnetic radiation
(EMR), such as mobile phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Physical
Tokens should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At close range (less than 5 cm), these


﻿devices can output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper operation of electronic equipment,
including the Physical Token.
6.4. Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical instructions on the proper use
and care of Physical Tokens are available at http://www.rsa.com.
7.     Replacement
7.1. Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Physical Tokens will be replaced at the
expense of the Borrower.
7.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Physical Token in the case of misuse,
or not to reactivate a SIDC User's Account.


