Document of
The World Bank                              FILE CC7Y1
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4147b-UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
January 20, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(November 1981)      (July 1982)    (December 1982)
1 New Peso (Np)    =       US$0.08726           US$0.0786       US$0.0400
US$1.00             =      Np 11.46             Np 12.73        Np 25.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
%Units and Measures
1 meter (m)                  =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =    0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =    1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations
AFE            Administracion de los Ferrocarriles del Estado
ALADI (formerly
ALALC)  Latin America Free Trade Association
ANCAP          National Petroleum Company
ANP            Administracion Nacional de Puertos
CATIDU         International Transport Confederation of Uruguay
CUTA           Uruguayan Miotorcar Transport Confederation
DGAC           Direccion General d.e Aviacion Civil
DGIA           Direccion General de Infraestructura Aeronautica
DINAI AC       Direccion Nacional de Aviacion Civil
DNT            National Directorate of Transportation
DODE           Directorate of Economic Development Works
FALPRO         United Nations Document Facilitation Program
HDM            Highway Design Model
Intendencia    Municipal Administration of each District
IRU            International Road Union
MTOP           Ministry of Transport and Public Works
PLUNA          Primeras Lineas Uruguayas de Navegacion Aerea
SEPLACODI      Secretaria de Planificacion, Coordinacion y Difusion
TAC            Transport Advisory Council
TAMU           Transportes Aereas Militares Uruguayas
TIR            Transport International Routiers Convention
TPU            Transport Planning Unit of DNT
Vialidad       National Highways Directorate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
URUGUAY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ........................................    1
A.   General ......1........................................ 
B.   The Transport System .................................    2
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination ..............                 4
II.   THE ROAD TRANSPORT INDUSTRY .......         .........................    6
A.   General ...............................................    6
B.   Regulatory Framework .........        ............... .... .       6
C.   Tariffs and Costs ....................................    6
D.   The Vehicle Fleet ....................................    7
E.   Organization of the Industry .....           ....................    7
F.   Marketing Practices and Fleet Utilization ...........        .    7
G.   Potential Development of Intermodal Transport Services    8
III.   THE HIGH1WAY SUBSECTOR .....................................    9
A.   The Highway Network ..                     ..................    9
B.   Highway Administration ..................... ..........    9
C.   Highway Planning .         ....................................   10
D.   Highway Engineering ......          ............................   11
E.   Highway Construction ....... ..........................   11
F.   Highway Maintenance ......        ............................   12
G.   Feeder Roads of the Intendencias ..             ...................   12
H.  Highway Financing                 .............  13
I.   Auditing ......................                                   14
IV.   PAST BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ....            ..........   14
V.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT ......................................   15
A.   Objectives and General Description . ..................   15
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements  ..........   21
C.   Execution and Procurement .......            .....................   24
D.   Semi-Annual Consultations and Project Monitoring .....   25
E.   R-isks ........................................................   26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Uruguay in February 1982 and August 1982. The mission comprised
Messrs. A. van Dijck (Senior Highway Engineer) and B. Bostrom (Senior
Transport Economist). The report has been edited by Miss V.R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ............................                       26
A.  General .....................                                   26
B.   Road Selection .....................                           27
C. Traffic Development .28
D.  National Feeder Roads Program .28
E.   Project Returns ...................... , ., .                  29
F. Sensitivity Analysis .29
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .30
TABLES
2.1 Vehicle Fleet 1976 and 1980 .32
3.1 Highway Network 1976 and 1981              . . .33
3.2  Ministry of Transport and Public Works -- Income .34
3.3  Ministry of Transport and Public Works -- Expenditures               35
3.4  Gasoline and Gas-Oil Consumption             .    .     .36
5.1  Five-Year Highway Investmient Plan 1983-1987    ...                 37
5.2  Detailed Cost Estimates for Civil Works           . . .38
5.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements            .    .     .39
5.4  Tender and Construction Schedule                      .    .        40
6.1  Traffic on Project Roads 1982 and Traffic Growth .41
6.2  Economic Costs and Benefits for Main Roads Reconstruction   42
6.3  Economic Costs and Benefiits for Road Rehabilitation                43
6.4  Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests .44
ANNEXES
1    Outline Terms of Reference for a Study of Trucking and
Intermodal Services .45
2    Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to
Establish a Cost-Accounting System for AFE .46
3    National Road Evaluation - Methodology .           .................   47
4    Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File.   49
MAP
IBRD 14225R -- Uruguay - Third Highway Project



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
1.01      Uruguay is a small fertile country with a population of less than
three million. Bordered by the two largest countries in South America,
Argentina on the west and Brazil on the north, and with more than half of
its national boundary consisting of navigable coastline on the south and
east, the country, geographically, is unusually well endowed for the
export-oriented development strategy which it is pursuing. The concentra-
tion of Uruguay's commercial activity and population in the capital of
Montevideo is reflected in the country's transport system. The interior,
with relatively flat terrain, main rivers at boundaries and low density
agricultural production, offered no obstacles to the development of radial
roads and rail networks, extending north, east and west from the metropol-
itan region around the seaport of Montevideo (Map IBRD 14225R).  This port,
strategically located at the mouth of the La Plata River, is the country's
focal point for foreign trade and also serves inland and coastal naviga-
tion.
1.02      Of total freight in 1980, 85% was carried by road, 12% by rail
and 3% by river transport. Since 1976, the share of traffic by road in-
creased, and both river and rail traffic decreased.   The share of road
transport also increased for inter-urban passenger traffic, with buses
carrying 62% in 1980, private automobiles 28%, rail only 9% and domestic
air transport a remaining small portion.  The transport sector of Uruguay,
in 1980, provided a total of about Np 4 billion (US$437 million), or 5.2%
of the GNP. Employment in the sector was some 67,000, or about 6% of the
economically active population. These percentages are high for a country
with short transport distances and few terrain limitations, and they
reflect the major limitations for the sector as a whole, i.e., relatively
low productivity and high operating costs. Improving productivity is,
therefore, important for the economy, not only directly, but also
indirectly, because such improvement would stimulate Uruguay's role in
transit traffic to neighboring countries.
1.03      Much of the existing transport system in Uruguay is antiquated
and inadequate for future needs. To define key development issues in the
sector, a comprehensive survey of the national transport system was under-
taken, with UNDP assistance, in 1976-1978, followed by technical assistance
starting in 1980 (para 1.18). This survey established a general framework
for transport investment and identified four areas of highest priority
need: (a) strengthening of national transport planning; (b) improvements
in road rehabilitation and reconstruction; (c) reductions in railroad
operations and deficit; and (d) port modernization.



-2-
B. The Transport System
(i) Highways
1.04      The principal problem of the road subsector as a whole is its
aged and seriously deteriorated naLtional network, notably its main interna-
tional connections. Road transport and the highway subsector are reviewed
in detail in Chapters II and III.
(ii) Railways
1.05      Up to 1949, Uruguay's ra,ilways had been owned and operated by
a British company for about 65 years. The concession terms promoted con-
struction of a large 3,000-km network, radiating from Montevideo in five
lines. In competition with the railways, the Uruguayan Government con-
structed roads paralleling many of the rail lines, and the British company
ceased further investments after 1926. Consequently, the Uruguayan Govern-
ment purchased an obsolete railway in 1949. The Administracion de los
Ferrocarriles del Estado (AFE), a semi-autonomous Government agency, was
set up in 1952 to operate the railways. AFE began replacing steam locomo-
tives with diesel-electrics, but did not improve the obsolete permanent way
and equipment. The intervening years have seen a further deterioration in
the condition of the railways through lack of maintenance and replacement
investment. Inevitably, the quality of service has fallen markedly,
reflected in rapidly declining passenger and freight traffic. A recovery
plan was drawn up in 1973, including purchase of rolling stock and modern
workshop equipment. Some rolling stock has been acquired since then, and a
program of mechanical processing of ballast is in progress.
1.06      Despite its deterioration and significant reductions in traffic,
the railway network still carries 12% (250 million ton-km) of Uruguay's
intercity freight and 9% (420 million passenger-km) of the intercity and
suburban passenger movements. Principal items of freight are construction
materials, rice and other grains, sugar and fertilizers. However, traffic
levels on much of the rail system are now very low; the only lines carrying
significant traffic are those from Montevideo to Minas, Salto-Artigas, and
Rio Branco. The new connection with the Argentine system at Salto made it
necessary for AFE to construct a new 17-km rail-link near Mercedes, which
provides a shorter connection for through-traffic to Argentina and the
interconnection to Paraguay.   The Government appears poised also to extend
the railways into the underdeveloped Department of Tacuarembo by means of a
bridge over the Rio Negro - a proposition inadequately investigated from an
economic point of view. In the future, the railway investment plans will be
analyzed as part of the national transportation planning activity of the
Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP) (para 1.20).
1.07      Inefficient managerial and operating procedures of AFE and the
operation of unprofitable services and lines, combined with the poor physi-
cal and largely obsolete condition of the system, resulted in financial
losses which amounted to over US$7 million in 1976 and which increased to
about US$30 million in 1981. The total staff actually increased to 10,500
at the end of 1981, but has since been reduced to 9,400. The 1978
transport survey had concluded that a large part of rail traffic could be
carried more efficiently on roads. The survey recommended further study



of limiting passenger service to commuter lines near Montevideo and freight
service to specialized bulk cargoes such as minerals, fuels and grain. For
freight service, this transition has largely been achieved.
1.08      The coordination of different parts of the transport sector and
the condition of the railway are major concerns of the Government
(para 1.19). MTOP and AFE are also adopting a policy of redimensioning AFE
through selective track rehabilitation. Under the proposed project, funds
are included to assist AFE in establishing a cost accounting system
(para 5.17) and to ascertain the feasibility of a new multimodal transpcrt
terminal for Montevideo, with AFE's participation (para 5.16).
(iii) Ports and Maritime Transport
1.09      Nearly 91% of Uruguay's foreign trade in volume is maritime,
and most of this trade has traditionally been handled through the port of
Montevideo.  The predominant role of this port is historical:  the
sheltered bay provided access to large vessels, and the country's inland
transportation system grew around it, as did the metropolitan area of
Montevideo city. Major investments in public port installations began in
1905 and continued through 1931; they resulted in the existing general
cargo terminal, with navigational access for vessels of up to 10.0 m draft
(1.0 m more than at Buenos Aires). The oil refinery of the national
petroleum company (ANCAP) is located within the bay of Montevideo, and,
until recently, the entrance channel and the outer harbor of Montevideo
were used for all of Uruguay's crude oil imports, which were handled at
the ANCAP berths, across the bay from the commercial docks. Most of this
petroleum traffic, however, has now been moved to a new offshore tanker
mooring at Punta Jose Ignacio (about 145 km east of Montevideo).
1.10      There are four principal secondary ports in Uruguay, located
along the La Plata and Uruguay Rivers where draft limitations range from
9.0 m to 4.5 m: Colonia, Nueva Palmira, Fray Bentos and Paysandu. Traffic
through these ports consists mainly of cereals and construction materials,
exported to Argentina and Brazil. River navigation and coastal shipping
for domestic transport are relatively unimportant in Uruguay, amounting to
only 3% of internal freight movements. On the southeastern coast of
Uruguay, the port of La Paloma is currently being expanded as a fishery
port; while of considerable importance for the prospective growth of the
country's fishery industry, it is not expected to have a significant impact
on the pattern of foreign maritime trade.
1.11      The merchant fleet of Uruguay consists of some 24 vessels, which
carried about 18% of Uruguayan foreign trade in 1980. The gross registered
tonnage of the fleet is 185,000 tons, and the average vessel size is about
7,700 tons; the latter figure, however, is severely distorted by the
largest vessel, a 61,000 gross-ton (120,000 dead-weight-ton) tanker owned
by ANCAP, without which the average vessel size is reduced to 5,400 tons.
Uruguay's foreign trade is handled predominantly by foreign-flag liner
services which call at Montevideo on their way to and from Buenos Aires.
1.12      Potentially, Uruguay could be a major gateway for the foreign
trade of adjacent countries (Paraguay, northern Argentina, Bolivia and even
southern Brazil), and it is possible that inland traffic, beyond Uruguay's
borders, could be developed to a significant level. Factors that would



favor such development in the near future are the new rail link to
Argentina, over the dam at Saltc, Grande, and proposed international agree-
ments among the Cono Sur (Southern Cone) countries that would permit the
transfer of freight across borders in bond, simplifying customs
procedures. As a result, grain movements by unit train from the
Rosario/Santa Fe area (Argentina) and containerized cargo movements to and
from industrial centers in adjacent countries could find the port of
Montevideo an attractive transit point. This is one of the reasons for
proposing funds under the loan for a study of a multimodal transport
terminal as a complement to ongoing port investments (para 5.16).
1.13      Administracion Nacional de  Puertos (ANP) is the national organi-
zation entrusted with the administration of ports since 1916. In the last
few years, ANP has made considerable progress in certain areas, such as:
the removal of the penalty surcharge on international traffic that had been
levied by major shipping conferences, as a result of better port operations
and improved vessel dispatch since 1974-1976; a reduction in the total num-
ber of port employees, from about 8,000 in 1972 to some 4,500 in 1981; and
consistent reductions in total port operating costs in real terms, notwith-
standing increases in port traffic. Despite these improvements, ANP's
costs are still high, and the port needs improved efficiency, which is the
focus of a recent Bank loan (Loan 1798-UR).
(iv) Air Transport
1.14      Air transport has developed slowly in Uruguay, principally be-
cause of the concentration of population in the Montevideo area, the
country's easy topography resulting in dense networks of surface transpor-
tation, and the short distances involved. Domestic air traffic has de-
creased in recent years, with domestic passengers totaling 47,000 in 1980.
International traffic, mostly related to travel in the La Plata area,
totaled about 931,000 passengers in 1980. Uruguay has only one main
functioning international airport, Carrasco in Montevideo. Commercial
airline operations are dominated by Primeras Lineas Uruguayas de Navegacion
Aerea (PLUNA), a state-owned company. This airline recently replaced its
aging Boeing 727 aircraft with three new Boeing 737-200 aircraft having
much lower operating costs. Services to several domestic airports are
provided by Transportes Aereos Militares Uruguayas (TAMU).
1.15      Organizations involved in the administration of air transport
are Direccion Nacional de Aviacion Civil (DINAI AC), the lead Agency;
Direccion General de Infraestructura Aeronautica (DGIA); and Direccion
General de Aviacion Civil (DGAC). The National Defense Ministry controls
all these organizations, including PLUNA. DGAC controls air operations,
certification and licensing. DGIA controls construction, maintenance,
operation and administration of airports.
C. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.16      MTOP was created in 1967 and, in principle, has responsibility
for the development of a national transport policy, for transport coordin-
ation and for the establishment of tariffs for transport services. In the
past, the Ministry had some nominal jurisdiction over the investment plans
and operational policies and pracztices of the modal agencies; however, in
practice, their plans and policies are formulated independently of MTOP.



- 5 -
The National Directorate of Transportation (DNT), created in 1975 within
MTOP, provides the formal channel of contact from the operational agencies
through to the Secretaria de Planificacion, Coordinacion y Difusion
(SEPLACODI, the national planning body responsible for Uruguay's social and
economic planning and coordination at the macro level). SEPLACODI prepares
the three-year national plans and is assigned the responsibility for deter-
mining sectoral priorities. MTOP provides road transport investment and
expenditure proposals to SEPLACODI, but information on other modes
generally comes to SEPLACODI directly from the responsible agencies.
1.17      Sector management and intermodal coordination have been neglected
in the past. Lack of sectoral coordination has a long history, starting
early this century with the parallel and often competitive development of
the then foreign-owned railways and the national highway network. The al-
most complete absence, until the 1978 transport survey, of data on trans-
port costs and demand has prevented effective efforts in this regard.
1.18      In recognition of this deficiency, the UNDP-financed transport
survey was initiated in 1976 and assisted the Government in establishing
priority needs of the transport sector. As mentioned in paragraph 1.03,
strengthening of national transport planning was identified as one of the
four highest priority areas.
1.19      As a first step toward improving transport planning and coordina-
tion, the Conclave of December 1977 1/ created a Transport Advisory
Council (TAC) which is led by DNT and which includes AFE, PLUNA, DGIA, ANP
and SEPLACODI. This council prepared a national transport plan, taking
into account the 1978-1982 investment recommendations of the UNDP-financed
transport survey, and, after a period of inactivity, has now been
reactivated (para 1.20). The plan has served as general guidance, but has
not been continuously updated. The Transport Planning Unit (TPU) of DNT
within MTOP is presently assisting MTOP in preparing the draft for the
1983-1987 transport plan and acting as a secretariat for TAC. Technical
assistance to strengthen this unit started in late 1980 with financing
under a UNDP grant and under the Bank's Second Highway Project
(Loan 1689-UR). Included in its work program is a study to compare the
relative advantages of the various transport modes, initiated by the
transport sector survey, which would serve as the basis for coordination of
transport policies and investments.
1.20      The most recent Conclave (November 1981) decided upon a number of
policies regarding transport: (a) project analysis and investment planning
to include use of socio-economic studies; (b) MTOP to create a working
group for surface transport coordination consisting of DNT, AFE and
SEPLACODI, with TPU providing secretarial functions; (c) the Transport
Advisory Council to be reactivated; (d) prior comment from MTOP on all
public investment plans and international agreements in the surface trans-
port sector to be required; and (e) traffic regulations to be coordinated.
MTOP would also set adequate tariffs and regulate services for inter-
national transport, study the establishment of cargo terminals and take
other measures necessary to support new export markets through transport.
TPU was specifically mentioned in the Conclave as the unit responsible for
centralizing information requirements in the sector (paras 5.12 and 5.13).
1/   A policy-making meeting of leading civilian and military authorities.



- 6 -
II. THE ROAD TRANSPORT INDUSTRY
A. General
2.01      Road transport is the basic carrier of domestic freight traffic
(85% in 1980), as well as inter-urban passenger traffic (a total of 90% in
1980) in Uruguay. As a result of new and improved border connections, pri-
marily with Argentina, with bridges at Fray Bentos and Paysandu and the dam
at Salto Grande, road transport is; important also for international traf-
fic. Trade with Argentina and Brazil, which is almost exclusively handled
by road transport, represents 25-_30% of total foreign trade by value. For
international tourism, road transport has been the dominant mode with some
45% (480,000 arrivals in 1980) compared to 24% by water transport (mainly
by ferryboat to Colonia) and 31% by air.
B. Regulatory Framework
2.02      MTOP, through DNT, regulates and supervises road transport; how-
ever, it sets tariffs for road passenger services only. Truck tariffs are
not regulated in Uruguay, and competition causes wide seasonal and commod-
ity variations.  Transport associations publish tariffs, but, in practice,
the truckers negotiate actual rates. International transport of freight by
road within the former ALALC 2/ countries is regulated by the preferential
agreement of June 28, 1962. The agreement sets reciprocity conditions
which affect the transit of Uruguayan trucks in neighboring member
countries and that of neighboring members' trucks in Uruguay. It is
supplemented by regulations limiting the transit of foreign trucks in
Uruguay to certain itineraries and governing the use of international
bridges over the Uruguay River.   In general, regulation of international
road transport has not caused obse!rvable distortions in truck service and
tariffs.
2.03      The regulations for vehicle size and weight were last revised in
1975. Presently, the regulations are enforced through the operation of
five fixed and twelve portable scales. Complicated field procedures have
hampered effective enforcement. The maximum loads per axle allowed in
Uruguay are similar to those presently adopted by most Cono Sur countries.
Maximum vehicle load in Uruguay is 37 tons compared with 40 tons in Brazil
and 45 tons in Argentina. This difference in allowance has restricted the
Brazil-Argentina transit traffic through Uruguay.
C. Tariffs and Costs
2.04       Since truck tariffs are not regulated, no systematic review of
truck transport costs is made by DNT. However, the transport planning unit
in DNT has recently carried out a survey of costs for vehicles. The finan-
cial costs range from Np 0.53 per ton-km, fully loaded (US$.046), for heavy
vehicles to Np 1.58 per ton-km (US$.138) for light vehicles, which are
relatively high, considering the flat terrain, but which reflect high fuel
and vehicle costs. Fuel costs are high partly because of high ex-refinery
costs and partly because of high taxation, as explained in paragraph 3.21
2/   Latin America Free Trade Association (now ALADI).



following. Vehicle costs are high because of the small size and old age of
the typical vehicle.
D. The Vehicle Fleet
2.05      Vehicle fleet data are shown in Table 2.1.  In 1980, there were
close to 263,000 vehicles in Uruguay, of which 84% were light vehicles com-
pared to 15% trucks and 1% buses. The truck fleet has grown very slowly
(2.5% per year 1976-1980) despite the old age of the vehicles, averaging 15
years. About 85% of the trucks have a carrying capacity of less than five
tons each and 75% are gasoline-powered, illustrating the predominance of
small vehicles. The larger, more efficient trucks not only have a much
higher capacity, but also travel longer distances per year and have a
higher load factor. A major share of the transport effort is, therefore,
carried out by the more efficient larger units.
2.06      The automobile fleet is also, on average, 15 years old, but
statistics are incomplete because of vehicles not being deleted from the
registration list when unused. The import liberalization policy of the
Government resulted in imports of some 20,000 vehicles in the 1980-1981
period. About 22% of the fleet of cars and small trucks have been obtained
during the past three years, mainly in the Montevideo metropolitan area,
where some 16,000 of the above-mentioned 20,000 units are registered.   The
bus fleet is also old, with an average age of 16 years for interurban buses
and still more for urban buses. Continued liberalization of vehicle
imports is, therefore, important in order to increase the efficiency of the
fleet.
E. Organization of the Industry
2.07      Statistics on the trucking industry in Uruguay are scarce.
Government officials confirm that the industry is dominated by individual
owner-operators who, together with private truck operators (not-for-hire
common carriers), control an estimated 95% of the operational public truck
fleet. The other 5% is controlled by small transport companies which have
proliferated in recent years. A large proportion of the fleet (an estim-
ated 28%) is non-operational, i.e., older vehicles which are not being used
because of age and excess capacity but which have not been eliminated from
the registration list.
2.08      A small proportion of the companies and owner-operators involved
in for-hire trucking are members of the Uruguayan Motorcar Transport
Confederation (CUTA) for domestic services, or the International Transport
Confederation of Uruguay (CATIDU) for international or mixed services.
Statistics from these confederations show tlat, while in domestic trucking
the average number of vehicles per firm is between one and two, the average
for international service is almost 15 vehicles per firm. In addition,
trade associations have been formed by groups of operators, mainly for
specialized truck services such as fuel and refrigerated cargo transport.
F. Marketing Practices and Fleet Utilization
2.09      The generally free entry and operating policy of the Government
with regard to trucking and the intense competition engendered by the



- 8 -
predominance of owner-operators have resulted in a flexible level of
service for shippers. Up to now, road transport has been adequate to meet
local demand since arrangements are left to the direct individual
negotiations between shippers and truckers. The increasing age of the
fleet, however, has raised some concern over the ability of the industry to
generate sufficient capital to renew the fleet.
2.10      Although the average load factors for trucks are normal in com-
parison with those for other Cono Sur countries, the annual distance
traveled per vehicle is low, indicating significant excess capacity. The
load factors for domestic service average 50% per trip; for international
service, the load factors average 63% per trip. Annual kilometers per
vehicle range from 30,000 to 50,000 for the domestic and international
fleets respectively.  This low utiLization reflects the premature buildup
of capacity in the 1950s and explains, to some extent, how such an aged
fleet is still operating effectiveLy.
G. Potential Development of Internodal Transport Services
2.11      The potential for new and improved intermodal transport opera-
tions in Uruguay is mainly related to international freight movements, in-
cluding foods, with origins or dest:inations within the country and in-tran-
sit goods to or from other countries in the region, especially northern
Argentina, southern Brazil, Paraguay and Bolivia. Because of Uruguay's
strategic location, shipping interests in the country have long hoped to
develop transit traffic with transfers from ship to barge, rail car or
truck, or vice-versa, at Montevideo and free zones along the river. The
realization of such traffic potent-ial depends upon many factors, including
the development of freight consolidation facilities, the organization of an
effective freight-forwarding industry and the increased use of containers.
2.12      The Uruguayan Government, along with the other Cono Sur
Governments, has been pursuing the introduction of the TIR 3/ (1975)
Geneva Convention on international transport facilities and has been the
first one to adopt it. This Convention is directed at facilitating the
transfer of bonded freight across international borders and is crucial to
the promotion of in-transit cargo through Uruguay.
2.13      An intermodal terminal, with participation of the private sector,
AEE and ANP, would cater to the needs of freight consolidation for contain-
erized cargo, return loads for truc:ks and non-temporary and temporary
storage. It could be instrumental in developing the much needed freight-
forwarding expertise and would house such activities as freight control,
coordination and routing. A study to determine the feasibility of an
intermodal terminal is included in the proposed project (para 5.16).
3/   Transport International Routiers Convention, governed and administered
by the International Road Union (IRU) of Geneva.



- 9 -
III. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Highway Network
3.01      Uruguay has 9,800 km of national roads and some 40,000 km of de-
partmental roads. The national network is divided into three categories:
- the primary network (3,800 km): trunk roads radiating from
Montevideo to the principal development areas, as well as to
Argentina and Brazil. About one-third of the roads have an
asphalt concrete or cement concrete pavement; most of the
remaining roads have a light bituminous pavement.
- the secondary network (3,800 km): roads of regional impor-
tance; more than half have a light bituminous pavement.
- the tertiary network (2,200 km): roads of local importance;
only about 20% have a light pavement, with the remainder
unpaved.
3.02      Road development commenced in the 1930s, when the main network
barely reached 1,000 km; it tripled by 1940 and reached 7,500 km by 1950.
At that time, the basic network linking main economic and population
concentrations and making international connections was substantially
completed. The rate of expansion of the national network slowed consider-
ably in the 1950s, reaching about 8,800 km in 1960. Since then, the
limited investment resources have been directed more toward improving the
network than toward new construction. Following a similar pattern, the
secondary network was basically complete by 1950, and growth since has been
minimal (Table 3.1).
3.03      The extent of the national road network is adequate, and its
capacity, except for sections near Montevideo, is sufficient; the principal
problem is its seriously deteriorated pavement condition, notably on the
main international connections, which have considerable importance given
the country's reliance on trade with its neighbors (para 2.01). Lack of
timely periodic maintenance in the past has contributed significantly to
this deterioration, which also leads to high costs of road maintenance.
The departmental road network needs some expansion mainly in the southwest,
center, north and northwest departments, which are areas with high agricul-
tural potential. Only 2,000 km (5%) of the departmental network are paved;
4,000 km are gravel and 34,000 km are earth roads (Table 3.1). These
departmental roads are of low standard and poorly maintained and offer
restricted serviceability after heavy rains. Recently, the National
Highways Directorate (Vialidad) has been helping the Departments to improve
this situation.
B. Highway Administration
3.04      For administrative purposes, the highway network is classified
into national and departmental networks. Vialidad, the National Highways
Directorate within MTOP, is responsible for planning, constructing and
maintaining the national highway network through its headquarters in
Montevideo and nine regional offices. Outside the direct control of



- 10 -
Vialidad is the departmental road network, which is controlled by the
Municipal Administration of each Department (Intendencia) for construction
and maintenance. All highway construction by Vialidad is performed under
contract with private construction firms. Except for the major highways,
Vialidad prepares all detailed engineering and supervises construction.
3.05      Maintenance of nationa:L highways is performed by Vialidad, using
its own labor force and equipment. Vialidad lost a considerable number of
professional staff because of lack of construction activity during the
1950s and early 1960s, and these staffing problems have remained. Few
young engineers from the limited annual output of the universities are
attracted to Vialidad. In addition, Vialidad lost many engineers in the
40-to-50-year-old age group because of emigration and transfer to
consulting firms, leading to the continuation in service of engineers older
than 65 years. Vialidad lacks engineer-economists specialized in the
preparation of investment plans and in the economic evaluation of projects,
and its transit section lacks sufficient staff for traffic counts and other
transport issues.
3.06      Basic salaries are low, but MTOP succeeded in diminishing the
differential with the private sector by means of salary supplements. The
engineers in charge of the nine regions often receive extra compensations
by advising or directing the engineering departments of the Intendencias.
Because of this situation, the regional engineers are generally young and
vigorous and are reluctant to return to Montevideo.
3.07      With the imminent retirement of the older engineers, the need to
strengthen the planning, programing and traffic engineering functions of
Vialidad, and the need to build up the strength of the regions, the
restructuring and strengthening of Vialidad are urgent. This may also
require studying whether the coordination of highway projects, financed by
the Bank and IDB, should continue to be handled exclusively by MTOP, or
whether some of these functions should be transferred to Vialidad. On the
other hand, TPU, with advisory functions on transport, might be better
located in MTOP itself rather than in DNT. During negotiations, the
inclusion in the proposed project of the preparation, by July 31, 1983, of
a detailed Plan of Action for implementation of these changes and training
requirements was confirmed (para 5.14).
C. Highway Planning
3.08      Until recently, highway investment planning consisted of prepar-
ing the next year's budget request for consideration by SEPLACODI together
with an indication of the budget requirements for the years thereafter.
The biggest portion of the budget always consisted of the funds necessary
for works already under construction, either externally financed by the
Bank and IDB, or fully by MTOP. The draft budget would further include
works to be initiated, listed in a descending order of priority.
SEPLACODI, which establishes a maximum investment level each year, would
then cut the number of proposed works severely. In practice, this simple
system, based on engineering judgment and intimate knowledge of the highway
network, has been relatively successful and has provided leverage to MTOP
in the budget discussions with SEPLACODI as well as a defense against
complaints from interested parties when works perceived as necessary were
deleted by SEPLACODI.



- 11 -
3.09      TPU is currently finalizing a draft for the National Transport
Plan for 1983-1987 (para 1.19) which will outline the rationale for and the
division of funds between and within the various transport modes. This is
a major improvement in highway investment planning since it includes, for
the first time, a well founded long term sectoral investment plan. One of
the inputs is the study carried out by consultants under Loan 1689-UR which
identifies road sections and bridges in the primary network in urgent need
of reconstruction and strengthening.
3.10      The next step in improving the planning mechanism would be the
integration of these tools into the annual preparation of roll-over
five-year highway investment plans, of which a first draft for the period
1983-1987 has been recently prepared. The proposed project includes the
preparation by MTOP, annually by July, of a rolling plan for the next five
years, taking into account tentative investment levels provided by
SEPLACODI. In addition, MTOP would include new entries in the five-year
plan only after economic screening or feasibility studies would have been
carried out. One necessary input would be that systematic traffic counts
would be made. The arrangements for preparation of the five-year rolling
plans, the economic screening of the works, the traffic counts, and
consultations with the Bank on these subjects were confirmed during
negotiations (para 5.13).
D. Highway Engineering
3.11      Vialidad has used consulting engineers for large and medium size
works, relying either on Uruguayan firms or on their joint ventures with
foreign firms. Design work performed by consultants has, in general, been
satisfactory and has been the basis for the works in the Second Highway
Project on Route 8 and for the recent IDB Project for the accesses to
Montevideo. Consultant design work may lead to over-design in that it
is not intimately linked to the possibilities that a restricted budget
allows. In addition, consultants generally prefer the longer lasting
maximum engineering solution over an adequate intermediate solution which
is economically preferable when funds are limited and which bears somewhat
greater risks for premature deterioration and entails higher maintenance
costs. At present, in Uruguay, more than half of the total highway invest-
ment budget is spent on the ongoing works on Route 8 and the access roads
to Montevideo, leaving limited funds available for reconstruction and
rehabilitation of the remainder of the network. The design of the
reconstruction works under the proposed project would take the budget
constraints fully into account (para 5.04).
3.12      The detailed engineering for the reconstruction works under the
proposed project is being carried out by Vialidad, strengthened by con-
tracted professionals and assisted by consultants as required.
E. Highway Construction
3.13      All road construction by Vialidad is done under unit price con-
tracts after competitive bidding. National contractors are required to
register in MTOP's General Register of Contractors. Firms are classified
according to field of specialization, financial capacity, availability of
equipment, annual work capacity and past performance. The local contract-
ing industry is well developed. All contracts for the works of the Second



- 12 -
Highway Project were obtained by Uruguayan contractors in competition with
interested Brazilian and Argentine firms.
3.14      Supervision of internationally financed work has been carried out
in the past by consultants, with inspection services by Vialidad. Under
the proposed project, the relatively uncomplicated reconstruction works
would be supervised by the Vialidad districts, strengthened with contracted
personnel as necessary.
F. Highway Maintenance
3.15      Maintenance of all naticnal highways is performed by Vialidad,
using its own equipment and an establishment of 20 engineers, 30 techni-
cians, 1,700 permanent workers and 900 temporary workers. The equipment
fleet consists of 740 units, of which 550 are in good condition. Mainte-
nance is carried out by nine regional offices subdivided into 26 dis-
tricts. Each regional office is Ellocated its own maintenance equipment
and has a field workshop for routine equipment maintenance. The central
workshop, located in Colon (on the outskirts of Montevideo), performs all
major equipment repairs and is the national center for maintenance
training.
3.16      Routine maintenance is generally satisfactory.  Periodic mainte-
nance was insufficient in the past but has improved considerably in the
last five years, assisted by a study completed in 1977 for maintenance
requirements under an IDB-financed grant, by an IDB equipment loan of
US$16 million and by additional supplier-financed equipment purchases of
US$10 million. Training courses for foremen and equipment operators are
being implemented in headquarters and in the regions. Vialidad annually
prepares a detailed maintenance program with an evaluation of the condition
of all roads and a detailed description of all maintenance requirements for
each region.
3.17      Maintenance expenditures increased from US$23 million in 1976 to
US$35 million in 1982, of which about US$21 million, or US$5,700/km, is
intended for the primary roads and US$19 million, or US$3,200/km, for the
secondary and tertiary roads. Of total maintenance and rehabilitation
costs in 1982, about 40% will be devoted to labor, 30% to materials and
spare parts, 20% to contracted traLnsport and 10% to replacement of
equipment. The effective maintenaLnce operations which are presently
applied on the road system allow a high level of service for traffic
despite the deteriorated state of the road surfaces, but at a high cost of
maintenance. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would
continue to maintain the national network adequately, and that it intends
to allocate the required funds, which would be at least at the 1982 level
in real terms, unless otherwise agreed during consultation with the Bank.
During negotiations, the amount spent on routine maintenance was
established at Np 430 million (USI$35 million). A formula was agreed upon
to increase the amounts to be allocated in future years in line with
increased input prices.
G. Feeder Roads of the Intendencias
3.18      The Intendencias are responsible for about 40,000 km of feeder
roads. The capacity and capabilities of the 18 Intendencias vary, but all
have an infrastructure division responsible for public buildings and roads.



- 13 -
3.19      MTOP has assisted the Intendencias in improving selected feeder
roads in the past. This system has now been enlarged, and the Government
has initiated a 1982-1984 National Feeder Roads Program, with an extension
into 1985. The proposed project would help to finance the Government
contribution for the 1983-1985 period (para 5.10).
H. Highway Financing
3.20      MTOP receives its financing for capital and current expenditures
from various sources (Table 3.2), of which the MTOP share of the tax on
fuel and lubricants is the most important. In 1981, these taxes contrib-
uted 61% of revenues, other user charges added 14%, and transfers from the
general budget and from external loans amounted to 6% and 4% respectively.
The remaining 15% consisted of items such as sales, transfers and reim-
bursements. Total revenues slightly exceeded total expenditures in the
1979-1981 period. The current account budget represented, in 1981, about
31% of total expenditures; 3% was for transfers to the Intendencias and the
remaining 66% for capital investments, of which half was for new works
and reconstruction and the other half was for rehabilitation works
(Table 3.3). This pattern changed in 1982 because of the major construc-
tion works executed with the help of Bank and IDB loans. Total expendi-
tures increased to US$152 million, of which US$112 million is for invest-
ments, US$35 million for road maintenance and US$5 million for rehabilita-
tion works. MTOP's own revenues amounted to about US$106 million, whereas
US$27.5 million is being derived from external loan disbursements and
US$18.5 million from the general budget. Under the assumption that the
costs of civil works expressed in US dollars would decrease by 15-20% after
the recent devaluations and that the investment budget allocations would be
slightly reduced in real terms, so that MTOP would not require transfers
from the general budget, it is expected that the 1983 budget would amount
to US$80 million and US$35 million for investments and maintenance respec-
tively (paras 5.18-5.20).
3.21      The pump price of fuel is high by international standards; in
June 1982, it was US$0.46/liter for diesel oil and US$0.92 and US$1.13/
liter for regular and high-octane gasoline respectively (Table 3.4). The
world market CIF prices for Uruguay in the same period were US$0.265/liter
for diesel oil and US$0.28/liter for regular gasoline. The composition of
the pump price in percentages is as follows:
High-Octane                Regular
Gasoline                  Gasoline               Diesel-Oil
Refinery Price      62                         64                      77
MTOP                15                         15                      11
General Revenues   12                          12                      12
Energy Fund          9                          7                       _
Intendencias         2                          2                       -
100%                       100%                   100%
3.22      From the preceding paragraphs and Tables 3.2 and 3.3, it can be
deduced that MTOP's share of the taxes on fuel, lubricants and other user
charges (75% of MTOP's revenues) exceeds recurrent expenditures and rehab-
ilitation works (64%), while the new construction works and reconstruction
are financed by the remaining user taxes, external loans, budget support



- 14 -
and other income of MTOP.  It should be noted that the portion of fuel
taxes reverting to general revenues is about eight times larger than
transfers from the general budget. Therefore, user taxes on motor vehicles
exceed not only the marginal road maintenance cost caused by the vehicles,
but, in addition, cover the new construction and reconstruction expendi-
tures by a wide margin. However, trucks do not fully cover the cost of
usage, being subsidized by light gasoline-driven vehicles.
3.23      In addition to its responsibility for transport, and highways in
particular, MTOP is responsible for inland waterways and construction of
public buildings. Vialidad normally accounts for 80-85% of the total MTOP
budget.   In addition to a General Secretariat and Vialidad, MTOP has
Directorates of Architecture, Hydrography, Topography and Transportation.
I. Auditing
3.24      MTOP's internal accounting system has been reviewed and found
generally adequate for the identification and certification of Bank-
project-related financial transactions. Agreement concerning the format,
content, frequency and timing of financial reports was confirmed during
negotiations. Internal audit of MTOP's accounts is carried out by a
separate internal audit unit; external audit of all Government-related
transactions is the responsibility of the Tribunal de Cuentas de la
Republica, which has a special unit for foreign-financed projects. The
capacity and capability of the Tribunal de Cuentas to audit the proposed
project-related financial transactions have been reviewed, and it has been
determined that the Tribunal could conduct a satisfactory audit of the
Bank-financed transactions, with reports to be furnished to the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year. The requirement for an external
auditor was confirmed during negotiations.
IV. PAST BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
4.01      Bank Group involvement in the Uruguay transport sector began with
a highway loan in 1963 (Loan 324-UR, US$18.5 million equivalent), which
assisted in financing the improvement of Route 5 from the outskirts of
Montevideo to the Brazilian border (500 km); it also included components of
highway maintenance and a highway planning study. The works were
satisfactorily completed in 1971, but five years later than the appraisal
estimate; the delay was caused by incomplete engineering designs,
difficulties in obtaining satisfactory bids, and poor performance by some
contractors.   Cost overruns, mainly due to the five-year delay, were about
14%, but actual traffic data showed an average increase of about 50% over
the appraisal estimate for 1971.
4.02      Following a transport sector review by the Bank in 1974, the
Government obtained UNDP financing to carry out a comprehensive survey of
the national transport system, which was executed by consultants retained
by the Bank. This survey was instrumental in identifying the Second
Highway Project, approved by the Bank's Board in June 1979, and the port
project in execution.



- 15 -
4.03      The Second Highway Project (Loan 1689-UR, US$26.5 million and
US$5.0 cofinancing) is assisting the Government to reconstruct 146 km of
the most heavily traveled portion of Route 8, an important link with
Brazil; it is also helping to improve long-term programing and executing
capacity for road rehabilitation and reconstruction, as well as transport
planning and coordination. By December 1982, construction works were 50%
completed and are expected to be finalized early in 1984. The Transport
Planning Unit, in which UNDP and the Bank finance three experts, is prepar-
ing a National Transport Plan to be completed in draft during 1982; the
experts also provide high-level training and prepare guidelines for
economic evaluation of transport investments.
4.04      The latest Bank loan, also in 1979, for the transport sector
was for the modernization and upgrading of the port of Montevideo
(Loan 1798-UR).  It included modification of a wharf for use as a container
terminal, acquisition of cargo handling equipment, purchase of two harbor
tugs and two dredges with auxiliary equipment, and technical assistance to
ANP for project implementation, institutional strengthening and port
development planning. The project assists ANP in a substantial upgrading
of the service of the port of Montevideo at reduced operating costs. The
implementation has been delayed in order to meet covenants aimed at
institutional reform, such as the tariff system. Procurement of floating
craft and equipment is under way, and civil works are to start soon. Other
civil works in the project but not financed by the loan are well advanced.
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives and General Description
5.01      The proposed highway project would assist in the consolidation of
the forward momentum achieved under the Second Highway Project (1689-UR),
in which, in addition to the reconstruction of Route 8, consulting services
were financed for the preparation of a roads and bridges reconstruction
program and for technical assistance to the Transport Planning Unit which
is preparing the draft for the 1983-1987 National Transport Plan. The
proposed project would help to finance parts of MTOP's Five-Year Highway
Investment Program (para 3.10) and would focus on improvements that would
strengthen the entire road system, including, for the first time, a
National Feeder Roads Program. The project would consolidate and
strengthen the planning, programing and executing capacity and capability
of MTOP and Vialidad. Additionally, it would strengthen the role of
Montevideo as center for transit traffic by helping in the reconstruction
of sections of key road corridors to Argentina and Brazil and by financing
a study on intermodal transport, including the establishment of a freight
terminal near Montevideo.
5.02      The project would consist of the following components:
(a) Road and Bridge Reconstruction
- Civil works for the reconstruction of about 115 km of
road sections in international links and bridges on
these sections;



- 16 -
- Civil works for the replacement of three bridges, including
their road accesses; and
- Civil works for the reconstruction of roads and bridges
to be presented to the Bank before the end of 1983 with
their economic evaluation.
(b) Road Rehabilitation
- Civil works for the rehabilitation of five road sections,
totaling about 185 km; and
- Civil works for the rehabilitation of roads to be presented
to the Bank before the end of 1983 with their economic
evaluation.
(c) Feeder Roads
Civil works for the rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of feeder
roads in the 1983-1985 national program to be executed by the
Intendencias.
(d) Traffic Safety
Horizontal and vertical signalization on about 250 km of road
sections.
(e) Institution Building and Technical Assistance
- Strengthening of the planning and programing capabilities
of MTOP, including the annual preparation of a five-year
highway investment plan based on an economic assessment;
- Action program for the restructuring of Vialidad, including
training requirements;
- Consulting services for support to MTOP in the transport
and highways field;
- Consulting services to review policies and regulations for
intermodal freight transport and to study the technical and
economic feasibility for the establishment of an intermodal
freight terminal near Montevideo; and
- Consulting services to establish a cost accounting system in
AFE.
(i) Road Reconstruction and Bridge Construction
5.03      With financing under Loan 1689-UR, consultants, in close coopera-
tion with Vialidad and TPU, identified road sections and bridges on inter-
national corridors in urgent need of reconstruction and strengthening. The
recommendations of the consultants form the basis for the reconstruction
element in MTOP's Five-Year Highway Investment Program, of which important
sections are included in the proposed project and other sections may be
included in a loan package being discussed with IDB.



- 17 -
5.04      Main road corridors in Uruguay generally consist of outmoded and
often very deteriorated road sections and narrow, frequently old bridges.
Vialidad has still managed, at elevated maintenance costs, to keep the
roads in a condition that provides traffic with reasonable service levels.
However, further delays in reconstruction would lead to an acceleration of
the deterioration process that would cause further increases in maintenance
and vehicle operating costs, higher future reconstruction costs and a
decrease in vehicle speeds with related time value losses. Prompt inter-
vention would forestall the occurrence of these cost increases and
disbenefits. The Five-Year Highway Investment Program does not allow for
improving all economically justified road sections to adequate standards in
the 1983-1987 period. Based on economic priorities, selection has been
made regarding which road sections and bridges should be improved first.
In view of constraints in funding and because of relatively modest traffic
levels, MTOP, in designing the roads, would make maximum use of the
existing alignment and of the existing pavement structure.
5.05      The proposed project contains the reconstruction of road sections
and bridges in two international corridors:
(a)  the connection of Montevideo with Argentina through the ferry at
Colonia, the bridges at Fray Bentos and Paysandu and the dam at
Salto along Routes 1, 2, 24 and 3. In the proposed project are
included:
- the reconstruction of section Km 51-128 of Route 1, the most
extensively used road in Uruguay;
- the reconstruction of a small section Km 80-90 of Route 3,
south of San Jose;
- the replacement of an old bridge over the Caballada River on
Route I near Colonia; and
- the replacement of an old bridge over the Bellaco River between
Fray Bentos and Paysandu on Route 24.
(b)  the eastern connection with Brazil along Routes 9 and 10.  In the
proposed project are included:
- the reconstruction of section Km 67-95 of Route 9; and
- the replacement of an old bridge on Route 10 near Punta del
Este.
(ii) Road Rehabilitation
5.06      Vialidad has an annual program of about US$50 million of
rehabilitation works on its primary and secondary networks. Since
available funds are limited, there has been a tendency to under-invest in
works of this type, leading to a short useful life of the investments.  In
order to stimulate a more rational management of this important category of
works, the proposed project would include the rehabilitation of five
priority sections:



- 18 -
-  Routes 12 and 23:  tot;al length 90 km, providing an asphalt
concrete pavement on deteriorated roads; the roads would also be
important  as an alternative route during reconstruction of
Route 1.
-  Routes 13 and 15:  total length 35 km, providing a base course
and a double surface bituminous pavement on roads serving the
important rice-growing area in eastern Uruguay; and
- Route 5: various sections on Route 5 between Tacuarembo and
Rivera, totaling 60 km, providing an asphalt concrete overlay on
sections with light pavement which have heavy export-oriented
traffic to Brazil.
(iii) Roads and Bridges to be Defined
5.07      About 15% of the works to be executed under the proposed project
have not yet been defined, although several candidate works have been
identified.  The advantage of this procedure is that it gives MTOP time to
further develop its Five-Year Plan, to refine its selections depending upon
the rate of deterioration of the various road sections, and to await the
trends in inflation and exchange rates. By December 31, 1983, MTOP would
indicate which road sections and bridges it intends to include in the
proposed project and seek Bank approval; their documentation would include
the economic evaluation of the proposed works. Confirmation of this
procedure was obtained during negotiations.
(iv) National Feeder Roads Program
5.08      The National Feeder Roads Program (1982-1984) was approved during
the Conclave of Piriapolis in November 1981. The objective is national
support for the rehabilitation of feeder roads carried out by the Intend-
encias. About US$7 million would be allocated annually as Government
contribution representing 50% of the cost of the rehabilitation of about
1,000 km per year; the program is thus a relatively modest one, considering
that about 40,000 km of feeder roads are maintained by the 18 rural
Intendencias. The program is additional to the works carried out by the
Intendencias exclusively with their own resources. Works are generally
carried out by force account with subcontracting of various tasks and often
with the contribution of interested landowners through the supply of
manpower or equipment. The Government has requested Bank support for the
program as a whole.  In October 1981, a questionnaire was prepared to be
filled out by the Intendencias in support of their requests to the
Government for financial contribution, supplying information on the
proposed improvements and their costs, production data and the economic
importance of the road. All Intendencias responded, and the data are
generally acceptable.
5.09      During the appraisal mission, the proposed program was reviewed
and found to represent adequately the priorities for feeder roads through-
out the country. The modus operandi of the Government and Bank involvement
in the National Feeder Roads Program were agreed and summarized in the
subsequent Guidelines, which include the list of the various subprojects
which are programed to be executed, and which were established in a



- 19 -
Ministerial letter. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it
would apply the Guidelines in future selection and approval of
subprojects. The most important provisions are:
- requests by the Intendencias for financial support of a sub-
project to be based on socio-economic data, including present
and projected production data, function and condition of the
road, and estimated costs;
- approval by MTOP and subsequent Presidential resolution,
depending upon whether the request is in accordance with the
Guidelines;
- signing of a contract (Convenio) on each subproject between
MTOP and the Intendencia, with prior approval of the Tribunal
de Cuentas;
- each Convenio to establish the location and minimum design
standards appropriate for the road section and the agreed
Government contribution;
- no additional subproject to be initiated by an Intendencia
prior to the completion of a previously financed subproject;
- road sections in one development area generally to total no
more than 60 km;
- the Vialidad districts to provide supervision and technical
assistance;
- a construction completion report to be prepared by the Vialidad
district engineer, including statements on the quality and
costs of the work; and
- the Intendencias to provide to MTOP an annual maintenance
program for their networks and for the subprojects financed by
the Government in particular.
5.10      The 1982 program is in full execution.  Agreement was reached
with MTOP, confirmed during negotiations, that the Bank would help to
finance the 1983 and 1984 programs and an extension of the program into
1985. By December 31, 1983, MTOP would indicate which road sections it
intends to include in the 1985 program and seek Bank approval; their
documentation would include the economic evaluation of the proposed works.
The cost of the 1983-1985 program amounts to US$40 million, of which MTOP
would contribute 50% or US$20 million. The program is based on the
improvement of 3,000 km at an average cost of US$13,000/km.
(v) Traffic Safety
5.11      Traffic safety on the roads in Uruguay is hampered by several
factors, including excessive speeds, pavement and shoulder conditions,
narrow bridges, and incomplete horizontal and vertical signalization. The
proposed project includes various elements which would improve this situa-
tion by reconstructing and rehabilitating road sections and replacing



- 20 -
bridges.  In addition, the proposed project would contain the horizontal
and vertical signalization of about 250 km of roads. Also, MTOP would make
use of experts financed under consultants' services to advise on road
safety measures and procedures (para 5.15).
(vi) Institution Building
5.12      As indicated in paragraph 1.20, the 1981 Conclave concluded that
MTOP should coordinate all surface transport modes and comment on all
related investment plans and international agreements, also in the railway
subsector. The proposed project includes a condition that MTOP would be
given the opportunity to comment on all investments in surface transport
prior to their approval and a consultation clause providing the opportunity
to exchange views between MTOP and the Bank on transport coordination and
land transport investment programs. This arrangement was confirmed during
negotiations.
5.13      As indicated in Chapter III, the road and bridges reconstruction
study and the National Transport Plan being prepared by TPU provide the
building stones for improved planning and programing. In order to consol-
idate these achievements supported under the Second Highway Project, the
proposed project includes the annual preparation by MTOP of five-year
highway investment plans based on a balanced assessment of the needs in
maintenance, road and bridge rehabilitation, and reconstruction and
construction of national roads and of the National Feeder Roads Program to
the Intendencias, while taking into account the fiscal constraints.
Parallel to that would be the economic screening and, if need be, feasibil-
ity studies of all major proposed works which would enter into the
five-year plan. To that end also, the traffic section in Vialidad should
be expanded in order to provide reLiable traffic counts. During
negotiations, the annual preparation of the five-year plans, the economic
screening, the traffic count procedures and the consultations on these
subjects were confirmed.
5.14      In paragraphs 3.04 through 3.07, the staffing problems of MTOP
and Vialidad are discussed. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
that MTOP would prepare, by July 31, 1983, a Plan of Action for
restructuring and strengthening MTOP and Vialidad, including training
requirements and a decision on where to locate TPU within the MTOP
structure.
5.15      MTOP and Vialidad require additional managerial, technical and
economic expertise, such as advice on organizational matters, management
system approaches to optimize maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruc-
tion expenditures and road safety, and research work in defining sources
and quality of construction materials. Rather than contracting consulting
firms for these tasks, agreement has been reached, confirmed during
negotiations, to include US$400,000 in the proposed project, through which
short-term expertise and research iLnvestigations could be financed.
5.16      As indicated in Chapter II, the proposed project includes a study
on intermodal transport with the objectives of reviewing Government
policies and regulations; recommending measures for increasing the
efficiency of road and intermodal domestic and international transport in
Uruguay; and conducting the economic, financial and technical studies for



- 21 -
the establishment of an intermodal freight consolidation center up to the
preliminary engineering stage.  The study, which would be carried out by
consultants in MTOP, would be divided into two parts: the first stage to
study the market for services offered by the proposed terminal and to
assess the technical and economic feasibility; and the second stage, if
feasibility is confirmed, to prepare detailed regulatory, institutional and
financial arrangements and to provide preliminary engineering. Draft terms
of reference for the intermodal study have been agreed by MTOP (Annex 1).
The foreign exchange cost of the study is estimated at US$250,000. During
negotiations, the inclusion of the study in the project and its terms of
reference were confirmed.
5.17      As indicated in Chapter I, the financial and physical condition
of the railways and the coordination of their investments and operations
with the remainder of the transport system are of major concern to the
Government. TPU, in analyzing the performance of the railways, concluded
that existing railway accounting practices do not provide a good basis for
adequate cost-based pricing, which is essential for future policy decisions
concerning the relative position of railway transport in Uruguay. There-
fore, the proposed project includes technical assistance to AFE to estab-
lish a cost-accounting system (Annex 2); US$150,000 of Bank financing is
involved in a two-year period. An agreement between MTOP and AFE would be
required, the signature of which would form a condition for disbursement
for these expenditures. This technical assistance was confirmed during
negotiations.
B. Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements
5.18      The works and services to be financed under the proposed project
would form part of MTOP's 1983-1987 Five-Year Highway Investment Plan, of
which a first draft has been prepared recently (para 3.10). The basic
assumption is that investment levels in real terms in US dollars would
remain constant over the following years at about US$80 million per year,
assuming that the costs of civil works expressed in US dollars would
decrease by 15-20% in the wake of recent currency realignments. Table 5.1
shows a summary of the works in execution and programed to be initiated,
divided into works partially financed by the Bank and by IDB and those with
exclusive MTOP financing.
5.19      The Bank-financed works on Route 8 (Loan 1689-UR) and the IDB-
financed access roads to Montevideo would still require considerable funds
in 1983 and 1984, which implies that, except for the feeder roads program,
only limited funds would be available in 1983 to start works on the
proposed project. MTOP is also in discussion with IDB for a new highway
loan, directed at road reconstruction and bridges, which could come on
stream gradually from 1984 ownward; tentatively, financing toward a package
of US$140 million is being considered as part of the 1983-1987 Five-Year
Plan.
5.20      In the Five-Year Plan, about two-thirds of the works would be
partially financed by the Bank, IDB and cofinancing with commercial banks;
assuming 60% participation, the external financial support would amount to
40% of the cost of the plan, while 60% would be financed by MTOP.  The
Bank's share for the five-year period would be 15%. MTOP's share of the
investment budget, on average US$48 million annually, together with an



- 22 -
estimated US$35 million maintenance budget, would require US$83 million
annually to be financed locally. About US$80 million is expected to be
derived from earmarked user charges; under these assumptions, the transfer
from the Ministry of Economy and Finance would be kept to a minimum to
balance MTOP expenditures. In case revenues of earmarked funds would
exceed the expectations, the investment and maintenance budgets could be
slightly increased.  In case revenues expressed in US dollars would be
lower than expected, the execution of part of the investment program would
have to be postponed, or general revenues obtained.
5.21      A summary of the estimated costs of the project and its proposed
financing is given on the following page, and a detailed cost breakdown
is given in Table 5.2. The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$137 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$70 million. The
Government would finance US$47 miLlion equivalent and the Intendencias
US$20 million. The Bank loan would finance US$45 million, or 33% of total
costs against a foreign exchange component of 51%. Cofinancing funds of
US$25 million would be used to close the financing gap. Cofinancing would
be used for part of the road reconstruction and rehabilitation works in the
project, whereas Bank funds would be used to finance the feeder roads, the
technical assistance, and the remainder of the reconstruction and rehabili-
tation works.
5.22      During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would
finance the local cost component of US$47 million. Furthermore, it would
be a condition for disbursement for the reconstruction and rehabilitation
works that the Government has reached agreement with one or more co-lenders
securing the amount of US$25 million equivalent for part of the financing
of these works.
5.23      The cost estimates are based on July 1982 prices adjusted for the
exchange rate changes following the flotation in December 1982. The
estimated cost for the reconstruction and rehabilitation works is based on
preliminary engineering and current unit prices for similar works. Cost
estimates for the feeder roads are based on the costs of similar works
recently carried out by the Intendencias. Cost estimates for the
consulting services are based on recent contracts or man-month rates for
similar services and range between US$3,000 and US$10,000 per man-month
(which includes basic salary, social benefits and overhead) for technicians
of different grades among Uruguayan and international experts. Except for
the feeder roads, a contingency allowance of 15% was included to cover
possible increases in construction quantities. About 23% of the project
base cost plus physical contingencies has been allowed for foreign and
local price increases assuming exchange rate adjustments to compensate for
the difference in local and foreign inflation, and based on inflation rates
decreasing from 8% in 1983 to 6% in 1986.



URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate and Financing
Foreign                       Participation
US$ million (Dec. 1982)  Exchange       Bank    Cofinancing MTOP Intendencias
Local   Foreign   Total  Component  US$m   %         US$m    US$m    US$m
I - Road and Bridge        14.7      22.0     36.7       60%     12.0  33       10.0    14.7       -
Reconstruction
II - Road Rehabilitation   11.7       17.5     29.2       60%      9.5  33        8.0    11.7       -
III - Feeder Roads           28.0      12.0     40.0       30%      12.0  30        -       8.0    20.0
IV - Traffic Safety          0.7       1.0      1.7       60%       1.0  60        -       0.7      -
V - Technical Assistance   0.2        0.8      1.0       80%       0.8  80         -      0.2       -
Base Cost (December 1982)      55.3      53.3    108.6       49%      35.3  33       18.0    35.3    20.0
Contingencies
(a) Physical 15% 1/           4.1       6.2     10.3        -       3.5   -        2.7      4.1      -
(b) Price 23% 2/              7.6      10.2     17.8        -       5.9   -        4.3      7.6
Total Project Cost             67.0      69.7    136.7       51%      44.7  33       25.0    47.0       -
Front-End Fee                    -        0.3      0.3      100%       0.3 100         -       -        -
Total Financing Required       67.0      70.0    137.0 3/   51%       45.0  33       25.0    47.0    20.0
1/ 10% on all items, except feeder roads.
2/ 8% in 1983, declining to 6% in 1986 on foreign and local costs, except feeder roads.
3/ Taxes and duties US$13.7 million; total project costs without taxes, US$123.3 million.



- 24 -
5.24      Estimates of the foreign exchange component for civil works are
based on an analysis of major construction costs (fuel, asphalt, steel,
cement and equipment). It was assumed that 25% of the reconstruction works
would be carried out by firms of bordering countries, either independently
or in joint venture with local firms. A foreign exchange component of 60%
has been estimated for the reconstruction and for the rehabilitation
works. The foreign exchange component of the feeder roads has been esti-
mated at 30% of total costs or 60% of the Government participation. Past
experience indicates that 80% of the costs of consulting services would be
in foreign currencies.
5.25      Disbursements of the Bank loan (Table 5.3) would be made as
follows:
(a) 33% for reconstruction and rehabilitation works;
(b) 60% of road signalization works;
(c) 60% of the Government contribution for each eligible subproject
in the National Feeder Roads Program. Withdrawal applications
would be in the forma of statements of expenditures covering the
transfer of funds from MTOP to an Intendencia for a specific
subproject on the basis of the related agreement signed by MTOP
and the Intendencia. The Bank would disburse only after the
road section has been completed. Supporting documentation
would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by
MTOP and made available for inspection by the Bank during
project supervision mission. It would be subject to the annual
auditing; and
(d) 80% of local and 100% of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance and training.
Standard disbursement profiles indicate that, in the LAC Region, a seven-
year period is required for highway projects to obtain full disbursement.
However, a five-year period is considered sufficient, thus disregarding the
tail-end of the standard disbursement table, in which only 15% of disburse-
ments take place (Table 5.3).
C. Execution and Procurement
5.26      The execution of the project would be the responsibility of
MTOP. Vialidad would be executing agency for the reconstruction and rehab-
ilitation works (Table 5.4), the Intendencias for the feeder roads, TPU for
the intermodal study and AFE for the establishment of a railway accounting
system. MTOP would handle the technical assistance fund directly.
5.27      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (July 1980 Edition). Civil works for
reconstruction (about US$37 million) would be carried out on the basis of
unit price contracts awarded in accordance with international competitive
bidding procedures. For bidding purposes, the works would be divided into
six lots of road works. The estimated value of individual contracts would
range from US$4 to US$8 million for the road works. The cost/km is about
US$290,000. Prequalification of Uruguayan contractors is based on MTOP's



- 25 -
General Register of Contractors.  For foreign contractors, notices on the
program as a whole would be published in Development Forum and sent to
embassies.  In addition, notices for specific tenders would be advertised
locally and sent to the embassies.  Interested foreign contractors should
ask to be put on the mailing list for notices of the availability of
bidding documents for specific tenders. Foreign contractors would be
subject to post-qualification.
5.28      Procurement for the road rehabilitation works (about US$29 mil-
lion), the bridges and the road signalization works would be on the basis
of unit price contracts awarded in accordance with local competitive bid-
ding procedures, while giving foreign contractors the opportunity to bid.
The estimated value of each of the rehabilitation contracts would be
between US$2 and US$5 million. The cost/km is about US$90,000.
5.29      Since the Intendencias have their own equipment, execution of the
feeder roads (US$40 million) would generally be by force account with
subcontracting of various tasks and assistance of the neighboring
landowners. The Bank would finance 60% of the MTOP contribution to the
Intendencias.  In order to allow the 1983 program to start, the Bank
agreed, during negotiations, to the retroactive financing of feeder road
works up to US$1 million for expenditures after January 1, 1983.
D. Semi-Annual Consultations and Project Monitoring
5.30      With regard to project monitoring, the Government confirmed
during negotiations that it would prepare quarterly reports for the Bank
providing information on: (a) the progress of detailed engineering, tender
and contracting schedules; (b) the progress of execution of Bank-financed
construction and rehabilitation works; (c) the selection, status of
contracts, progress of execution and expenditures of the proposed feeder
roads program; (d) the status of disbursement requests; and (e) the
schedule of estimated withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan.
5.31      Furthermore, in order to monitor progress on the objectives of
the proposed project, the Government confirmed during negotiations that
MTOP would hold semi-annual meetings with Bank staff around March and
September of each year during project implementation. The Government
should prepare reports on the following in accordance with the indicated
schedule and any other reports that the Bank may reasonably request from
time to time:
(a) By September of each year, MTOP would report on:
-  proposed update of Five-Year Highway Investment Program;
- proposed recurrent and investment budgets for upcoming year;
- proposed works to be executed in National Feeder Roads Pro-
gram for following year;
- status of implementation of the restructuring and strength-
ening of MTOP and Vialidad;



- 26 -
-  progress of improved traffic count program; and
-  progress in the selection and evaluation procedures in
Vialidad.
(b) By March of each year, MTOP would report on:
-  actual maintenance expenditures of previous year;
-  actual reconstruction and rehabilitation expenditures of
previous year;
-  actual feeder roads expenditures of previous year;
-  maintenance operations in previous year;
-  maintenance, reconstruction and rehabilitation budgets for
ongoing year;
-  update of five-year investment plan;
-  activities of TPU in previous year and program for ongoing
year;
-  use of technical assistance funds during previous year and
expected use in ongoing year;
-  status of road user charges and fuel prices;
-  update of investment objectives for each of the transport
subsectors; and
-  status of rail and road competition.
E. Risks
5.32      Past experience with road projects in Uruguay. has shown that
delays have been encountered in the tender and contracting stages as well
as in the construction stage of project implementation. The arrangements
and the schedule for the tendering phase of the project were carefully
reviewed and agreed.
5.33      Another risk is that fiscal constraints would require reductions
in the projected investment levels for future years from the levels
currently envisaged. An examination of the financial resources of MTOP
indicates that there is a considerable cushion to reduce investments
without affecting the execution of the project. The feeder road program is
already in full execution.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. General
6.01      The Bank's main overall objective for participation in the trans-
port sector is to continue to encourage an export-oriented strategy for
goods and services. This objective has been pursued consistently



- 27 -
in previous Bank projects (Route 5 to Brazil in the north in 1963, Route 8
to Brazil to the northeast and Montevideo Port in 1979). A large part of
this project would deal with the main export corridor to the west,
connecting with Argentina and Paraguay and the eastern corridor to Brazil.
The major problem for the sector, as outlined earlier (para 3.03), is not
the extension of the networks or their lack of capacity, but is, rather,
the high cost of operation of services by the various modes due to outmoded
infrastructure and an old transport fleet. The age of vehicles is
gradually being improved by purchase of better transport equipment as a
result of liberalized importation regulations. Modernization of
infrastructure would require careful planning to optimize investments un6-r
budget constraints even with continued foreign assistance. Furthermore,
prerequisite for agricultural diversification and increased value of
production is the upgrading of the extensive but low-standard network of
rural roads, now being actively pursued by the Government through the
Intendencias (para 5.08). These overall objectives for strengthening the
sector play an important role in a continuing readjustment of Uruguay to an
economy more open to liberalized trade and sustained growth.
6.02      The main components of the project, i.e., reconstruction of the
major highway links to Argentina and Brazil, rehabilitation of selected
roads and support to the National Feeder Roads Program, are distinct in
scope and objectives and have been analyzed separately. All elements form
part of a well balanced highway investment program, and the feeder roads
program closely reflects the Government's rural development policy. Insti-
tutional improvements, as indicated in paragraphs 5.12 to 5.17, are a very
important complement to the project, but it has not been possible to
evaluate their effects quantitatively.
B. Road Selection
6.03      Selection of the contents of the proposed project developed
through supervision missions over the past years as well as the work of
Vialidad, TPU and the transport survey (para 1.18). The need to include
rehabilitation of feeder roads was discussed frequently and gradually
evolved into a National Feeder Roads Program approved by the latest
Conclave in November 1981. The selection of the reconstruction works on
Routes 1, 3 and 9, the rehabilitation of Route 5, and the bridges on Routes
1, 24 and 10 are based on the recommendations of the highway and bridge
reconstruction study (para 3.09). The reconstruction of the high priority
Route 2 and the replacement or widening of many other bridges are being
discussed with IDB as the basis for a proposed loan. In the above-
mentioned study, about 800 km of primary highways were preselected, of
which about 400 km were considered to be of the highest priority for future
engineering and reconstruction. Parallel to this selection, the consul-
tants also identified 100 bridges for reconstruction, based on their struc-
tural deterioration and geometric standards. The selections of the
rehabilitation works on Routes 12 and 23 and on Routes 13 and 15 were iden-
tified by Vialidad as being of the highest priority for improvement. The
selection of all roads and bridges took into account the general objectives
outlined above.
6.04      The connection to Argentina, in addition to cargo traffic, serves
very important tourist traffic to the main resort areas. The sections of



- 28 -
Routes 1 and 3 included in the project contain the earliest major roads in
the country, with old cement concrete paved sections and old, too narrow
bridges. Although the standards were high at the time of construction,
present vehicle weights and speeds make reconstruction necessary. More-
over, this route serves the most densely populated and productive agricul-
tural region in Uruguay, the littoral departments of the southwest, with a
population of about 330,000. Two of the rehabilitation projects (Routes 12
and 23) serve the same region and would be improved first in order to be
used as an alternative route for part of the through traffic during
reconstruction of Route 1.
6.05      The works on Route 9 and the bridge on Route 10 serve heavy truck
traffic to the eastern connection with Brazil, and the repaving of sections
of Route 5 north of Tacuarembo would strengthen the existing light pavement
to cope with heavy truck traffic on the most important link with Brazil.
The rehabilitation works on Routes 13 and 15 serve the rice-growing area of
Rocha (population about 60,000).
C. Traffic Development
6.06      Data on highway traffic are not collected continuously in
Uruguay, except at the toll collection stations and international bridges.
Traffic counts were made by the consultants preparing the highway and
bridge reconstruction plan (para 6.03), which, although limited in scope,
are adequate for the purposes of this evaluation. The road corridor to
Argentina has a slightly larger growth than average for Uruguay because of
the new bridge connections with Argentina.  Continuation of this trend,
while taking into account other factors such as fuel consumption, has been
adopted for the economic evaluation, with traffic growth ranging from 2.9%
to 4.0% per year (Table 6.1). For the feeder roads program, roads have
been identified with different traffic characteristics and with road
standards having limited embankment width corresponding to traffic. The
evaluation has been based on information concerning population, cattle
herds and agricultural production in the areas of influence of these roads.
D. National Feeder Roads Program
6.07      Intendencias with rural roads will participate in a National Pro-
gram of about 1,000 km of road works nationwide per year. The selection
process has been described previously (para 5.08). On the basis of
anticipated production changes as a result of these road improvements and
vehicle operating cost savings for existing traffic, preliminary estimates
of benefits were made for each Intendencia. A gradual increase over five
years was anticipated in the assessment of benefits to allow for production
changes. Although estimates were made for each road section, data were
incomplete in a few cases and had to be extrapolated from areas with
similar conditions. With relatively homogeneous agriculture and
cattle-raising in large areas of Uruguay, these limitations would not alter
the justification of the overall program, but the accuracy for individual
road sections is too uneven to calculate separate rates of return. A rate
of return was estimated at 25% for the program as a whole. A decrease of
25% of benefits would lower this rate of return to 20%.



- 29 -
6.08       In the agreements between MTOP and the Intendencias, the detailed
road standards would be determined. An incentive to rehabilitate the
highest priority feeder roads first is that each Intendencia would be
allowed to have only one road section at a time under construction and that
each road suibproject would be limited in length. Altogether, more than
100,000 persons live in the areas affected by these feeder roads. Of a
total of 122 road sections in the current program, about 42 are impassable
more than 60 days per year, and another 40 are impassable between 20 and 60
days per year.  The social aspects have not been quantified, but are very
significant in services such as education and medical attention.
6.09      The production changes encouraged by better roads depend upon
the potential of the area. For instance, there could be shifts from cattle
being raised for meat to milk production, and changes from cattle to agri-
cultural production might take place. In the northeast, this change would
mean increased rice and soya-bean growing; in the north, grains such as
corn would be more prevalent, and, in the northwest, there would be
increased development of rice and sugarcane, where temperature and other
conditions would permit such a change.  In the more developed west and
southwest, potential production is already more diversified; the basic
production is intensive cattle-raising (partly for milk production),
combined with grains, citrus fruits and potatoes.
E. Project Returns
6.10      The main direct benefit of the project roads and their improve-
ment is a reduction of transport cost, mainly for trucks, as described in
Annex 3.  Most trucks in Uruguay are owner-operated with virtually free
pricing, as indicated earlier (para 2.02). Transport cost savings for the
project as a whole would accrue to a widespread group of beneficiaries
since, as a result of the liberal truck pricing in Uruguay, cost reductions
would largely be passed on to a diversified group of transport users. For
the main road and bridge improvements, significant savings to the Govern-
ment from reduced maintenance costs would also occur. For the various
project components, the estimated rates of return range from 15% to 40% on
the basis of the total of costs and benefits indicated in Tables 6.2 and
6.3. The overall estimated rate of return for the project is 26%.
F. Sensitivity Analysis
6.11      A sensitivity test indicates that estimated rates of return would
be between 11% and 32% for 20% lower real term benefits and between 11% and
34% for 20% higher investment costs. First year returns would be 13% or
higher. Also, switching values have been calculated for the different road
sections to determine what changes in parameters would decrease the rate
of return to 12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Uruguay
(Table 6.4).



- 30 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  MTOP to prepare, by July 31, 1983, the Plan of Action for
restructuring and strengthening MTOP and Vialidad, including
training requirements aLnd a decision on where to locate TPU
within the MTOP structure (paras 3.07 and 5.14);
(b)  MTOP to consult with the Bank on the annual preparation of the
five-year plans, the economic screening, and the traffic count
procedures (paras 3.10 and 5.13);
(c)  the Government to continue to maintain the national network
adequately and to allocate the required funds, which would be at
least at the 1982 level, in real terms, unless otherwise agreed
during consultation with the Bank (para 3.17);
(d)  format, content, frequency and timing of financial reports
(para 3.24);
(e)  an external auditor to conduct a satisfactory audit of the
Bank-financed transactions, with reports to be furnished to
the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(para 3.24);
(f)  by December 31, 1983, MTOP to submit to the Bank for approval the
list of additional road. sections and bridges to be included in
the proposed project, together with their economic evaluation
(para 5.07);
(g)  the Guidelines to be applied in the selection and approval of
subprojects under the feeder roads program (para 5.09);
(h)  by December 31, 1983, MTOP to submit to the Bank for approval the
list of road sections to be financed under the National Feeder
Roads Program in 1985, together with their economic evaluation
(para 5.10);
(i)  the project to include a condition that MTOP would be given the
opportunity to comment on all investments in surface transport
prior to their approval and a consultation clause providing the
opportunity to exchange views between MTOP and the Bank on
transport coordination and land transport investment programs
(para 5.12);
(j)  technical assistance to be included in the proposed project,
through which short-term expertise and research investigations
could be financed (para 5.15);
(k)  inclusion of the intermodal transport study and its terms of
reference in the project (para 5.16);



- 31 -
(1) technical assistance to AFE to establish a cost-accounting system
(para 5.17);
(m)  the Government to finance the local cost of the project
(para 5.22);
(n) the Government to prepare quarterly reports for the Bank
regarding the progress of the project (para 5.30); and
(o) MTOP to hold semi-annual meetings with Bank staff to monitor
progress during project implementation (para 5.31).
7.02       It would be a condition for disbursement for the reconstruction
and rehabilitation works that the Government has reached agreement with one
or more co-lenders securing the amount of US$25 million (para 5.22).
7.03      The signature of an agreement between MTOP and AFE concerning the
technical assistance to establish a cost-accounting system would be a
condition for disbursement for these expenditures (para 5.17).
7.04       Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$45 million. The terms would be 15 years, including
a three-year grace period.
January 20, 1983



- 32 -                            TABLE 2.1
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet 1976 and 1980
Cars and           Trucks and
Pickup Trucks         Tractors               Buses
1976     1980       1976      1980       1976     1980
Montevideo                               113,143              13,425              2,042
Canelones                                 17,198               7,115                418
Maldonado                                  11,469              2,345                 168
Others                         ___ _    78,631                16,299                 866
TOTAL                          176,962   220,441   35,568   39,184   2,737         3,494
Annual Increase                        5.6%               2.51                6.3%
Source:   TPU/MTOP
March 1982



- 33 -
TABLE 3.1
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network 1976 and 1981
Departmental
National Network Cm)         Network Om)
Pavement Type                       1976              1981       1976     1981
Cement Concrete                           130.8            158.3
Asphalt Concrete                          933.4          1,198.7         _
1,064.2         1,357.0                   0
Double Surface Treatment                2,385.3          2,496.2       2,000
Reinforced Priming                      2,158.3          2,591.8         -        I
10
4,543.6         5,088.0                  r1
Gravel                                  3,614.3          3,215.7       4,000
Earth                                     542.7            152.3      34,000
4,157.0         3,368.0                   !
TOTAL                                   9,764.8          9,813.0      40,000
Source:   TPU/MTOP
March 1982



- 34 -
TABLE 3.2
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Transport and Public Works - Income
New Pesos (000)
User Charges               1979         1980         1981         1982 (Estimate)
Tax on Fuel and Lubricants: 391,424          661,067      794,408          900,000
ANCAP (transferred funds) 293,703          549,569      613,448
ANCAP (fuel provided)        97,721.       111,498     180,960
Road Tolls                     46,898         73,279      116,572          213,000
5% ticket tax on suburban
bus fares                    25,444         39,745       56,451           90,000
Vehicle Tax                     4,635          4,670        4,872           12,000
Sales                           4,770          8,909        8,942           10,000
ANP Transfer                      -            2,389       12,000           30,000
473,171        790,059     993,245        1,255,000
Other Income
Reimbursements                 41,965         95,829      122,319
Transfers from Ministry of
Economy and Finance          96,100)          -         73,615
Other Income                    6,948         11,785       56,251
External Loans                 39,024         38,041      57,706
Total                         657,208        935,714   1,303,136
New Pesos/US$                   7.918          9.160       10.871
US$ Million                      83.0          102.2        119.9
Source: MTOP
March 1982



TABLE 3.3
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Transport and Public Works - Expenditures
New Pesos (000)
1976        1977         1978       1979       1980        1981
Capital Investment              139,583      179,724      275,408   476,454   559,459    854,277
Contracted Work               125,117     158,710      248,873   436,221   459,991    732,009
a)  New Works and Recons.        -            -            -      299,615   262,000    423,011
b)  Rehabilitation               -            -            -      136,606   197,991    308,998
Force Account Construction   10,633         15,976      23,749    32,612    86,910    107,123
Studies                           780       4,078           872     5,279      5,067       8,843
Expropriations                  3,053          960        1,914     2,342      7,582       6,302
Transfers  of Capital               392          854        6,141    24,859    31,449       34,828
Agreements and Contri-
butions                         392          854       6,141    24,859    31,449        34,828
Current Expenditure              39,790       64,149       91,952   151,689   294,216    403,968
Road Maintenance               29,252       50,438       71,463   109,253   206,495    299,408
Personnel Costs                 6,617       10,440      13,531    29,380    48,289        83,642
Purchases                       2,456        2,485       4,694      8,101    15,535       15,964
Miscellaneous                   1,465          786        2,264     4,955    23,897        4,954
179,765     244,727      373,501   653,002   885,124  1,293,073
New Pesos/US$                     3.395        4.750        6.125      7.918     9.160      10.871
US$ Million                        52.9         51.5         61.0       82.5      96.6       118.9
Source: MTOP
March 1982



- 36 -                               TABLE 3.4
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Gasoline and Gas-Oil Consumption
(000) m3
Gasoline                 Price/Liter                  Diesel -     Price/Liter
Np          TJIS$                            Np    US$
1970           345.3                                              344.4
1971           360.9                                              375.5
1972           353.0                                              396.8
1973           318.1                                              387.0
1974           278.8                                              379.4
1975           280.1               2.299           45             405.7           .41    .18
1976           263.5               3.395          .42             436.2           .60    .18
1977           228.7(E)            4.750          .41             445.5          1.00    .21
1978           303.8               6.125          .43             481.4          1.32    .22
1979           335.4               7.918          .62             523.1          2.51    .32
1980           329.3               9.160          .89             523.8          4.15    .45
2/                             ~~~~~~~~~~2/
1981           348.9              11.729          .88             535.0          5.19-/  .44
1982                              14.30  3/       .92                -           5.71 3/ .46
1/ Including all sectors
2/ January 8, 1982
3/ June 10, 1982
Source: ANCAP
November 1982



- 37 -
TABLE 5.1
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Five-Year Highway Investment Plan 1983-1987
(in US$ million of December 1982)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987  1983-1987
Works in Execution
- Bank 50%; MTOP 50%                 30      18       5     -       -       -        23
- IDB  50%; MTOP 50%                 16     23      15      2       -       -        40
- MTOP 100%                          47     20       5      2       -       -        27
93     61      21      4       -       -        90
Works to Initiate
-  Bank 50%; MTOP 50%               -       14      27    33       23       -        97 1/
-  IDB  50%; MTOP 50%                -        -       7    18      30       56      111 1/
-  MTOP 100%                         -        5     21    25       27       24      102
-       19     55    76       80       80      310
Total Investments                    93      80     80    80       80       80      400
Foreign Financing                    23     33      32    32       32       34      163
- in %                               25%    41%    40%   40%    40%         43%    41%
- of which Bank                      16%    24%    26%   25%    17%          -      18%
1/ Without price contingencies
Source: MTOP/Mission
January 1983



- 38 -                                TABLE 5.2
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates for Civil Works -
(mil:Lion Np of June 1982)
Length             Costs                      US$ (000)/km
Road Reconstruction        km      Road   Bridges  Total   US$m  Total  Without Bridges
- Route 1                  73       266       40      306    20.4   280            240
- Route 9                  28       118       24      142      9.6   340           280
- Route 3                  10        40       -        40      2.7   270           270
111      424        64     488    32.7   290            260
Bridges with Access
- Route 1                   2        10       16       26      1.8   830           330
- Route 24                  2         8        8       16      1.1   540           270
- Route 10                  2         8        9       17      1.2   580           270
6       26       33       59      4.0   630           290
Road Rehabilitation
- Route 12                 30        43       -        43      2.9   100           100
- Route 23                 60        80       -        80      5.3    90            90
- Route 13                 20        33       -        33      2.2   110           110
- Route 15                 15        24       -        24      1.6   110           110
- Route 5                  60        60       -        60      4.0    70            70
185      240       -       240    16.0    90             90
Total Roads               302       690       97      787    52.7   175            155
1/ Identified works only.
Source: MTOP/Mission
January 1983



- 39 -
TABLE 5.3
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(million US$)
Latin America
Disbursed in        Cumulative      %       Highway Project
IBRD Fiscal Year         Semester         Disbursement  Total         % Total
FY 1984
December 31, 1983         2                   2          4
June 30, 1984             3                   5         11             18
FY 1985
December 31, 1984         4                   9         20
June 30, 1985             5                  14         31            36
FY 1986
December 31, 1985         7                  21         47
June 30, 1986             7                  28         62            58
FY 1987
December 31, 1986         6                  34         76
June 30, 1987             6                  40         89            77
FY 1988
December 31, 1987         5                  45        100            85
Source: Mission
November 1982



- 40 -                               TABLE 5.4
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tender and Construction Schedule
Detailed        Opening      Start      Completion
Engineer:ng       Bids        Works        Works
Reconstruction
-  Route 1                7-83           10-83        6-84          6-86
-  Route 9                5-84            8-84        4-85         12-86
-  Route 3               12-84            3-85       11-85         11-86
Rehabilitation
- Routes 13 & 15         11-82            2-83        5-83          5-84
- Routes 12 & 23          1-83            4-83        7-83          7-84
Source: MTOP and Mission
January 1983



- 41 -                             TABLE 6.1
URUGUAY
TIIIRD HIIGHW%TAY PROJECT
Traffic on Project Roads 1982 and Traffic Growth
Average       Projected
Daily         % Yearly           Light
Road Section          Traffic (ADT)    Growth            Vehicles          Buses         Trucks
Route 1
Km 54-67                   3,597            4.0             2,188             489            920
Km 67-128                  1,736            3.3             1,020             185            531
Km 128-167                 1,209             2.9              747             145            317
Route 3
Kn 79-90                  1,146            2.8               693             131            322
Route 5
km 390-490                  574            3.3               377              76            121
Route 9
km  67-95                   668            3.0               270              37            361
Buses & Trucks
Route 12                      310            3.0              135              175
Route 13                      232            3.0                57             175
Route 15                      280            3.0              153              127
Route 23                      316            3.0              132              184
Route 24                      685            3.2              385              300
Source:   Consultants Engevix, MTOP
September 1982



URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits for Main Roads Reconstruction
Np (000)
Km 54-67       Km 67-128      Km 79-90       Km 67-95                      Bridges
Costs          Route 1         Route 1         Route 3       Route 9        Route 24        Route 1       Route 10
1983             -                 -             -              -            1,553           2,145           -
1984           39,600          42,636            -              -           13,972          17,160        14,273
1985             -            138,567            -           58,580             -            2,145           -
1986 1                         31,977          33,000        58,570             -              -              -
2000          - 7,920             -              -              -          - 3,105         - 4,290       - 2,855
2001             -            -42,636        - 6,600        -23,430             -              -             -
Benefits
1985            7,952              -             -              -            3,589           4,933         2,201
1986            8,621          58,959            -              -            3,704           5,081         2,267
1987            9,335          62,440           8,811        18,336          3,822           5,233         2,335
1988           10,097          66,109           9,289        19,207          3,944           5,390         2,405
1989           10,910          69,172           9,796        20,130          4,070           5,552         2,477
1990           11,775          72,381          10,333        21,109          4,200           5,719         2,551            1
1991           12,696          75,744          10,902        22,147          4,334           5,891         2,628
1992           13,677          78,667          11,505        23,246          4,473           6,068         2,707
1993           14,722          81,709          12,145        24,411          4,616           6,250         2,788
1994           15,834          84,876          12,823        25,646          4,764           6,437         2,872
1995           17,016          88,173          13,541        26,956          4,916           6,630         2,958
1996           18,274          91,606          14,303        28,343          5,073           6,829         3,046
1997           19,610          95,179          15,111        29,814          5,235           7,034         3,137
1998           21,029          98,898          15,967        31,373          5,402           7,245         3,231
1999           22,537         102,770          16,875        33,026          5,574           7,462         3,328
2000             -            106,801          17,837        34,778            -               -             -
2001                              -            18,857        36,636            -               -
First Year
Returns           18               24             24            13              20             21            14
Rate of
Return            26               31             31            17              25             25            16           >
ADT 1985        4,046           1,913           1,245           730             753          1,317                          m
Sunrce:  VIALUR-ENGEVIX, Mission Estimates                                         1/ Residual values
September 1982



URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits for Road Rehabilitation, Np (000)
Costs              Route 5           Route 12           Rokite 13         Route 1.5         Route 23           Feeder Roads
1983                                   -                 2,475             1,800              _                 150,000
1984                  -               32,250            22,275            1.6,200           60,000              150,000
1985                22,500             -                             _ _                                        150,000
1986                22,500             -
Benefits
1935                  -                9,131             5,526             3,01.5           16,305              111,000
1986                  -                9,393             5,684             3,100            16,771              147,000
1987                20,855             9,663             5,846             3,187            17,251              151,410
1988                21,457             9,941             6.013             3,277            17,745              155,950
1-989               22,077            10,22-             6.185             3,370            13,254              160,630
1990                22,716            10,523             6 .32             3,466            18,778              165,450
1-991               23,374            10,827             6,54,5            3,565            19,313              170,410
1992                24,052            11,140             6,733             3,666            19,S7/4             175,530
1993                24,750            11,463             6,927             3,771            20,447             1. 8iJ,7T h0
1994                25,469            11,795             7,127             3,879            21,037              16, 021-
1995                26,210            12,137             7,333             3,990            21,645              191,300
1996                26,973            12,489             7,545             4,104            22,271              197,560
First Year
Returns               39                25                20                15                24                   20
Rates of Return         40                 29               22                15                 28                  25
ADT 1985               633                339              254               305                345
Source:   Mission Estimates
September 1982



URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
Switching Values for
First                12% Discount Rate
Road                                    20% Decrease       20% Increase       Year           Increase         Decrease
Section            Best Estimate         in Benefits          in Costs         Return         in Cost        in Benefits
Reconstruction
Route 1
KM 54-67                    26                     21               22              18            +118%             -54%
KM 67-128                   31                     25               26              24            +147%             -60%
Route 3
KM 79-90                    31                     25               26              24            +153%             -60%
Route 9
KM 67-95                    17                     13               14              13            +35%              -26%
Bridges
Route 1                     25                     20               20              21            +89%              -47%
Route 10                    16                     12               13              14            +27%              -21%
Route 24                    25                     20               21              20            +92%              -48%
Rehabilitation
Route 5                     40                     32               34              39            +174%             -64%
Route 12                    29                     23               24              25            +98%              -50%
Route 13                    22                     16               17              20            +54%              -35%
Route 15                    15                     11               11              15            +16%              -14%
Route 23                    28                     22               23              24            +90%              -47%
Feeder Roads                25                     20               21              20            +93%              -48%
Source: Mission Estimates
September 1982
0'



- 45 -
ANNEX I
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Study of Trucking and Intermodal Services
Outline Terms of Reference
The objectives of the study are: first, to review the
operational and pricing policies for the three freight surface transport
modes; second, to evaluate the efficiency of each modal transport system;
and third, to propose measures, including investment in terminal
facilities, to develop intermodal transport in Uruguay, particularly in the
metropolitan area of Montevideo.
To achieve these objectives, the study will provide:
(a) analysis of the existing transport modes and modal systems,
including costs, tariffs and regulation;
(b) proposals for improvement to the modal systems, including
consideration of intermodal alternatives;
(c) analysis of investments and their financing;
(d) analysis of the objectives and logistics of an intermodal freight
terminal for the Montevideo metropolitan area, and of the
different types of services to be provided;
(e) preliminary engineering of such a terminal, including an economic
analysis of the project;
(f) institutional, organizational, and operational aspects of the
terminal; and
(g) project financing.
The study will be divided into two parts with the first part
focusing on parts (a) to (c), followed by the second part covering the
Montevideo intermodal freight terminal.
January 1983



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Establish A Cost-Accounting System for AFE
Outline Terms of Reference
The purpose of the technical assistance is to provide the
Administracion de Ferrocarriles; del Estado (AFE) with consultant services
to prepare and put into effect systems for financial administration and
control, including a modern system for cost accounting.
To this end, the services will:
(a) introduce modern procedures for financial administration and
planning;
(b) upgrade the existing accounting system as warranted;
(c)  analyze and, where justified, give a new format for accounts and
data required for various reports;
(d) prepare an accounting manual, including the internal control
system and secondary systems such as cash accounting, current
accounts, control of inventory accounts and suppliers accounts;
(e) upgrade the budget system;
(f) upgrade cost accounting, as warranted, to determine the cost of
services provided, including the costs for workshops and
preparation of a costing manual;
(g) prepare a manual for internal auditing;
(h) review and revise the accounting of fixed assets;
(i)  establish a sound basis for tariff revisions;
(j) provide on-the-job t:raining as part of introduction of any new
system; and
(k) recommend organizational changes required as part of system
changes.
January 1983



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Road Evaluation - Methodology
1.        The evaluation of the main project roads has been based on the
Brazilian version of the highway design model (HDM) for the asphalt roads.
A similar analysis was carried out for the cement concrete roads. Vehicle
operating costs for each road section were based on a complete pavement
evaluation and on criteria for roughness etc.  Similarly, the costs for
different levels of maintenance were developed in consultation with
Vialidad. The economic evaluation used an incremental analysis comparing
the proposed reconstruction against a "without-case" in which, with high
maintenance cost, the roads are kept in adequate condition, and not against
a "do-nothing" alternative. In this conservative evaluation, the savings
in vehicle operating costs, primarily from heavy vehicles, provide 60-80%
of total benefits with savings in road maintenance costs constituting most
of the remainder. Time savings have been calculated, but, in most cases,
have little effect on the rates of return. Accident costs have not been
included since the incidence of accidents due to road surface deterioration
is difficult to ascertain accurately.
2.        The basic data for vehicle operating costs used for the main
roads were developed by consultants in consultation with TPU. The finan-
cial costs are estimated between Np 5.5 and 12.0 (US$0.48-1.05) per
vehicle-kilometer for trucks and between Np 3.7 and 4.2 (US$0.32:0.37) for
light vehicles. The reconstruction works would lower the vehicle operating
cost by some 5-18%, depending on road conditions. These cost differentials
also vary over time as a result of gradual deterioration of the roads and
because of increased traffic.
3.         Investment costs for bridges included in road sections to be
improved were considered in the evaluation to be part of the road section
investment. For bridges outside road sections to be reconstructed, relief
from the constraint to vehicle weights was the main benefit, in addition to
nonquantified benefits related to the structural and geometric deficiencies
of the old bridges. The constraint to the weight of the vehicles was
calculated as the effect of an average five-ton reduction of load for the
heaviest vehicles. This is consistent with a recommendation by the consul-
tants for a weight restriction for structurally deficient bridges, and has
been applied to the road sections where these bridges are located. The
analysis used is conservative since factors such as speed restrictions and
accidents have not been included.
4.        Rehabilitation of secondary national roads would require less
investment per kilometer, but traffic is also more limited. The main
benefits again are reductions of vehicle operation costs. These have been
estimated by TPU on essentially the same basis as that used for the main
roads. The road investment and maintenance costs are based on information
provided by Vialidad. In the case without rehabilitation, vehicle



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
operating costs have been expected to grow 1% above traffic growth to
reflect a deterioration of the road despite maintenance.
5.        For all of these evaluations, estimated financial costs (in
November 1981 prices) were converted to economic costs by a conversion
factor to adjust for taxes. This factor was 0.75 for road construction and
maintenance costs and about 0.64 for vehicle operating costs. The period
for investment evaluation for the reconstruction works was 15 years with a
residual value of 20% of the initial construction cost and 12 years for the
rehabilitation works without residual value.
January 1983



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
MTOP -          Plan Cuatrienal Para el Mejoramiento de Rutas y Puentes
Vialur-Engevix    Segundo Informe                  Enero 1982
Resumen General                 Junio 1982
MTOP            Plan Nacional de Caminos de Integracion
Coronel Lorenzo Latorre
January 1982
MTOP -          Aide Memoire                      March 5, 1982
World Bank                                         September 2, 1982
MTOP/TPU        Working Papers
November 1982






0 i -0 -   #%DTGDS                                __ - -r:I .....0URUGUAY
r;   t-i:g S 0-  | Xfg  ........... \ .4IR-7 NID  HIGHWAY PROJECT
/                        SN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/;                                   RL';/                 N   )   Bsts:,e.Um   9   \.i-  ;- - 0 - , - 0 -0r -
k ~ ~ ~ ~ ,k
SA-1 I~~~~~~~~
ffX   ELENO' A    ? DES                          . ,Rg/   ,.                  -  W    L\v/djZ   XBC-n'LEtcOA               -'   -  ,r''-'sEr        0   -    -;D   f D
t , i 3 - ,: : i .0 0tg _ Atsique > 0 S -A-A-A  '-'/;                           -        DA                                      PAT   O' AR,ACI
N                              ~~~~~~~MONTEVIEOEd,v
;-, ARQENTN.
-'                                                                                                                                                                                   ROADS TO SC _ECOSSTBDCO-.
AE          4                                                                               '-.    DEOE SOW BE REPLACE
I                                                                                                                                                             SCATHE/
LIEIJ0                                   ; .  - '                                                                                                                               _    ROPADETD MAI  RERANSRCE
' '  : .   '5 ' o   i, g D . - .     I  . -  X .  z              : . (. L .: s                                                       _    ARIDGes TO BE Rs PLACED~~~~~~11~11E TO 1
,r t                               . ;; _RA  '   tAEA .SAA.T. ROA..DS
ANA E  R    -                                   / Z  |                                                                                                                            A'PDVE R RODEO
UU A '|-  -                  ''                          i|            9T.E  l .a  t epm o(0                                                                               SY+TEPNATIANAL AIRPORTS
~~~R'RSD,d0,0AR                                                             A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIII-OAIAlll
e um  J S trFS mi s tdS{e wimle#F hr + OAR'IIDICDSIROAOBJ PRTS _
RD'ROST,BBRDDP -Ts.Td            ITO                          ITO        T7                                             RNIAPE  DART
[ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    10 *-COS'C D| ;c       .i   2En  n U rhGN,EsKLMT                                                              -. -   ISTEPNATIONAL EOANDARIES        mA
<   .  .,   4 5 -;, . r E ex   tev mmlf5wmTOt f Yt,,h oumS.-ras                                                                         RIV5 RS                      m N~~~~~~~~~RDERS 
.(' 
I ETArT                                                                                                                                    5's



