Document of                         1i LPCO
The World Blank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3451-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMIENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF' THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$45.0 MILLI
TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY E'ROJECT
January 26, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = New Peso (Np)
July 1982               December 1982
Np 1 = US$ 0.079        Np 1 = US$ 0.04
US$  = Np 12.734        US$  = Np 25.00
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY FISCAL YEAR
4
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFE           Administracion de los Ferrocarriles del Estado (National
Railways Administration)
ANP            Administracion Nacional de Puertos (National Port
Administration)
DNT           Direccion Nacional de Transporte (National Directorate of
Transport)
Intendencias Regional Administrations
MTOP           Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Publicas (Ministry of
Transport and Public Works)
SEPLACODI     Secretaria de Planificacion, Coordinacion y Difusion
(National Planning Secretariat)
TPU           Transport Planning Unit
Vialidad      National Highways Directorate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Executing Agencies:   The Ministry of Transport and Public Works
(MTOP) for administering the technical assistance
component; the National Highways Directorate
(Vialidad) withini MTOP for the reconstruction and
rehabil:Ltation works; the Intendencias (Regional
Administrations) for the feeder road program; the
National State Railways for the establishment of a
railway cost accounting system.
Amount:                US$ 45.0 million equivalent, including the
capitalized front:-end fee of about US$335 thousand.
Terms                  Repayable over 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proj ect
Description:           The proposed project would assist the Government in
carrying out its Five-Year Highway Investment Program
and National Feeder Road Program. The project would
consolidate and strengthen the planning,programing
and executing capacity of the Ministry of Transport
and Public Works, and of the Intendencias. The
project would improve coordination among transport
modes and assist the National Railways Administration
in establishing a cost accounting system.
Beneficiaries:         The Government of Uruguay through reduced highway
maintenance costs; road users through lower operating
costs and transport tariffs; agricultural producers
through provision of all-weather feeder roads; the
National State Railways through initiation of a cost
control program.
Risks                  Past experience with road projects in Uruguay has
shown delays in the tender and contracting as well as
in the construction stages of project implementa-
tion. The arrangements and schedule for the
tendering phase of the project were carefully
reviewed and agreed with the MTOP to avoid these
problems in the future. While there is a risk that
fiscal constraints may require reductions in the
Highways Investment Program, an analysis of the
expected financial resources of the MTOP and the
composition of the Program indicates a considerable
cushion to ensure satisfactory execution of the
projecte
This doument ha a festrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
hir ofial dutis It contents may not otherwise be ciisclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs
Local        Foreign         Total
…(US$ million)----------
1.   Road and Bridge
Reconstruction               14.7          22.0            36.7
2.   Road rehabilitation            11.7           17.5            29.2
3.   Feeder Roads                   28.0           12.0            40.0
4.   Traffic Safety                  0.7            1.0             1.7
5.   Institution Building            0.2            0.8             1.0
6.   Total Base Costs               55.3           53.3           108.6
7.   Physical Contingencies          4.1            6.2            10.3
8.   Price Contingencies             7.6           10.2            17.8
9.   Total Project Costs            67.0 1/        69.7           136.7
10.  Front-end Fee                    -             0.3             0.3
11. Total Financing
Required                    67.0           70.0           137.0
Financing Plan:
Government of Uruguay             47.0             -             47.0
Intendencias                      20.0             -             20.0
Commercial Banks                    -            25.0            25.0
IBRD 2/                             -            45.0            45.0
TOTAL                          67.0          70.0            137.0
Estimated Disbursements
1984     1985      1986      1987       1988
---------(US$ million by Bank FY)--------
Annual                    5         9       14         12          5
Cumulative                5        14       28         40         45
Rate of Return:       26%
Appraisal Report: No. 4147b-UR dated January 20, 1983.
1/ Includes US$13.7 million in taxes and duties.
2/ Includes front-end fee of US$ 334,988.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDArION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$ 45.0 MILLION TO
THE REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republica Oriental del Uruguay for the equivalent of US$45.0
million to help finance the proposed Third Highway Project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum (No. 3652-UR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1982. The following paragraphs provide a
summary and discuss developments subsequent to the publication of the
report. A summary of the Country Basic Data is attached as Annex I.
Economic Performance
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America in the first half of the twentieth century, Uruguay's economy
deteriorated steadily in the next two decades. This was the result of
policies that favored urban consumpticn and high-cost industrial import
substitution at the expense of investment, exports and growth. A
well-educated and predominantly urban population generated increasing
demands for high employment, better public services and social benefits.
The attempts to meet these demands took the form of fiscal, exchange rate
and price policies that resulted in a sustained transfer of income out of
the resource-rich agricultural and livestock sector mainly into consumption
by the urban population. Industrial sector development, strongly
stimulated by shortages of consumer gcods during World War II, was fostered
through a deliberate import substitution and protection policy during the
immediate post-war era. However, economic growth faltered as agricultural
production, productivity and exports declined after the Korean War. More-
over, industrial import substitution possibilities in the small domestic
market were quickly exhausted. Unemployment and underemployment rose
sharply.  Government policies aimed at: maintaining urban income and
consumption levels resulted in strong inflationary pressures, capital
flight and serious misallocation of resources. During the early 1970s,
political and social unrest marked by urban terrorism and labor strife
further discouraged savings, investment and any initiative to expand output
and exports.
4.        The structural changes in the world economy initiated in late
1973 had a strong impact on the Uruguayan economy. The threefold increase
in the price of imported oil (Uruguay imports 100% of its oil needs), sub-
stantial increases in other import prLces, and the closing of the European



Economic Community to meat imports contributed to a further deterioration
in the balance of payments, mounting fiscal deficits, and an acceleration
of domestic inflation. The economic team appointed in mid-1974 concluded
that long-term solutions to the country's economic problems would require
turning away from the inward-looking policies of the past toward greater
integration with the world economy. The new development strategy sought to
improve resource allocation and production efficiency by tying domestic
monetary liquidity, prices, and interest rates more closely to changing
conditions in international capital and trade markets.
5.        Achieving these objectives required the elimination of chronic
fiscal deficits, a reduction in the growth of net domestic Central Bank
credit, financial and trade liberalization, and a more stable, predictable
exchange rate policy. Tax rates were raised and the incidence of tax
evasion reduced; the dual exchange markets were unified and restrictions on
most foreign exchange transactions eliminated; interest rates ceilings were
raised and then abolished along with the provision of subsidized export
credits. Exports were assisted by substantial increases in tax credits,
frequent small devaluations of the peso, and the abolition of quantitative
and financial controls on imports of raw materials and capital goods.
Price ceilings and marketing controls on many domestic products were lifted
or eased.
6.        The economy responded positively to this change of direction.
Spurred by a nearly 14% real annual increase in domestic investment, it
experienced the first period of sustained growth since the early 1950s,
expanding by 4.4% annually during 1975-79, or 3.5% in per capita terms.
The 8.7% growth rate achieved in 1979 was the highest in nearly 35 years.
Although real public and private sector wages continued their decline, this
was offset by a more-than-6% annual growth of total employment (29% cumu-
latively between 1975 and 1979), resulting in a near-constant total real
wage bill.  The acceleration in the growth of domestic incomes, the
tightening of Central Bank credit, and the removal of financial controls
were followed by rapid increases in domestic interest rates and net inflows
of foreign capital. The expanding supply of foreign exchange financed both
a rapid growth of imports--mainly for investment--and a rapid accumulation
of official reserves. Merchandise export growth averaging nearly 16%
annually provided a steadily expanding base of foreign exchange earnings
for the servicing of Uruguay's external debt; the total (public and
private) debt service ratio declined from 40% of merchandise exports in the
early and mid-1970s to around 16% in 1979.
7.        However, only limited progress toward reducing inflation and
raising the international competitiveness of domestic industry was achieved
during this period. Consequently, policymakers began ascribing a higher
priority to the solution of these problems. In 1978, the maximum global
import tariff was lowered from 300% to 150%, and it was announced that this
rate would be lowered in annual stages to 35% by January 1, 1985. In an
effort to curb inflationary expectations, the quotation of the peso against
the U.S. dollar, minimum officially-mandated salary increases, and
increases in public utility tariffs were announced 6-9 months in advance,
starting in October 1978. The announced rates of change were well below
the prevailing rate of inflation. In 1979, the practice of publicly



- 3 -
projecting salary and public tariff increases was discontinued, but
preannouncement of the rate of peso depreciation was maintained until late
1982. The anti-inflationary cum liberalization policy strategy also led to
a decision that the Central Bank should desist from active management of
the domestic money supply. All open market operations were halted, banking
reserve requirements eliminated, and remaining interest rate ceilings
removed. It was anticipated that domestic interest rates would converge
rapidly to the international rate of interest, adjusted for changes in the
valuation of the peso, through the unimpeded arbitrage of international
capital flows.
Recent Economic Performance
8.        The initial impact of the new policies was contrary to expecta-
tions. Consumer price inflation nearly doubled from 46% in 1978 to 83% in
1979, propelled by the monetary shock of large-scale foreign capital
inflows.  Foreign savers were attracted by high peso interest rates which,
discounted by the comparatively low rate of devaluation, yielded returns of
30% or more annually in U.S. dollar terms. Inflation was also fueled by
the one-time liquidity effect of removing all bank reserve requirements, a
surge of tourist and real estate investment demand from neighboring
Argentina, removal of longstanding domestic livestock price controls,
sharp increases in international beef prices, shortfalls in domestic crop
production, and previously unused margins of tariff protection which, de
facto, prolonged the insulation of domestic producers from foreign
competition. Although inflation declined rapidly thereafter (to 43% in
1980, 29% in 1981, and 11% on an annual basis during the first 11 months of
1982), it remained substantially above the rate of devaluation until late
1981, eroding both the international competitiveness of domestic production
and public confidence in the peso. The wDrld recession, rising
international interest rates, and the appreciation of the U.S. dollar
vis-a-vis the currencies of Uruguay's other major trading partners have
also exacerbated the difficulties of domestic producers in adjusting to
sharper competition from imports.
9.        As a result, the Uruguayan economy plunged into the sharpest
recession of the post-war era. GDP growth declined steadily from a 4.5%
annual rate in 1980 to -1.3% in 1981 and an estimated -8.6% during 1982.
Unemployment rose from 5.7% of the active labor force in the first half of
1981 to nearly 13% during the last half of 1982. Nominal export growth
slowed from 34% in 1980 to 15% in 1981, and then declined 21% in 1982.
Real peso interest rates rose from -1% in 1979 to 26% in 1980 to over 40%
in 1982.  The public sector fiscal balance shifted from a surplus of 0.5%
of GDP in 1980 to a deficit of 2.3% in 1931, and 11.4% of GDP in 1982. And
net Central Bank international reserves, after rising by US$137 million in
1980 and US$24 million in 1981, have fallen by an estimated US$620 million
during 1982.
10.       Acknowledging the severity of the domestic economic situation, in
May 1982 the Government announced corrective measures designed to contain
the fiscal deficit, halt the steady drain of reserves, and reactivate the
economy, including: (i) an acceleration Ln the pre-announced rate of peso
depreciation from 1.1% monthly in the first quarter of 1982 to 2.2% monthly
during the last four months of the year; (ii) a temporary across-the-board



export subsidy of 10% and an equivalent surcharge on imports; (iii)
cancellation of plans to mandate additional salary increases for the
remainder of 1982; (iv) new revenue measures, including increases in
value-added and corporate income taxes, the introduction of a new salary
withholding tax, and stricter enforcement of existing legislation covering
tax evasion; and (v) plans to create a new Development Department in the
state-owned Banco Republica to increase the flow of medium and long-term
credit to industry and agriculture. The Government also announced
it had initiated negotiations with the IMF on a multi-year stabilization
program. Subsequently, in October 1982, measures to slow the growth of new
beneficiaries entering the social security system and raise employer and
employee contributions were announced along with new subsidized export
credits and debt refinancing.
11.       Despite these corrective measures, the macro-economic situation
continued to deteriorate. The fiscal situation worsened, as rising tax
rates accentuated the decline in real incomes and increased the incentive
to evade taxes. Consequently, revenues actually declined by 8% in nominal
terms during 1982 (22% in real terms), while real expenditures rose 4%,
reflecting mainly increases in social security outlays. Roughly half of
the fiscal deficit was covered by the expansion of Central Bank peso
credit, which the public rapidly converted into foreign currency as a hedge
against the devaluation risk. Thus, the Central Bank continued to lose
reserves at the rate of US$40-50 million monthly. The flight from the peso
tightened domestic liquidity to the point where real lending rates in late
1982 reached record levels of over 50 percent annually, decapitalizing
enterprises and discouraging consumption and investment. The overvaluation
of the peso, combined with a recession in Uruguay's principal external
markets (particularly Brazil and Argentina), induced a sharp decline in
exports (down 18% in real terms) and a shift in final consumption toward
imported goods and tourism. As a result, the decline in domestic
production gradully accelerated and domestic unemployment became a serious
social and political issue. Efforts to stem the loss of working reserves
and finance part of the fiscal deficit through stepped up external
borrowing led to rapid increases in short-term public sector indebtedness,
which rose from US$86 million at the end of 1981 to US$460 million by the
end of 1982, and a mounting debt service burden.
12.       On November 25, the Government announced that it would no longer
observe the daily devaluation schedule which had been announced up to the
end of February 1983, but would allow the peso to float freely against the
U.S. dollar. While the daily rate has shown considerable instability since
that announcement, the average rate of Np3O/US$1 in January 1983 implied a
peso depreciation on the order of 54% relative to the parity quoted just
prior to the float. In mid-January, negotiations on a IMF stabilization
Agreement were concluded. The agreement, if approved, would provide
additional resources in the amount of SDR378 million (US$400 million) over
a two-year period. The program calls for a major reduction in the size of
the fiscal deficit in 1983 and rough equilibrium in 1984, realistic
exchange rate polices, the reintroduction of marginal reserve requirements
and open market operations, reductions in import barriers and export
subsidies, temporary export taxes, and strict controls over public sector
external and domestic borrowing. Inflation is likely to accelerate, at
least temporarily, as prices adjust to the new exchange rate, rising from
19% in 1982 to 40% or more in 1983. The higher exchange rate, combined



- 5 -
with monetary and fiscal restraints, should improve export incentives
markedly, although in light of the world recession, the restoration of
export-led economic growth will be gradual at best. Little or no growth is
expected in 1983, but average growth of 4% annually may be feasible in
subsequent years.
13.       Uruguay's prospects over the next several years may also be
constrained by less favorable access to external capital than in the recent
past. During the 1977-81 period, net foreign capital inflows--mainly
direct investment and long-term bank depcsits--were equivalent to nearly 6%
of GDP. At the same time, the maturity structure of the public and
publicly-guaranteed debt was stretched dTamatically; as a result, annual
service payments declined from US$245 million in 1977 to US$173 million in
1981.
14.       This situation changed rapidly in 1982, as new borrowing to
finance the public sector deficit accelerated, and Uruguay's sources of
medium and long-term credit dried up. Foreign commercial banks, which
constitute the primary source of the counitry's long-term credit, were
reluctant to increase their exposure in IJruguay in the wake of the recent
conflict in the South Atlantic, the debt--service difficulties of major
borrowers in the Region, and uncertainty about the Government's future
economic program. As a result, the Government stepped up net short-term
borrowing in 1982 by approximately US$400 million.  Uruguay's total
external debt outstanding and disbursed as of the end of 1982 amounted to
US$2.7 billion compared to US$2.0 billion at the end of 1981. Taking into
account the need to roll over mounting short-term indebtedness, Uruguay's
total debt service burden (on long and slhort-term indebtedness) is expected
to rise from around 19% of exports (goods and non-factor services) in 1981
to 40% in 1982 and around 60% in 1983. If service only on the public medium
and long-term debt (a more widely-used indicator) is counted, the
corresponding ratios are much lower -- 10% in 1981, 20% in 1982, and a
projected 26% in 1983.
15.       With the completion of negotiations and the prospect of early
approval of the IMF stabilization agreement, Uruguay's access to private
commercial medium and long-term credits is expected to improve, although it
would be more constrained than in the recent past. Refinancing the
short-term debt appears feasible. This would substantially ease the
pressure of debt service on foreign exchange earnings and reserves. On the
basis of this scenario, the total debt service burden would decline rapidly
in succeeding years, but remain above 4C% of export earnings for some time
to come. These projections assume a recovery in real export growth to
around 7% annually, average real GNP growth of 3-4% annually, real import
growth of around 2% annually, a restoration of fiscal equilibrium by 1984,
and no further reserve losses after 1983. By 1986, Uruguay would emerge
with a more favorable balance of payment:s and external debt configuration,
more secure long-term sources of finance, and the possibility of resuming
the economic growth rates of the recent past. During the interim period of
adjustment, Uruguay's ample reserves (equivalent to 11 months of imports at
the end of 1982), and demonstrated comnitment to adopt whatever measures
are needed to maintain regular service on its external debt, afford
reasonable assurances that the country will remain creditworthy for the
amounts of external capital required to modernize its capital stock and
achieve sustained economic progress.



PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
16.       As of August 31, 1982, the Bank had made 20 loans to Uruguay,
amounting to US$397.2 million, of which 7 are not yet fully disbursed. The
undisbursed amount as of August 31, 1982 was US$189.4 million. Annex II
contains a sulmmary statement of Bank loans and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.   At the end of 1981, the Bank held 3.5% of Uruguay's
external public and private debt outstanding; its share of the service on
this debt in 1981 was 4.7%. In 1982, the Bank's share in total debt
outstanding is estimated to have decreased to 2.5%.
17.       As of August 31, 1982, IFC had committed in Uruguay a total of
US$18.8 million for four projects, of which US$17.4 was in loans and US$1.3
million in equity. The total undisbursed portion (all under the loan
category) was US$4.5 million.
18.       Bank disbursements in Uruguay are generally satisfactory for
repeater projects, such as in the highway sector. Despite delays, it is
expected that the Second Highway Project will be fully disbursed within six
years compared to the Bank LAC average of seven years.   However,
operations in new sectors have experienced initial delays, mostly because
it took the government longer than expected to comply with institutional
covenants and because the executing agencies needed more time than
anticipated to become familiar with Bank procedures.  These factors have
adversely affected the execution of operations in the education, ports, and
telecommunications sector. By and large, problems have been solved with
increased supervision, and disbursements should proceed satisfactorily.
Disbursements of the agricultural and the industrial credit operations have
been affected negatively because of the economic recession in Uruguay. A
recent amendment to the Loan Agreement for the Agricultural Development
Project to ease credit terms for small farmers will probably increase
demand for credit under the project.
19.       First among Uruguay's major long-term development priorities is
improvement in the efficiency of resource allocation. Progress in this
area will require maintaining the momentum of the tariff liberalization
process, followed by reduction of non-tariff barriers, and speeding up the
restructuring and modernization of production facilities. The Bank's
lending program, through its two industrial credit operations, has provided
critical support to the Government's program to lower import barriers and
reduce price controls. In the current difficult economic situation, Bank
lending will be structured so as to encourage the Government to press
forward with the tariff reforms and to resist strong domestic pressures to
reverse the process of opening up the economy. This will be the objective
of additional industrial and agricultural credit operations.
20.       Second, Uruguay's human resource base, though well developed in
terms of literacy levels, needs to be further adapted to the needs of an
open economy. Upper and middle managers, in both the public and private
sectors, generally have a background of broad academic training which is
not always well-suited to the pragmatic, problem-solving needs of a modern
society. An on-going Bank supported vocational training and technological
development project is addressing one aspect of this problem. Future Bank



- 7 -
involvement in the process of human resource development would be provided
through technical assistance for projects in individual sectors and,
possibly, through a project focused on management training.
21.       Third, Uruguay has not yet ach:.eved the degree of institutional
development required to assure self-sustaining growth. Some significant
progress has been made, however, with the help of the Bank. Power, tele-
communications, and ports projects supported by Bank loans are gradually
transforming three of Uruguay's oldest and most poorly managed agencies
into modern institutions. Longstanding assistance to the livestock sector
has given birth to a high-quality extensLon service. Two recent industrial
credit projects have led to the establishment of an independent appraisal
unit that is rapidly becoming a model of public sector project evaluation
and technical assistance to industry. Bank lending for highways has
promoted the development of a previously nonexistent transport planning
capability. Nevertheless, institutional capacity needs further
strengthening. The proposed Third Highway Project places strong emphasis
on the planning process and a similar strategy will be followed in future
operations in the energy and, possibly, railways and ports sectors.
22.       Finally, agriculture is and will continue to be the mainstay of
the Uruguayan economy. The contribution of this sector to GDP and employ-
ment is relatively modest, but it is of zrucial importance as a foreign ex-
change earner and a supplier of raw materials to domestic industry. The
Bank hitherto has concentrated on the livestock sector, particularly on
strengthening producer incentives and ranch management. It has been
instrumental in setting up a solid extension/appraisal institution and,
more recently, in supporting Government efforts to formulate a series of
reforms. In the future, Bank involvement in the agricultural sector will
shift towards support of intensified livestock/crop rotation techniques,
emphasizing a reduction in domestic crop protection, more effective export
promotion mechanisms, improved crop-oriented research services and a more
comprehensive crop extension network. Projects under consideration would
be geared to help stabilize producer incomes, enhance productivity, and
reduce soil erosion. Experience derived from an on-going agricultural
development loan, including a pilot lending program and a study, should
further clarify the prospects for intensifying small farmer production.
PART III - SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR
General
23.       With its economy largely based on primary and processed agricul-
tural/livestock products, Uruguay is heavily dependent on the development
of its transport sector for continued economic growth. Bordered by the two
largest countries in South America, Argentina in the west and Brazil in the
north, and with more than half of its national boundary as navigable coast-
line, the country has, geographically, unusually favorable conditions for
an export-oriented development. The concentration of Uruguay's commercial
activity and population in the capital of Montevideo and the extensive
agricultural and livestock development of its hinterland are reflected in



the structure of the countryts transport system. The interior, with rela-
tively flat terrain, main rivers as boundaries and low density agriculture
lent itself to development of radial roads and rail networks, originating
from the metropolitan area around the seaport of Montevideo (Map IBRD
14225 R). This port, strategically located at the mouth of the La Plata
River, is the country's focal point for foreign trade and also serves
inland and coastal navigation.
The Transport System
(a) Railways
24.       Uruguay's railways were purchased by the Government in 1949,
after having been owned and operated by a British company for about 65
years. Upon the change of ownership, the Government established the Admin-
istracion de los Ferrocarriles del Estado (AFE), a semi-autonomous agency,
to operate the 3,000 Km railway network. The deterioration of the railways
continued for lack of adequate maintenance and replacement investments.
Although a recovery plan was initiated in 1973, the level of investment was
inadequate to compensate for past shortfalls and by 1980 AFE carried only
12% of total freight traffic. Inefficient management and operating
procedures and the operation of unprofitable services and lines, combined
with the very poor physical condition of the system, has resulted in
increasing financial losses, reaching US$30 million in 1981.
25.       The financial condition of the railway is of major concern to the
Government. Under the proposed project, funds are included to assist AFE
in establishing cost accounting in order to be able to set adequate tariffs
and determine unprofitable lines and services as a first step towards
rationalizatioin of the system. Funds are also included for a feasibility
study of an intermodal transport terminal in Montevideo which would enable
the railways to participate in efficient import/export cargo traffic,
including container transport.
(b) Ports and Water Transport
26.       Over 90% of Uruguay's foreign trade in volume is maritime; most
of its trade has traditionally been handled through the port of
Montevideo. The shallower ports in neighboring Argentina enabled
Montevideo to become a lightering as well as topping off port for ships
destined to or originating in Buenos Aires. Potentially, Uruguay could
also become a major gateway for the foreign trade of Paraguay, northern
Argentina, Bolivia and even southern Brazil. Factors that would favor such
development in the near future are the new rail link to Argentina over the
dam at Salto Grande, and proposed international agreements among the
Southern Cone countries that would permit the transfer of freight across
borders in bond, simplifying customs procedures. River navigation and
coastal shipping for domestic transport are relatively unimportant in
Uruguay, amounting to only 3% of internal freight movement.
27.       Administracion Nacional de Puertos (ANP) is the national
organization entrusted with the administration of ports since 1916. In the
last few years, ANP has succeeded in improving vessel dispatch, and reduc-
ing the total number of employees and total port operating costs in real



- 9 -
terms. Despite these improvements, ANP's costs are still high, and the
port of Montevideo needs modernization and higher efficiency; this is the
focus of a recent Bank loan (Loan 1798-UR).
(c) Air Transport
28.       Air Transport has developed slowly in Uruguay, principally
because of the concentration of population in the Montevideo area, the
country's easy topography resulting in dense networks of surface transpor-
tation, and the short distances involved. Uruguay has only one main func-
tioning international airport, Carrasco in Montevideo.
(d) Highways
29.       Roads are the principal mode for domestic freight traffic (85% of
total in 1980), and inter-urban passenger traffic (90% of total). As a
result of new and improved border connections, primarily with Argentina,
road transport is important also for international traffic. Trade with
Argentina and Brazil, handled almost exclusively by road transport, repre-
sents 25-30% of Uruguay's total foreign trade by value. For international
tourism, road transport has been the dominant mode, accounting for some 45%
of total arrivals, compared to 24% by sea (mainly by ferryboat to Colonia)
and 31% by air.
30.        The trucking industry is dominated by individual owner-operators
who, together with private truck operators (not-for-hire common carriers),
control an estimated 95% of the operational public trucking fleet. Truck
tariffs are not regulated in Uruguay and competition causes wide seasonal
and commodity variations. Entry into the industry is generally unrestric-
ted.
31.       The highway network in Uruguay is relatively extensive with 9,800
km of national roads and some 40,000 km cf departmental roads. The most
important roads in the national network (about one-third of total) have an
asphalt concrete or cement concrete pavenment; other national roads have
a light bituminous pavement. Only about 5% of departmental roads are
paved. The coverage of the national road network is adequate, and its
capacity, except for sections near Montevideo, is sufficient. The princi-
pal problem is the serious deterioration in road condition, notably of the
main international connections. The departmental road network needs
improvement mainly in areas with high agricultural potential, where roads
are of poor standard and offer restricted serviceability after heavy rains.
32.       The National Highways Directorate (Vialidad), within the Ministry
of Transport and Public Works (MTOP), is responsible, through its head-
quarters in Montevideo and nine regional offices, for planning, construc-
ting and maintaining of the national highway network. The departmental
road network is controlled by the Regional Administrations (Intendencias)
for construction and maintenance. Highway construction is performed under
contract with private construction firms. The local contracting industry
is well developed. All contracts for the works in The Second Highway
Project (Loan 1689-UR) were obtained by Jruguayan contractors in competi-
tion with interested Brazilian and Argentine firms.



- 10 -
33.       National highways are maintained by Vialidad using its own labor
force and equipment. The central workshop, located in the outskirts of
Montevideo, performs all major equipment repairs; it also is the national
center for maintenance training. Maintenance was insufficient in the past
but has improved considerably in the last five years. The program has been
assisted by a study, completed in 1977, for maintenance requirements under
an IDB-financed grant, by an IDB equipment loan and by supplier-financed
additional equipment purchases. The maintenance budget for 1982, at Np 430
million (US$35 million equivalent at average 1982 exchange rate) was
satisfactory. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will
continue to maintain roads adequately, and that yearly allocations for road
maintenance shall not be lower, in real terms, than those in 1982 (section
4.03 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
34.       Domestic prices for diesel and regular gasoline in June 1982 were
75% and 230%, respectively, above the world market CIF prices. The
refinery price constitutes 64% of gasoline prices and 77% of diesel oil.
MTOP receives 15% of the pump price of gasoline and 11% of diesel oil, and
the Treasury 12% of gasoline and diesel oil price. Other recipients of
gasoline taxes are the Energy Fund (7%) and the Intendencias (2%). Fuel
taxes and other user charges on motor vehicles cover not only the marginal
road usage cost, but also new construction and reconstruction. With no
increase expected in construction activity, overall road user charges will
remain adequate for the forseeable future. However, trucks do not cover
the full cost of road usage, being subsidized by light gasoline-driven
vehicles.
35.       MTOP receives financing for capital and current expenditures from
various sources, of which the tax on fuel and lubricants is the most
important. Total MTOP's expenditures for 1982 are estimated at US$152 mil-
lion equivalent, of which US$112 million would be for investments and US$40
million for road maintenance. MTOP's own revenues amount to about US$106
million (70% of total); US$27.5 million (18%) is derived from external loan
disbursements and US$18.5 million (12%) from the general budget.
Reflecting budgetary constraints and the devaluation following the decision
to float the peso, the Government wants to hold the 1983 highways budget to
US$115 million, US$80 million for investments and US$35 million for
maintenance.
Transport Planning and Coordination
36.       MTOP was created in 1967.  In principle, it has responsibility
for the development of a national transport policy, for transport coordi-
nation and for tariff setting. In the past, the MTOP had nominal jurisdic-
tion over investment plans and operational policies of the modal agencies
responsible for ports, rail, and air operations; in practice, their plans
and policies were formulated independently.   The National Directorate of
Transportation (DNT), created in 1975 within MTOP, is the formal administ-
rative link between the operational agencies and SEPLACODI, the National
Planning Secretariat. However, MTOP has only submitted road investments
and expenditures proposals to SEPLACODI, while requests for other modes
came directly from the agencies. MTOP's involvement in transport invest-
ments across modes is essential; therefore, as a condition of the loan, the



- 11 -
Government confirmed that MTOP would be given an opportunity to comment on
all major investments in land transport prior to their approval, and that
consultations will be held between MTOP and the Bank on transport
coordination and land transport investments (section 3.04 (c) and 4.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
37.        In 1979, a Transport Planning Unit (TPU) within the DNT was
established. Technical assistance to strengthen the TPU started in late
1980 with financing under a UNDP grant and the Bank's Second Highway
Project. Three experts provided by this grant conducted intensive training
and prepared guidelines for evaluation of transport investments. The TPU
presently is assisting MTOP in preparing the draft for the 1983-1987
National Transport Plan. The Plan is based on the study carried out by
consultants under the Second Highway Project, which identified road
sections and bridges in the primary netwrork that are in urgent need of
reconstruction and strengthening. Future assignments of the TPU would
involve reviews of annual investment plans by all transport modes as well
as transport policies and regulations.
Past Bank Assistance for the Transport Sector
38.       Bank Group involvement in Uruguay's transport sector began with a
highway loan in 1963 (Loan 324-UR, US$18.5 million equivalent), which
assisted in financing improvement of Route 5 from the outskirts of
Montevideo to the Brazilian border (500 km); it also included components of
highway maintenance and a highway plann-Lng study. The works were completed
in 1971, five years later than the appraisal estimate. The delay was
caused by incomplete engineering designs, difficulties in obtaining satis-
factory bids, and poor performance of some contractors. Cost overruns,
mainly because of the five-year delay, r:eached 14%, but actual traffic was,
on average, about 50% over the appraisal estimate.
39.       Following a transport sector review by the Bank in 1974, the
Government obtained UNDP financing to carry out a comprehensive survey of
the national transport system with the Bank as Executing Agency. This
survey was instrumental in identifying the Second Highway and the Port
Projects both approved by the Bank's Board in 1979.
40.       The Second Highway Project (US$26.5 million and US$5.0 cofinan-
cing) assists the Government in the reconstruction of 146 km of the most
heavily travelled portion of Route 8, an important link with Brazil; it is
also helping to improve long-term programing and executing capacity for
road rehabilitation and reconstruction as well as transport planning and
coordination through the TPU.  By December 1982, construction works were
50% completed and are expected to be finalized early in 1984.
41.       The most recent Bank loan for the transport sector was for the
modernization and upgrading of the port of Montevideo. The project assists
ANP in a substantial upgrading of the service of the port of Montevideo and
in reducing operating costs. The project became effective almost a year
behind schedule because of a delay in issuing a new tariff decree.
Procurement of floating craft and equipment is now under way, and civil
works are to start soon.  Other civil works in the project but not financed
by the loan are well advanced.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
42.       The project was prepared by the MTOP.  The project was appraised
in February 1982 and post-appraised in August 1982. Negotiations took
place in Washington, D.C. from December 15 to December 21, 1982. The
Uruguayan delegation was led by the Minister of Transport and Public
Works. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "URUGUAY: Third Highway
Project" (No. 4147b-UR dated January 20, 1983), is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the project
are listed in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
43.       The proposed Third Highway Project would finance parts of MTOP's
1983-87 Highway Investment Plan, which was prepared under the Second High-
way Project. The project would support part of Uruguay's first National
Feeder Road Program which was prepared by the Intendencias and reviewed and
approved by the MTOP. The project would consolidate and strengthen the
planning, programing and executing capabilities of MTOP and Vialidad; it
would help enhance the role of Montevideo as a center for transit traffic
through reconstruction of sections of key road corridors to Argentina and
Brazil and through execution of a study on intermodal transport. The
proposed loan would also pave the way for improving the operations of the
National Railways Administration (AFE) by providing technical assistance to
establish a cost accounting system.
44.       The project will consist of the following components:
(a) Road and Bridge Reconstruction
- Civil works for the reconstruction of about 115 km of road
sections in international links;
- Civil works for the replacement of three bridges, including
their road accesses on the aforesaid sections; and
- Civil works for reconstruction of roads and bridges to be
presented to the Bank before the end of 1983 with their
economic evaluation.
(b) Road Rehabilitation
- Civil works for the rehabilitation of five road sections,
totalling about 185 km; and
- Civil works for rehabilitation of roads to be presented to !:he
Bank before the end of 1983 with their economic evaluation.
(c) Feeder Roads
Civil works for the rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of feeder
roads in the 1983-1985 National Feeder Road Program to be
executed by the Intendencias;



- 13 -
(d) Traffic Safety
Horizontal and vertical signalization of about 250 km of road
sections;
(e) Institution Building and Technical Assistance
Assistance to TPU, Vialidad and AFE through studies, research,
and managerial improvements.
Road and Bridge Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
45.       Recommendations of consultants financed under the previous
Highway loan form the basis for the road and bridge reconstruction element
in MTOP's Five-Year Highway Investment Program, of which important sections
are included in the proposed project. Uruguay's main surface transport
corridors suffer from outmoded and deteriorated road sections and narrow,
vintage bridges. Vialidad has still managed, at high costs, to keep the
roads in a condition that provides traffic, with reasonable service levels.
However, reconstruction and rehabilitation, work cannot be delayed any
longer if a deterioration in service levels, rapidly accelerating vehicle
operation cost and increases in future reconstruction costs are to be
avoided. About 15% of the works to be exe!cuted under the proposed project
are not yet defined although several candidates have been identified. This
procedure has the advantage of giving MTOEP time to develop further its
Five-Year Plan and to refine selections depending on the rate of deteriora-
tion of the various road sections. By the end of 1983 MTOP would submit to
the Bank the list of additional roads and bridges in this category,
together with their economic justification. Disbursement in that respect
shall be made only after the Bank agrees t:o the additional roads selected.
Confirmation of this procedure was obtained during negotiations (section
3.01 (c) of, and paragraph 4 (c) of schedule 1 to, the draft Loan
Agreement).
Feeder Roads Program
46.       The National Feeder Road Program (1982-1984) was approved during
the November 1981 Conclave (the policy-making meeting of Uruguay's civil
and military authorities) and provides na-ional support for the rehabilita-
tion of feeder roads carried out by the Intendencias. The program calls
for rehabilitation of about 1,000 km per :year at a cost of US$13,000 per
Km. Half of the cost of the program is financed by the Intendencias and
half by the Government. The Government has requested Bank support for the
1983-84 program and its extension into 1985. The modus operandi of the
Government and Bank involvement in the National Feeder Road Program was
agreed and summarized in an official document, Feeder Roads Guidelines. It
includes procedures for approval of feeder road investments and a list of
the various subprojects programed for execution in 1983-84. During
negotiations, an agreement was reached with the Government that it will
submit to the Bank by the end of 1983 the list of road sections to be
included in the National Feeder Road Program for execution during 1985,
together with their economic justification, all in accordance with the
Feeder Roads Guidelines. Disbursement of the loan in that respect would be



- 14 -
made only after the Bank is satisfied with the adherence to the Feeder Road
Guidelines, and with the evidence showing that works have been completed
and Government has paid its full share of the cost to the Intendencia in
question, (section 3.01 (d) of, and paragraph 4 (d) of schedule 1 to, the
draft Loan Agreement).
Institution-Building and Technical Assistance
47.       The training of TPU staff provided under the Second Highway
Project, the road and bridges reconstruction study, and the National Trans-
port Plan under preparation by the TPU, provide the building stones for
improved planning and programing. In order to consolidate these achieve-
ments, the proposed project would include annual preparations by MTOP of
rollover Five-Year Highway Investment Plans based on a balanced assessment
of the needs in maintenance, road and bridge rehabilitation, and recons-
truction and construction of national roads and of the National Feeder
Roads Program. Included would be an economic screening and, if need be,
feasibility studies of all proposed major wrks which would enter into the
Plans. During negotiations, the annual updating of the Highway Five-Year
Investment Plans, and meetings with the Bank to discuss these Plans, were
confirmed (sections 3.01 (a) and 3.04 (c) of the draft Loan Agreenent).
48.       Vialidad has experienced a drain on its professional staff,
partly because of emigration and partly by transfers of experienced staff
to the private industry. As a consequence, Vialidad does not have a suffi-
cient number of experienced engineers. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed that MTOP would submit, by July 31, 1983, a plan of action for
strengthening Vialidad's staff and a restructuring plan for MTOP including
a decision on the future location of TPU within MTOP (section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement). MTOP and Vialidad require additional technical
expertise for organizational matters and research work in defining sources
and quality of construction materials; funds for these purposes are
included in the project.
49.       The proposed project includes a study on intermodal transport to:
(a) review Government policies and regulations; (b) recommend neasures to
increase the efficiency of road and intermodal domestic and international
transport in Uruguay; and (c) analyze the economic, financial and technical
feasibility of an intermodal freight consolidation center.Draft terms of
reference for the intermodal study have been agreed on by NTOP and the
Bank. During negotiations, the inclusion of the study in the project and
its terms of reference was confirmed.
50.       The financial and physical condition of the railway and the co-
ordination of its investments and operations with the remainder of the
transport system is of major concern to the Government. TPU, in analyzing
the performance of the railways, concluded that existing railway accounting
practices do not provide a good basis for adequate cost based pricing,
which is essential for future policy decisions concerning the relative
position of railway transport in Uruguay.  In response, the proposed
project includes technical assistance to AFE to establish a cost accounting
system. This technical assistance was confirmed during negotiations, and



- 15 -
the signing of an agreement between MTOP and AFE concerning this assistance
would be a condition of disbursement for these expenditures (section 3.01
(b) of, and paragraph 4 (e) of Schedule I to, the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$137 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$70 million. The local cost compo-
nent of US$67 million includes US$13.7 mLllion in duties and taxes. The
Bank loan would finance US$45 million, or 33% of total costs against a
foreign exchange component of 51%. The Loan amount includes a US$335
thousand front-end fee. Cofinancing funis of US$25 million would be used
to finance the remainder of the foreign exchange requirements. The
Intendencias would finance with their own resources US$20 milion of local
project costs and the Government would finance the remainder of the local
cost component (US$47 million). As a condition of disbursements for the
rehabilitation and reconstruction components, the Government has to reach
one or more agreements with co-lenders, securing US$25 million in funds
needed to complete the financing package for the project (paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). During negotiations, agreement
was also reached to include in the Loan Agreement a provision for a
cross-default clause (section 5.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       The cost estimates are based on July 1982 prices taking into
account the major exchange rate adjustment in December 1982. The estimated
cost for the reconstruction and rehabilitation works is based on
preliminary engineering and current unit prices for similar works. Cost
estimates for the feeder roads are based on the costs of similar works
recently carried out by the Intendencias. Cost estimates for the consul-
ting services are based on recent contracts or man-months rates for similar
services and range from US$3,000 to US$10,000 per man-month (including base
salary, social benefits and overhead) for technicians of different grades
among Uruguayan and international experts. Except for the feeder roads, a
contingency allowance of 15% has been included to cover possible increases
in construction materials. About 23% of the project base cost plus
physical contingencies has been allowed for foreign and local price
increases.   Assuming exchange rate adjustments to compensate for the
difference in local and foreign inflation, the inflation rate would
decrease from 8% in 1983 to 6% in 1986.
Execution, Procurement and Disbursement
53.       MTOP would be responsible for the execution of the project;
Vialidad would be the executing agency for the reconstruction and
rehabilitation works, the Intendencias for the feeder roads, and AFE for
the establishment of a railway accounting system. MTOP will handle
directly the technical assistance fund, and through the TPU, the intermodal
study.
.54.       Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Civil works for reconstruction works
(about US$37 million) would be carried out on the basis of unit price
contracts awarded in accordance with international competitive bidding



- 16 -
procedures. For bidding purposes, the works would be divided into six lots
of road works with the estimated value of individual contracts ranging from
US$4 to US$8 million. Procurement for the road rehabilitation works (about
US$29 million) and the road signalization works would be on the basis of
unit price contracts awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures, giving foreign contractors the opportunity to bid.  The
estimated value of each of the five rehabilitaeion contracts would be
between US$2 and US$5 million. Since the Intendencias have their own
equipment, execution of the feeder roads (US$40 million) by the
Intendencias would generally be by force account with subcontracting of
various tasks.
55.       Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made as follcws:
(a)  33% of reconstruction and rehabilitation works;
(b) 60% of the road signalling works;
(c)  60% of the Government's payments to the Intendencias for
each eligible subproject included in the National Feeder
Road Program; and
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local costs for
technical assistance.
In order not to delay the feeder roads works the Bank would finance
retroactively expenditures under this category after January 1, 1983, up to
US$ 1 million, (paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
56.       The Government confirmed during negotiations that it would
prepare quarterly reports for the Bank providing informntion on: (a) the
progress of detailed engineering, tender and contracting schedules; (b) the
progress of execution of Bank-financed construction and rehabilitation
works; (c) the selection, status of contracts, progress of exeaition and
expenditures of the proposed feeder road program; (d) the status of
disbursement requests; and (e) the schedule of estimated withdraials of the
proceeds of the Loan. Furthermore, the Government confirmed during
negotiations that MTOP would hold semi-annual consultations with the Bank
on subjects related to the carrying out of the project (section 3.04 (c) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       MTOP's internal accounting system is adequate for the
identification and certification of Bank-project-related financial transac-
tions.  Agreement concerning the format, content, frequency and timing of
financial reports were confirmed during negotiations. The internal audit
of MTOP's accounts is carried out by a separate internal audit unit.
External audit of all Government-related transactions is usually the
responsibility of the Tribunal de Cuentas de la Republica, which has a
special unit for foreign-financed projects.   The capacity of the Tribtunal
de Cuentas has been reviewed and found satisfactory. During negotiations
it was confirmed that audit reports would be furnished to the Bank within
six months from the end of each fiscal year (section 4.02 (d) of the draft
Loan Agreement).



-- 17 -
Economic Justification and Risks
58.       The Bank's main overall objec:ives for participation in the
transport sector is to support an exporn:-oriented strategy for Uruguay's
development, and to improve transport coordination. A large part of this
project would deal with the main export corridors to Argentina, Paraguay
and the eastern part of Brazil. It would address the major problem of the
highways sector: high cost of operation because of outmoded infrastructure
and an old transport fleet. A modernization of the fleet is being facili-
tated by liberalized import regulations, while the proposed project would
contribute to the improvement in infrastructure. Furthermore, the project
would contribute to agricultural diversification and a higher value of
production throughupgrading of the extensive but low-standard network of
rural roads.
59.        Of the total of 122 feeder road sections in the current program,
about 42 are impassable more than sixty days per year and another 40
between twenty and sixty days per year. The improvements in the feeder
roads network would result in increased. production: rice and soya-bean in
the northeast, corn in the north and rice and sugar cane in the northwest.
In the more developed west and southwest the program would permit a more
diversified production such as intensive cattle raising (partly for milk
production), combined with grains and citrus fruits.
60.       The main direct benefit of the project would be a reduction in
transport costs, mainly for trucks. Because of the competition within the
trucking industry, cost reductions would largely be passed on to a diversi-
fied group of transport users. The government would also benefit from
reduced maintenance costs. For the various project components, the
estimated rates of return range from 15% to 40% with an overall estimated
rate of return for the project of 26%. A sensitivity test indicates that
rates of return would be at least 11% :if benefits were 20% lower or invest-
ment costs were to increase by 20%. FLrst year returns would be 13% or
higher.
61.       Past experience related to road projects in Uruguay has shown
that delays have been encountered in the tender and contracting stages as
well as in the construction stage of project implementation. In order to
overcome this difficulty, the arrangements and the schedule for the tender-
ing phase of the project were carefully reviewed and agreed. Another risk
is that fiscal constraints might require reductions in the projected
investment levels. An examination of the financial resources of the MTOP
and its planned investment expenditures, indicates that there is a
considerable cushion to reduce investments without affecting the execution
of the project. The feeder program is already in full execution.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS IN AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republica Oriental Del
Uruguay and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in
article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
loan are given in Section III of annex III.



- 18 -
63.       I am satisfied that the Proposed loan would comply with the
articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 26, 1982



- 19 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
URUGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URUGUAY                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. R)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
TOTAL            176.2                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCCME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     156.6              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 800.0      1100.0   2810.0                   1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KIWGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    850.9       1018.5   1218.6                   1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 2531.0       2824.0   2924.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 80.1        82.1      84.0                    65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       3.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         4.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.4        16.0      16.5                    35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     16.2        18.2      18.5                    92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         28.5        28.2      27.3                    39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                         63.9        63.2      62.7                    56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   7.6         8.5      10.0                     4.2                       7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.4         1.1       0.3/c                   2.4                       1.6
URBAN                              1.7         1.3       0.6                     3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.2         21.2      19.9                    31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.3         9.6       9.5                      8.4                      9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              1.4         1.4       1.4                     2.1                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       107.0     102.0                   110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  111.6       113.6    104.8/d                  108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          92.0        92.4      83.87d                   66.0                     92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       61.6        60.0      55.87d                  34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      3.0         2.6       1.8                     5.6                       9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   67.7         68.6      70.7                    64.2                      67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           50.5        46.7      39.7                    64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      84.O)'e                  65.6
URBAN                               ..          ..      91.6O7                  78.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      41.CF e                 43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        82.0      92.0,'e                  59.3
URBAN                                         97.0      94.O7.                   75.3
RURAL                               ..        13.0      76.O,ie                  30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           966.7/f    919.9      537.8                  1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      3477.8   3704.1                    1063.5                    634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            180.9       170.1     166.5                   477.4                     286.8
URBAN                            329.4/f        ..    490.1/g                   679.8                    192.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    690.47                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..      13.0tg                   27.3                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.8/h        ..       3.6te
URBAN                               ..          ..       3.67
RURAL                               ..          ..       4.O..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.5/h        ..       2.lte
URBAN                               ..          ..       2.17i.
RURAL                               ..          ..       2.i7i
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             78.0/h        ..      80.7/e
URBAN                             88. 07h       .       89.27.
RURAL                             29.07h        ..      27.87.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
URUGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page  2  of  5
URUGUAY                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEI {TED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECM  ESTIMiE)  -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIXEEll            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                111.0        112.0     105.0                     104.3                     102.9
MALE                 111.0       115.0      107.0                    106.4                     107.1
FEMALE               111.0       109.0      102.0                    103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  37.0         59.0      59.0                     41.3                       60.2
MALE                  35.0        53.0       44.0                     40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                38.0        65.0       74.0                     41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 22.5           20.6      20.2/e                    33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            32.9         29.5      23.8                     29.9                       25.8
SECONDARY                          12.6           ..        ..                     16.7                       22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        91.0      93.9/e                    79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         39.4         42.8      44.6/1                   42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        316.1        354.1     561.3                    270.5                      157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.9         91.4     124.7                    107.7                      123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 206.9/f      140.0     224.1/e                    63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0            ..         ..                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1014.5       1104.1    1117.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   24.3         27.4      29.7                     24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              20.6         15.2      10.8                     31.3                       38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 29.5         31.2      32.4                     23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                40.1         39.1      38.2                      33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 60.5         57.1       54.6                     50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               19.5         21.3      22.4                      16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         0.9        1.0                      1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          43.4/i    46.7|/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          6.17i     5.s7T
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     697.0                     518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     697.0                    371.1                      406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and ia not uniform.
/b   Unlesa otherwiae noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c Due to emigration., population growth rate ia lower than rate of natural increase; Id 1977; /e 1975;
/f 1962;  /g 1976;  /h 1963;  /i Montevideo region only, estimates are for 1967 and 1976, respectively.
May, 1982



- 21 -                                                                                     ANNEX 1
DEFINTION  OF  OCIALINDIATOWPage    3   of   5
east-   blh~te dat, are dres  fre  sour.es generally lodged the mea  t aulertatie and reIable. it  hoold alto he noted that they toy not be inter-
a-mfacely  bn-rale  ecns  of the lack of  trandardisod definitiana cod concpts used by diffe-ren  cootirie  in callectieg the datm.  The data  r,oe
thtm  emfo  to descths. cedars of mgnitod., indicate treds, and car -trecetin eajer dtffnr-tee  be teee co-tien-
The crfnoc  grloops ar  "1I the non  -oory gtoop of the subject ccotry ond(2) a coontry geo-p cith somewhat higher avrage ione- thao oh, e  ootry grcup
of che -objoot country, (rocept foe   "blobt Lnom-    oil ftpnntera" groo p ehere  MHiddle Income N.e,i Afni-n ond Middle foal' is chose  heb         sao. neoe
-io-...Inure1 afiiis . I  the referroc  grou.p daio the  -n-rge  are ppolenion e-ighned or:..trio toot  fo -eo   indictotr and eh-n  ooly  hen
sejotit yof the    . concen Loagroop htdaafoe that i              o.since the coeo of cotnclts a_on  tin Lodrue.oc  deynode oo the  -nilbilicy of dote
end in not o"iorm  -otiot` tut be enocne   in reltilg avegaof one irdicator to onoihoc.  These snrerno  ore only o..efo1 in comparin  the robe. nf
nee indicator  t a time amog the coon.teyor  rfor etrup..
AME  (ihoonand eq.bn.)                                                                          popular ion pee HonPeIital 1bed-totld. orboc. od total - l'opolatin   (ot
Total - Toini  -ofcaeaortinig land area and LItood cetera; 1979 dona.                           oro,nd rurl) divie  byI tinto renpectine numberiof hoepita1 inde
Agrioultorel - lEtinete of ogriculturo1 area teed temporarily or pornetily                      acoilabie in public end yrfete gonerol and  pociolod ih.pito1 endre
fur cr ps,potoons. -aot od kitc~hen tardena or to lie flo;1979 data-                         hailitationoetmr . gpitals tee aetbliebh-nt  yermattly ateffed
by on lean  one piyico       .  tnbllb-tot  ycvlidiog Principaly lo tte
iffy Pf0 CAPITA fUS$)I - GN P pee cepita o-ieta            --crrc  maker pyeen, cal-              dilcreaent included.  fufoe  ol cpitols, ho'renr  include hcaith
oulaned by som  -o-enio  method on corldto  Atlee (1979480 hoeio); 1960.                        aod nedicaI  eoitert oct permnetly ~ttffnd by u phcynctio (hot by
1970, and 1990 data.                                                                            mdical ...niatont. ourne, nidtife. etc.)  hfioh cffcerl-oiorooe
doto- nod provide e  alted range of medIcal  Iclt .Foctr in
ENERGYT CONSUMPTION PERf CAPITA - nA--l cot.tiomolo  of  .o..ri          . eery (cool             ticel purpotee orbon hoaPisola Lociodo WHfO. principo1/geo..e  boshpitole,
and lint. ptroleom  ncuro1 got cod bydro-. .. 1ocou  aod o-therno  eec-                         aod  -oce  hoepitele. lanai 0r rurol hoyitule and medical on  oat.rrity
cric ity ) to bilogreto of coal1 eqir-leoc Per capIta; l96e, 1970, end 1979                       Itrmm.  Speciolieod hcempitle are i-clodod only oudec too_1
don.-And.leSco  per Hospita1 fed - Total nombor of odninoton  to cc dieihrg-n
from hospinala diniand by tie nuance of boed.
PPUyLA.TION ANDS VITAL STATISTICS
TotalPooaroo   id-Yeer (rheos-del - in of July 1; l960. 1970. ond lane0                     001100NG
don.tveag  Sine of ffoshcld  p.r.ot. per booehold)   total, orbIo, and cra-.
Urhan  -oueno   roco  of tocol) - Patio of urban to total populotion;                           A b,tnobold, onists ofagru  of todividoel  nbc ehuve linieg qanrtern
dlfrn    eiutios  of rban areetoy eYffect coptobiliny of data                         ed there. meals.  A hoarder or ledger say on  Ioyco  in inclodod to
amog  -ontetee; 1960. 1970, end 1980 data,                                                    the foot..hold for  ttoiotical  ~puron..
Porolotion Proinosooon                                      ivrronnoterofecrnorn  yen coom-totol, uchoo, an  rut-l - evrage  ue
Porol tiveto  e   floe - Corret populuft100 projectieoe ate booe.d -c1980                      herIof Feen1prcont   l  oboe, and rural . occpedcnetoa
tonal popolation by age oud  -e  and their mertallty and fertility rtadeig,r-epeoci-ely.  lenlllngeoctlode.no..-porsaoetstroctor_oaod
Projection perumter. f on  _to lity ostas  -prtee of titan lence  mett                     oto-cpled ports.
ing life epectau  a,t hitch iocrnaetiegnitb   -_otp'  pr  uito tcom                      Accosstc  Electricity (percent od deoliosog) - tota.1 orbon. and r ...l -
*                       level,~1  .    and femal  lien tesoyotub'iletg at 77.5 ypence.  Th. pore-                  Ionoloa   llnnithnIn-trituty  In livang quavtero  .p                     -Z
meters doe fertility rote olno bne- tirre..I ecl    -Innto  doclie  in                     of ntol,  rben, nod  uroro  deellinge ce-p-tivoly.
fer tility   -.rrdine tv 1-om  len   nod past fo-tlp  Ine    porforsonre
Each C.-Ley in theo oseigned one of tbhen ooineoni-atiene  of mortality                EDUCATIOt
Seed fe rtiplity tresds f or projection. porp.nca.                                          doo.d Enrollmet Ration
utLoncry  toooion - Ic o  nnooypopulation there ien %gro.-h  ioce                           Primayshal-tta,ml and fomol  - Drono tote1, tale  od fe-1e
the birth rate In eqoo  no tin danch cto, and also the age erocteIt   e-                      on, ollmeot ofal gr    t th  primacyleve   onpe-cn-ge  of ronp-ctlv-
maa  _on enon.  Thin i  ocifevd only aftec frtilttY rates decline to                          yr Uecey  obool-ag. popolettoo..; croly iInLoaco childron tgcd 6-11
thc roplocemet leve  of anic  -tc reprodectio  rotn. oh.. etch gen..eatioc                    feces bot ndj--td for did fereet leogtin of pimary  ,,edctio;for
of enme  .ePI-ce. itned evactlp.  The otetionry populutie  _tetcotrien oith oninerea1 edantiocc-nllmen  may enceod L0  pe.rceonI
e  lioed on the hoaie of tho projocted      ..taacerieti.a of th   eoa-o lc  som  ppilo ure below or  bove tbe offllu1 echoul af.
inthe ynr ye0, and tir rote od dolla  of ftLIo fote cv roploon-                           Sanoodarvncboo-  - totl    .ml and f.emln    Copoted on  bonr;  -ecodory
anec lnnel.                                                    ndutation cequicenoc Iroec roan..,e.. yao0f approved primany iecoi
Year etatiencY peoplatilc loroocied - The year talo  statleny popufoctecprve  generl.` oc- iocl, or teacher trulioig   atctoefor popiln
nice  Ill he reahed.                                                                           -.Italy of 12 no 17 peture of ugc; torroepond-ne coone  ore  oeal
PPoplocio- Senity                                                                                 -ocoded.
Per on. kn. -Ktid-yoor popolutloo per eq.... kilomter (150 hoctoros) of                      ociolrcomnt(corro  of  ...oodaryl - vocational ttiuin
total ore; lO60. 190 and107  dan.                                                           icoud  cenotoL, inoclel, or otbo  pFgru  wIh operont  rdepoed-
Pot an.he  agriultral land - Compotrdouu bor   for arnocrL looS                                1cy or en apertenota of o-codaryiotntoe
ony;19 1. 10an1979 dote                                                           Pe-eAnher rat  -pOe.ad  -ecodary-Ttoaodneroedi
Porolotioe ode Stroc.t-r  (percent) -ChIldren  f0-li peaer.)  orkinf-oge (15-                   prfayodaceoylvl   iie   yereoo   sceoI  te
64  ev)   n   eie   (65 yearn ond oc-) on peroetage  of mid-year popo-                        coroen.poodlo  lvoa
Lanior;I18.1970, and l9tS dota.                                                             Adult literucy cute (petoro) - Literote odInt.  ohle to nead ond -taci)
Popu~laion ic1~loo  tote (perceot) - toto1 - honoul gronch  atra- of totol mid-                oapercentogo of total adult populotio  oged  5ypo.re and over.
yea  pyaotn for fOSS-CS  1060-P.., and ...7..01
Population iroth Rtor  (poroet) -orba   - inoou   grocthbracee of -rion Pope-               CO0N7U47105
loticna for 1950160, 1960-70,an  1970-80.                                                  Penne gor Corn (per tho...and popolatio) - Pa..Iongr crer c-prine motor
Crude  Sir th Rton  (por thooaond)   A inna  ILv  ibt-ho per chootud nf  id-yoor                cent. netiog leot thun eight pe          ...;ec loden uabo1-ct, beur.oenord
papnlat"a"; 1960' 1970, atd 1080 doto.                                                        silt trporicee
Crude feoth Rtoc  (pea thcouaud  -   .u..u Iedsth  Per ohun-cd  of and-year                   todn   cevre  pa  tiouaeod po -lln   - All types of r-civece for redio
pootin;191O,EIlOll, ond 1980.dufa                                                       brn-.dcats  ognclpb    per theead ofppulatc  enladraon
Ern    toerdotin  toe -i-ruo   coaler of d.aohce-oooaoill boar Ic                                 ..cned reorinora In coetio  ocd leLoo Y    oi ho regitrti.on of tdic
ho  nrolrerdotaepeio   f  hetpeioce  reot  g-specifiC fo-                             et.ooin  fet  dc o  recent p.ro  any not he comporoblt ene
tilts prunes; umoolly five-petoeogentg  olb.1970,. ud 198.                                    met; cuntrien uhelihed licentieg.
fally,       2 P io-hAoceptoro. in...l (sbo...a.de) - in-.I ottbhe  of  coPtora               TVT to' etnero(perp   ..ouancp poroltion) - TV rece-rer  tor bro-d-on  to
of  brth-otl deoIcescoeaopeef oa  0                      aiypaon   rgran.                     ge;vlrbi   e  icadpoplosot    coludts olicenoed TV' -ect-re
P-slyv Planotoc-OTte   (pecr= t ofcone  woan  - Perro..toge of maried                           ito,uuteadt   er   ie   ettonoo   ntr   o
tneno  child-hearing age (15-44 yeuro) who on  birti-.ctoo   droIce  to                 Nenpu,por Circolutou  (per tbooaaod popolutloc) - Oboes tic  -veroecir-
all morcied coma  in  -m  Ego group.                                                          C-lI.ten of "daily genera  internt ne.c.p.p.r". dofiord anpor ldical
pob Licocic donteod pcimatily to re..ordlee general Ioen. It Is -anidered
POODS AND0 NUTRITISSi                                                                             to !,e "daily" if ito uppots at leuo.t four time  u eceb.
loden of Food Produnion Pre  Corctu (1060-71..100) - Ide  of Par capita  on-uA(Coco  inuo  intand.oa...                      Cat te  erY..or- o...d vo the nomber of
Pr IoI.a of atl food co-ditino.,P-utoenldaned and fend end                                    tictto. sold dorfg lie poor. icclnditg admituol  onedriv-Ccclcinese
Ce00 Ioed-r yearhal s           -onditiencoren ptieary go0dn (o.e. sog.rc...                  oed mobile enlts.
intead  ongu)hichar  ediblo  ord contain nutrlecte  (e.g. .offS.o  and
tea aencluded).  Aggrogote prodectno. nf,Lcohcoonrry in band on                          L.ABfR FIRCf
Isti=al etag  poodoce.. ptir  nnht5h; 196_-5,170. od ooen dote.                            Pota Labor minc  (niounenda)                      - ccmclyatIon p-oo.-  oo-ludiu
Per cupito a-pyly of c_Lorita (porce.o  of ceo.irra tca  - lopted fro Ir-d demon, anduemloedbt e-cldiog ioetnt   tdest. etc..
energy noot-l-et of eet food noppl:en analoble in co..nscy Per c..pita                        co.t r ing  .popuuio  of all ogr..        o lfloloioos '. v_rtoos     Loncic  are
pro day.AvaIlable eopplir  cortn  dometic predoctioc. imports loan                           co  r-mPorable; 1906, tOPS and 109 dac.-
.eP rte,no  cnen to stock.  Net nupplie- enclde uetnol f ad, neds.                           Peelo Ceerceot) - Pa.-le laborf Ic asperc-ntug  of totel labor f or-o
qonitir  cod to food proor-sin8. and Ilo.eoo  so dintribUroc.neure-                          Agylocr   pret)-Lbrtrei  fo-etg, forresry,  -ionig end
moon eeee etimeted by PAP b .e.d an physiological neede for novnc1 aci-                           Lehing us pernetuge of rtota  labor foote; 1961, 1070 an  1980 dota.
ityr and heeli rho...odeteerocoateerori,hopceehnaeInduety (rerrect) -    or forre in  iotolo, rnrr Cn                                                          -mefoturtng
andseeditrlitio   ofPopoaioo, and ol11-lg 17 percetr for vaceatad elersticity.ctrodagtpeecaof total lobor force;
hooso.bold leel  1981415. 1970 ac  9197  dataI.lONe.0 1971 and  gfOCone.
Pet n-pio nop.ply ot prtlt(romo Per day) - Pootoin c_te_  of per _oylca                      PartoitienPaoIpren)     otl                   mar.ad featPatcptio  or
net supply of fand per day.  Net -opply of food to defined on above.  Pa-                    actvity eateore- copeedatal  mae, d fesulo lbhr fcrceo
qui ree_tc  for oI  cotrc  eatoiheid by Itoh  -roida fur etimam                               pt,cnotage  of total, mole ond femlt poyclution of all tece reoretlely;
alloc-e  of 61 groa  of tota  protein per doy und 20 Stom o-f enimu  nod                     1960, 1707g. ad 1901 data.  Th.sn..      hone.d ton IfO.d'  patlotyo.tio  cres
puls   poetofwich 11 groe- ohotad bt ocimal protein. ItO es  e ad-                            retootn    g-e nLtr_ct-  of the ppluatec., and  o.g rime trond.A
orda are 1er thanh hiea  of 71 grome  f totul p.rotic and 23 groa  of                         fc   sioo    ro fee tl.. nun .ons   sorces.
_i_ml proteCt an an anonog  forthctrtd, propond by PAP to the Thlnd                        fontoir Doprodenop Rtot  - Patio of popelatien andor 11 and 65 aed ever
Wforld Pond Soney; 1061-65, 1907  ona 1077 darn,                                              to the total leban ter-e
Per canto  rti  eupplyfo   oc ladpls-Prot.el  eupply of foof de-
riTnd frm nieeadypeSr  in Rrxem  Perdy  1961416, 1970 aed 1971 data.                     INCOMEtI tSTRIBUTION
Child (once 1-4) heath Rtot  (per thoad)  A-,.nua  I'eunh' per thocoand in                    Pern-togc of Pricte Income (both in cnh and bind) - tRe-vod by richeet
oge group 1-4 yanra. to children. in tie ago groep , f or moot don-oping cot                     pecn,r    2ha   0 percent, poor.re  20 percent, oed pooe-  4f perree.n
ticte  date deriurd foo  life tablet; 1960. 1070 aod 1900 date.                              of houneho,da.
OREAL                                                                                         POVEirT TARGET PGROUPS
LIft 1    tnroneo  an Birthlcae    A-irege cober of yearn of life retaining                   li.lolgetmcooe ry opproninuta    a                      Iae  opvety le-el,
ethri;16, 1070 and 1900 do.te,                                                         en  ahoud be interpreted niob conidorobleoni
- lot nt Mortality gton  feet tincund) - Annual deothn of isfuoro uodc  oce yeor                Intimted  inalte  o-erey2 teom  levo  .OSS per cpuotuf -orbaon cod rural-
of ago perr nn ie    hri;106e, 10701 and. 19f               ea.                              Abt-luts ponrt  inco ,me  ,nnl `e tho  incm   leve  helo  chic          Inia
Anreta to dar   oterPfern:f oouo)-ttl                    Ioio   n  rool-uo-                     o:rcttnealIr adocote dIet plot es         iot van-fond revo=irato ta not
her ef People (total, urban, and  utarol  eithtioeeeanleoc    to  aeo  odie
cater sapply fin-ludee treated mnrfae meters or otn..atcd hue  --ronmiatd                   Eatisoted Beaier  Poerty Io-a  Level (f5  per caPito) -urba  nod rurol1
meter :an-a :.thati deo   prtoird b-orblee, eprnga. ood naItoep wela) on                      t-al relatIon per-ry incom  leveL.I on-third of averge Per apta
perceetuge  of their rnpe.tric  popoinnivee.  I.aorbon  ar  a publit                          penomal Incom  of the coantry.  Trios leceI Ce deriad f ra  the rural
faan-ei  or ateedpoot buncoed no  merc rise P00 tonr, hfro                   b ane  a  heI-te  cith           os    for biaher cos  of licing in orb o   cet
tomeidr.ede ::being  itiho reesomble  -ccea  eftshet hoIe   i  rnoIreas                    fothuad Popetasion telomAhe-lete Poverty Income Levl.            ecnt      r
ra_ee_ele      _.eo  c_ld isply thot the ho-ecft or m-erer  of she he...ehold                ant ranal   P.rreot ofPpaplatte  (otbac and  roro) wh   re "onoa
do not hare to eped a dinpropertlocte poet of the day  in fetching the                        P0
fo=ly, meter eada.
daesto nocet  Din-eo     e rctol--    cerf aToy-total urine  endtotl
Wate.r ef people (ttl,oban. and rural)l served by ancrts dlepol as 
Pereese  of their r=eottce poennrti-    Pa-rer  dinpe.m.l top LInide
and emte-tair by eete-r-heo  syote    on tie ocr of pit priniec and sii-
t'aaleio  pe Pbeiian-  opolotito  dicidedby eatber of pratiefog physt-                                                      fEnet.ic sin Sacil DeCa fDinfeto
ciea qnli td fom    mdicoT-nho1 at  nierity lecci,                                                                     ate    Aclysfa and atroern inns Deporteet
Pereletine ea     -rInog Person - Popeletleedivided by  ae  of pre-ttetg                                                                         Ngy 1982
tot  cod fate   odnte naee,  niseat  neme,  rotioni eurme  ord
macsing& eamitiel..



- 22 -                                                                        Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of US dollars)
Actual              Estimated      Projected       Average Annual Growth Rate I/   As Percent of GDY
1978      1980       1981       1982       1983      1986    1972-76  1977-81   1982-86-   1978    1982             1986
NATIONAL ACCOUN'TS                                        At 1979 Prices & Exchange Rates
Cross Domestic Products                       6,423      7,314     7,229       6,606      6,656     7,501        3.6      4.3        3.4         100.0  101.4    100.6
Gains from Terms of Trade()                        3    - 128      - 174       -  88      -  81       -46         .         .                      -      -1.4     -0.6
Gross Domestic Income                         6,-426     7,-186    7,-046     69,-518    -6,575     7,455        0.7      4.2        3.8         100.0  100.0    100.10
Imports (Inc. NPS)                            1,201      1,727     1,696       1,326      1,246     1,341        3.2     10.2        0.7          18.7   20.3      18.0
Exports ("          )(Capacity to Import)  1,183         1,247     1,386       1,067      1,182     1,562       -1.4      8.1        9.6          18.4   16.4       21.0
Resource Gap                                      18       480        310        259         64      -221          .        .                      0.3    3.9      -3.0
Consumption Expenditures                      5,556    6,232       6,072       5,790      5,680     6,175        0.9      4.4        1.8          86.5   88.8       82.8
Investment Expenditure (Intl.  Stocks)           888     1,434     1,284         987        959     1,059       11.7      9.5        2.0          13.8    15.1      14.2
Domestic Savings                                 870       954        974        728        895     1,280        4.1      6.3       15.1          13.5    11.2      17.2
National Savings                                 785       828        749        450        609     1,020        2.0      8.4       22.8          12.2     6.9      I3.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                           Annual Oats at Current Prices                                                    As Z of Total M4erchandise
Expenditure 
Imports
Capital Goods                                 124        299       229         III        119       161         ..     20.7       10.2          16.0    9.9      11.3
Intermediate Goods (Excl. Fuels)              389        777       618         432       450        566         .      21.5        7.0         50.3   38.5       39.9
Fuels & Related Materials                     219        473       516         466        480       547         ..     30.6        4.0          28.3   41.5      38.5
Consumption Goods                              42        178       249         114        105       146         ..     20.7        7.5           5.4   10.1      10.3
Total Merch.Imports (cif)                     7 74     1, 727    1,-612      1,1 23     ~1,154    1 ,4-20    31 .1    2i7 .0      -6.3        100o .0  10 0.0   1-00.0
Exports
Primary Products (Excl. Fuels)                380        644       843         645        736     1,090         .      25.0       13.6         55.4   67.1    62.3
Manufactured Goods                            306        415       373         316        389       660         ..     11.8       20.1          44.6   32.9      37.7
TYotal Merch. Exports (fob)                  -68-6   71, 0-59    1, 216       9§6-1   -1 ,125    -1,750      T22.8     20-.0      1-5.9       -10-0.0  100o.0    100.0
Tourism                                       137        298       283         106        160       235       17.9     28.9       20.2          20.0    11.0     13.4
Merchandise Trade Indices
Export Price Index                             82.5      120.1     119.8       114.9      124.0     157.0      3.1     13.3        8.2
Import Price Index                             82.1      125.8     136.8       133.1      139.0     159.0   24.0       16.1        4.5
Terms of Trade Index                          100.5       95.5       87.6       86.3       89.2      98.7  -16.9       -2.4        3~.5
Export Volume Index.                          105.5      111.9      128.8      106.2      115.0     142.0    16.1       5.8        7.3
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                           Annual Oata at 1979 Prices and Exchange Rates                                                      As % of of Total
Agriculture and Fishing                          752       865        873        829        845        925       3.6      3,2        2.8          13.6    14.6      14.4
Industry and Construction                     1,693      1,979     1,891       1,639      1,730     2,030        3.6      4.6        5.5          30.7   28.9      31.5
Services                                      3,071      3,413     3,412       3,207     3,150      3,490        3.5      4.5        2.4          55.7   56.5      54.1
Total GOP (At Factor Cost)                    5,516      6 ,2 57   6-,17-6     5 ,6 77    5,7 25    6,445        3.-6    4.          34100.0  -1700.0 - 10 0. 0
PUBLIC FINANCE (In Constant US$)                                                                                                                     As % of GDP
(General Government)
Current Receipts                            1,535      1,602     1 ,7 27     1,354     1,550      1,820        9.7     10.0        5.6          23.9   20.5      24.3
Current Expenditures                        1,407      1,412     1,634       1,704     1,530      1,580       10.3      9.2      -1.3           21.9   25.8      21.1
Budgetary Savings                            71-28       190       -93       --3 50      -20        -240        .         .                      20    5-5.3    3-~.2
Other Current Public Sector                   351        261        173         40        126       150        ..       3.5       31.8           5.5     0.6      2.0
Public Sector Investment                      511        415       434         443        346       390       35.6    -1.4       -1.7            8.0    6.7       5.2
SELECTED INDICATORS                          1960-65       1965-70       1970-75       1975-80
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)
Average ICOR                                    17.01          4.56         15.49          3.43
Import Elasticity                              -7.25           6.19          1.51          3.92
M4arginal Domestic Savings Rate                  1.50        -0.46           1.11          0.30
Marginal National Savings Rate                   1.40         -0.49          0.93          0.26
Total Labor Force                        Value Added Per Worker (1975 Prices & Exc. Rates)
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER               In Millions        % of Total        Growth Rates        In US Dollars       Percent of Average         Growth Rate
1963  1975          19~63  1975       1963-75             1963    1975          1963      1975           1963-1975
Agriculture                                     0.18  0.21         17.9   19.8           1.3              2,366  1,762           0.79      0.60            -2,2
Industry                                       0.26  0.31         25.7   29.0            1.5              3,519  3,439           1.18      1.16            -0.2
Service                                        0.56  0.55         56.4   51.2          -0.2               2,932  3,143          0.98       1.06             0.6
Total                                           1.00  1.-07      10 0.0  100o.0          0.6              2,983  2,957           1.00      1.00            -0.1
not applicable.- nill or negligible.
not available.                 -  less than half the smallest unit shown.
I/  Log least squares estimates                                                                               January 1983



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTINCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual               Estimated                    ProJected                   Growth Rate,
1978       1979        1980        1981    1982          1983       1984       1985      1986      1982-1986
SUMIARY BALANCE OF PAYMgNTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                   896.0    1,174.3    1,526.0    1,721.6   1,260.C    1,515.0   1,710.0   1,940.0   2,250.0             15.6
Imports (incl. NFS)                   947.4    1,431.6    2,126.3    2,036.6   1,545.C    1,500.0   1,620.0   1,760.0   1,925.0              5.7
Resource Balance                      -51.4      -257.3     -600.3      -315.0    -285.0         15.0       90.0      180.0     325.0
Factor services (net)                 -76.7       -55.0       -95.5      -73.8    -240.0       -400.0    -400.0    -380.0    -415.0         14.7
Current transfers (net)                 1.3         1.5         2.0         2.0       2.0         2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0         -
Balance on current accounts          -126.8      -310.8     -693.8      -386.8    -523.0       -383.0    -308.0    -198.0       -88.0     -36.0
Private direct investment             128.8       215.5       289.5       110.0      50.0        50.0       60.0      65.0       70.0        8.8
Official capital grants                 5.8         5.6         6.7         7.7       8.4         9.0        9.5      10.0       10.0        4.5
Public MLT loans
Disbursements                       416.0       182.0      251.5       291.9      193.5       385.3     325.0      295.0      235.0       5.0
Repayments                          366.1        54.8       90.2        52.7      106.0       155.0     225.0      230.0      250.0      23.9
Net Disbursements                      49.9       127.2       161.3       239.2      87.5       230.3      100.0      65.0      -15.0
Other capital 1/                      -29.2        -9.0       372.8        54.1    -243.1       -56.3      138.5      58.0       23.0
Change in reserves (- - increase)   -28.5         -28.5     -136.5       -24.2      620.2       150.0         -         -          -
Actual               Estimated
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE            1978       1979     1980      1981     1982
Public debt out. & disbursed  793.6    922.7   1,080.3   1,311.6   1,680.0
GRANTS AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                            Interest on public debt        60.5      69.0      100.7     120.7      144.0
Est.     Repsyments on public debt   366.0        54.8       90.2      52.7      106.0
1978       1979        1980      1981   1982      Total public debt serice   426.5    123.8         190.9      173.4     250.0
Public M&LT loans
IBRD                                9.7        50.5       74.0      70.0    -
IDA                                  -           -          -         -      -
Other ajltilateral                 29.7        35.5       30.2    103.0   10.0   Burden on export earnings (%)
Governments                          -           -        80.1      -
Suppliers                          10.9         2.4        8.0       3.4    ..       Public debt service            47.6      10.5      12.5       10.1       19.8
Financial institutions            214.9       130.6      129.7    156.6
bonds                                -           -          -       50.0    ..       Total Debt Service  2/         51.9      16.3       15.9      19.1       40.1
Public loans n.i.e.                              -
Total public M6LT loans           400.2       219.0      322.0    583.0    ..    Averag- terms of public debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec._311981                  Int. as 2 prior year D0&D       8.2       8.7       10.9      11.2       11.0
EXTERNAL DEBT                    Disbursed Only              Percent                   Amorc. as 1 prior year D00D  49.7         6.9        9.8       4.9        8.1
World Bank                           70.1                     5.3
IDA                                    -                       -                   IBRD dAnbt out. & disbursed
Other mltilateral                   108.5                     8.2                      as 2 public debt 0&D          9.3       8.0       6.7        5.3        4.0
Governments                         137.1                    10.5                      as 1 public debt service    3.2        11.5        6.9       8.9        5.7
Suppliers                            31.3                     2.4
Financial institutions              698.7                    53.3
Bonds                               265.9                    20.3
Public debts n.i.e.
Total public MALT debt            1,311.6                   100.0
not applicable                           e staff estimate
not available                            - nil or negligible
.n. not avilable separately                 -- less than half the
but included in total                       smllest mho,n
1/ Including errors and omissions.
2/  Including private non-guaranteed and short-term debt.                                     January 1983



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
A. Statement of Bank loans (as of August 31, 1982)
(US$ million)
Amount
Loan                                                      (Less cancellations)
No.     Year   Borrower                Purpose            Bank   Undisbursed
Loans fully disbursed                                     172.1
1176    1975  Rep. Oriental   Industrial Development
del Uruguay      and Export Expansion    20.8         .2
1594    1978  Rep. Oriental   Vocational Training
del Uruguay      and Technological
Development               9.7       9.7
1689    1979  Rep. Oriental   Second Highway
del Uruguay                               26.5      20.2
1779    1979  Admlnistracion  Fifth Power
National de
Usinas y
Transmisiones
Electricas                                24.0      19.9
1831    1980  Rep. Oriental   Agricultural
del Uruguay      Development              24.0      20.0
1930    1980  Rep. Oriental   Second Industrial
del Uruguay      Project                  30.0      29.7
1978    1980  Administration
Nacional de
Puertos       Montevideo Port              50.0      49.5
2033 1/ 1981 Administracion
Nacional de
Telecom.      Telecommunications          40.0      40.0
Total (net of cancellations)               397.2
of which has been repaid                 129.9
Total now outstanding           4.6        267.3
Amount sold
of which has been repaid    4.5            0.1
Total now held by Bank                     267.2
Total undisbursed                                    189.4
1/ Not yet effective



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. Statement of IFC Investments - August 31, 1981
Fiscal                                   Type of        (Amount in US million)
Year             Obligor                Busilness        Loan   Equity   Total
1976     Fabrica Uruguaya de       Motorvehicles         3.80      -       3.80
Neumaticos                and accessories
1979     Acodike Supergas S.A.   Chemicals and            .95      -         .95
petrochemi cals
1979     Astra Pesquerias          Food processing       4.65    0.75      5.40
Uruguayas S.A.
1980     Sur Invest Casa           Money and capital  10.00    0.59    10.59
Bancaria S.A.             market
Total gross commitments                       19.40    1.34       20.74
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                         1.96      -         1.96
Net held by IFC                               17.44      1.34    18.78
Total undisbursed                              4.50       -        4.50
C. Projects in Execution
As of August 31, 1982, there were 7 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
1594     Vocational Training and Technological Development: US$9.7 million
loan of June 23, 1978; Effective date: April 27, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. Implementation of the project suffered from
frequent management changes and civil works design problems.  Part
B of the project (technological development) is now moving rapidly
and project completion is expectEd by June 1985, two years behind
schedule. In Part A (vocational training) no concrete action has
been taken in equipment tendering, technical assistance or in the
urgent remodelling of training facilities obtained from the
Government under a long-term lease.  Rapid turnover in project
managers continues and no disbursements have been made. The next
supervision mission will determine if a recommendation for
cancellation of this component (IfS$2.9 million) should be made.



- 26 -
ANNEXII
Page 3 of 4
1689   Second Highway Project: US$26.5 million loan of June 27, 1979;
Effective Date: December 27, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a delay in project start, civil works are now progressing
well. Construction works are over 40% completed and should be
finalized in early 1984, roughly in line with original estimate.
The technical assistance to the Transport Planning Unit is showing
satisfactory results in strengthening transport planning within
MTOP.
1779   Power V:  US$24.0 million loan of March 6, 1980; Effective Date:
December 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Project
execution is about two years behind schedule, due to difficulties
during the procurement process and to a nine month delay on the
effectiveness of the loan. Execution is now proceeding
satisfactorily. All consultants have completed their assignments
satisfactorily; the energy study is expected to be awarded before
year end and its results would be available towards the end of
1983. The closing date has been postponed by one year.
1978   Montevideo Port:  US$50.0 million loan of March 6, 1980; Effective
Date: February 26, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983. The
project is about 1.5 years behind schedule. The delay in loan
effectiveness was caused by the need to meet covenants aimed at
institutional reform, such as the tariff system. Retendering of
some major items of the project, coupled with changes in ANP's top
management officers, caused further delays. Technical Assistance
included in the project is moving slowly. Due to the fact that most
of the loan is allocated to equipment, disbursements up to date
correspond mainly to contracts already awarded for small
cargo-handling equipment. Reflecting recent progress, the bulk of
disbursements will start shortly when the major contracts are
awarded. In view of the delays, completion is now expected in
mid-1984.
1831   Agricultural Development:  US$24.0 million loan of April 22, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1986. The project is being implemented slowly. Since
effectiveness, the livestock and crop sectors have been in a
depressed state due to low international prices and to decreased
internal demand. The overvaluation of the peso has also been an
important factor in reducing producer incomes while the general
political and economic uncertainty has reduced demand for long
term investment credit. Only 4.0 million has been disbursed to
date. A recent amendment to the Loan Agreement would improve the
credit terms under the loan and thereby, it is hoped, stimulate
investments.
1930   Second Industrial Credit:  US$30.0 million loan of January 19, 1981;
Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
While this loan only became effective in 1982, committments already
amount to US$6.6 million, reflecting a large initial project
pipeline. However, the level of loan demand is expected to slow
down through 1983 because of the adverse general economic
conditions.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
2033   Telecommunications:  US$40.0 million loan of September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30 1986. This loan is not yet effective awaiting
signing of the contract with management consultants which is
expected in the near future.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
URUGUAY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:             12 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:           Vialidad within MTOP
in cooperation with
the TPU
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:            September 1980
(d)  First mission to review project:           May 1981
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:            February 1982
(f)  Departure of Post-Appraisal Mission:       August 1982
(g)  Completion of negotiations:                December 21, 1982
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness:             May 31, 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)   The Borrower will continue to maintain the national roads
adequately and will allocate yearly the required funds, which
shall not be lower, in real terms, than the funds spent for
that purpose in 1982 (Para. 33);
(b)   MTOP would be given an opportunity to comment on all major
investments in land transport prior to their approval, and
that consultations will be held between MTOP and the Bank on
transport coordination and land transport investments (Para.
36);
(c)   By December 31, 1983, the Borrower will submit to the Bank
the list of additional roads and bridges together with their
economic justifications (Para 45);



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)   By December 31, 1983, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank
the list of road sections to be included in the National
Feeder Road Program for execution during 1985, together with
their economic justification and in accordance with the
Feeder Roads Guidelines (Para. 46);
(e)   The Borrower shall update annually the Highway Five-Year
Investment Plan, and shall hold meetings with the Bank to
discuss them (Para. 47);
I                  (f)   MTOP would submit, by July 31, 1983, a plan of action for
strengthening Vialidad and a plan related to the
restructuring MTOP, including the relocation of TPU within
MTOP (Para. 48); and
(g)   MTOP would hold semi-annual meetings with the Bank in
subjects related to the carrying out of the project (Para.
56).
2.      The signing of an agreement between MTOP and AFE concerning the
technical assistance to AFE to establish a cost accounting system would be
a condition of disbursements for these expenditures. (Para. 50).
3.      A condition of disbursements for the rehabilitation and
reconstruction components of the loan would be that the Borrower has
reached agreement with one or more co-lenders, securing US$25 million in
funds needed to complete the financing package for the project. (Para.
51).
4.  The Bank would finance retroactively Expenditure for feeder road works
made after January 1, 1983, up to a total of US$1 million (para. 55).






r~~~~~~_                      _            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ =   = _ _ _=           -   =~  :       ---  --   - ;  -         -~-t-
<       w> ;i  ;fg:   it:i:iCi0  f   :i :X:i    Y       
[     fji    ir.  yi;  ftt   ; ;i ;g;if  y;i7 
t    fl    'I  Nh                                                  <  /     h- -Seo-_             S        S       jt!: -
~~~0  4:t                                                               ECiLl/s -  :iA= '1! iA'
K                                                 /                                          >yr 1  - }X/N|  
';-  'k%v>fq oE;-/N <1                                                                 I                                         EX,=  I
''SE'WS,5 X42> :~F
'/           K                  -                                                                  IC -'"'X f= t-s' 
,' -Oa,.                           N                   *X  ,N-  .                                     t/ OLo=  '   , ;==
Nt/                                    i                                                                      .<cwt I AIr 
*~~~~~~0    -                                         1     S-- 
S                                                       /:       0    : i t_                                           :l G - . b R C 3
..    __           _=            o w.u e_ _______ __ ______ _    _     ___ - ___------_    _-    -     __   ___



