                                           Report No. INSP/R2003-0003


   Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
           Intemational Development Association




                                                           INSP/25734




 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION

                IN RESPONSE TO THE

   INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT




                      CAMEROON

PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT
                 (LOAN NO. 7020-CM)

                          AND

            PETROLEUM ENVIRONMENT
  CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT (CAPECE) PROJECT
                (CREDIT NO. 3372-CM)




                      May 28,2003


               MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
   IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
                                           OF THE
                                        CAMEROON
            PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT
                                  (LOAN NO. 7020-CM)
                                             AND
   PETROLEUM ENVIRONMENT CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT (CAPECE)
                                         PROJECT
                                 (CREDIT NO. 3372-CM)


Pursuant to paragraph 23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel (IBRDResolution
93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6)'attached for consideration by Executive Directors is
Management's Report and Recommendation in response to the findings set out in the
Investigation Report No. 25734 dated May 2,2003, of the Inspection Panel on the captioned
Projects in Cameroon-Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (Loan No. 7020-CM) and
Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project (CreditNo. 3372-CM).


               MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                                           IN RESPONSE TO THE
           INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT NO. 25734
                                                     CAMEROON
            PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT
                                       (LOAN NO. 7020-CM) AND
          PETROLEUM ENVIRONMENT CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT
                    (CAPECE) PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 3372-CM)


                                                         CONTENTS

Abbreviationsand Acronyms             ......................................................................................................    iv
I.      Introduction .......................................................................................................................     1
11.     Status of the Projects       ........................................................................................................    1
        Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project...................................................................................            1
        Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project ...............................................                              3
111.    Findings of the Panel        ........................................................................................................    4
IV.     Management'sAction Plan in Responseto the Findings                                         ............................................ 14
V.      Conclusion  .......................................................................................................................     18


Annexes:
Annex 1.    Findings, Comments and Actions
Annex 2.    Terms of Reference for IndependentExperts
Tables:
Table 1.    Panel Findings of Compliance
Table 2.    Panel Findings of Non-Compliance
Table 3.    Proposed Management Action Plan
Maps
Map 1.      Cameroon-PetroleumDevelopmentand Pipeline Project (IBRD 32480)




                                                                 111
                                                                 ...

Cameroon



                 ABBREVIATIONSACRONYMS
                                    AND

ASOSRP      Area Specific Oil Spill ResponsePlan
BP          Bank Procedure
CAPECE      PetroleumEnvironmentCapacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project
CED         Center for Environment and Development
CNLS        ComitCNational de Lutte contre le Sida (National Committeeto Fight
            HIV/AIDS)
COTCO       Cameroon Oil TransportationCompany S.A.
CPSP        ComitCde Pilotageet de Suivides Pipelines(Pipeline Steeringand
cs          MonitoringCommittee)
            ComitCde Suivi
DBST        Doublebitumen surfacetreatment
EA          EnvironmentalAssessment
EAS         EnvironmentalAlignment Sheet
ECMG        EnvironmentalComplianceMonitoringGroup
EMS         EnvironmentalInformationManagement System
EMP         EnvironmentalManagementPlan
FEDEC       Foundationfor EnvironmentandDevelopment in Cameroon
FSO         Floating Storageand OffloadingVessel
GoC         Governmentof Cameroon
HIV/AIDS    Human ImmunodeficiencyVirus/ Acquired Immune Deficiency
            Syndrome
IAG         InternationalAdvisory Group
IBRD        InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
IDA         InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFC         InternationalFinance Corporation
IPE         IndependentPanel of Experts
IP          Inspection Panel
IPP         IndigenousPeoples Plan (IndigenousPeoples DevelopmentPlan-IPDP)
LCC         Local CommunityContact
MINEF       Ministry of Environmentand Forests
NGO         NongovernmentalOrganization
NOSRP       National Oil Spill ResponsePlan
OD          OperationalDirective
OP          OperationalPolicy
PNDP        ProgrammeNational de DCveloppementParticipatif(Cameroon
            CommunityDevelopmentProgram)
PSFE        Programme SectorielFor& et Environnement(Forests and Environment
            SectorProgram)
PRSP        Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper
SDR         SpecialDrawing Rights
SNH         SociCtCNationale des Hydrocarbures(NationalHydrocarbons Company)
SONEL       Sociiti Nationale d'ElectricitCdu Cameroun
TOR         Terms of Reference
TOTCO       Tchad Oil TransportationCompany S.A.
USAID       United StatesAgency for InternationalDevelopment
USD
wcs         United States Dollar
            Wildlife Conservation Society
WWF         World Wide Fund for Nature



                                   iv

                                                 Management Report and Recommendation


LISTOF OPERATIONAL POLICIES, OPERATIONALDIRECTIVES,          OPERATIONAL MANUAL
               STATEMENTS, AND OPERATIONAL POLICY NOTES

OD        4.01   Environmental Assessment, October 1991
OP/BP     4.04   Natural Habitats, September 1995
OD        4.20   Indigenous Peoples, September 1991
OD        4.30   Involuntary Resettlement, June 1990
OP       13.05   Project Supervision,July 2001
BP       17.50   Disclosure of Operational Information, September 1993




                                        V


                                    I.     INTRODUCTION

 1.
Request RQ 02/2 (hereafterreferred to as "theRequest"),concerningthe PetroleumDevelopment
         On September 30,2002 the InspectionPanel registereda Request for Inspection,IPN
andPipelineProjectin Cameroon (the "PipelineProject"),financedby the InternationalBank for
Reconstructionand Development(IBRD), and the Petroleum EnvironmentCapacity
Enhancement (CAPECE) Project in Cameroon ("CAPECE"),financedby the International
Development Association(IDA).The Request for Inspectionwas submittedby the Center for
Environment and Development(CED),a local nongovernmental organization (NGO)based in
Yaoundt, representingseveralresidentswho live alongthe pipelineroute, as well as several
workers or sub-contractorsof Cameroon Oil TransportationCompany S.A.(COTCO),who are
all resident in the Republic of Cameroon ("Requestors").

2.       The Executive Directors and the President of IBRD and IDA ("the Bank") were notified
by the Panel of receipt of the Request.Managementrespondedto the claims in the Request on
October 29,2002. Managementreplied to twenty-six specificclaims,which concernedthe
Bank'spolicies on EnvironmentalAssessment,Natural Habitats, IndigenousPeoples, Involuntary
Resettlement,PovertyReduction and Supervisionas well as mattersrelated to labor relationsand
HN/AIDS. Management'sresponseprovided detailed discussionof cumulativeimpacts,
institutionaldevelopment,protected areas, the BakolaBagyeli people, compensationpayments
and processes,the Bank's intensified supervisionof the Pipeline Project and laborrelations. The
fullresponse is availableat www.inspectionPanel.org.In its Report to the Board, the Panel found
the Request eligibleand recommendedthat the Executive Directors authorize an investigation.
The investigationwas authorizedby the Executive Directorson December 16,2002.

3.       On May 2,2003, the Panel issued its Report ("Report")outliningthe findingsof the
investigation.Managementappreciatesthe Panel's clear, objectiveand thorough presentationof
its findings.This report, respondingto the findingsof the Panel, is organized in five sections.
Section I1provides an overview of the statusof the projects. SectionI11summarizesthe findings
of the Panel. Section IVpresents Management'sAction Plan in response to the Panel's findings,
and SectionV containsthe conclusion.The Panel's findings,along with Management's
responses, are presented in detail in Annex 1and relevant Terms of Reference (TORS)are
included in Annex 2.


                            11.      STATUS OF THE PROJECTS

PETROLEUMDEVELOPMENT              AND PIPELINEPROJECT

4.       The PipelineProject in Chad and Cameroon is the single largestprivate sector investment
in Sub-SaharanAfrica. It is expectedto cost about USD 3.7billion, of which IBRD and the
InternationalFinance Corporation(IFC) are fimding about 4 percent. The private sponsors,
ExxonMobil of the United States (the operator,with 40 percent of the private equity), Petronas of
Malaysia(35 percent), and Chevron of the United States (25 percent), which form a consortium
("the Consortium"),will developthree oil fieldsin southernChad.The Pipeline Project will also
comprisethe constructionof a 1,070-kilometerpipeline from the oil fields to Cameroon's
Atlantic coast at Kribi, three related pumping stations,ancillary facilities, infrastructure
improvements,and installationof an offshore Floating Storage and Offloading (FSO) vessel with
an 11-kilometer submarinepipeline from the coastlinenear Kribi to the vessel. See Map 1.




                                                 1

Cameroon


5 ,      The Bank and IFC were originallyapproachedto participate in the PipelineProjectin
 1992.The involvementof the Bank and IFC in the PipelineProject is predicated on: (i) the
unique opportunityit presents for Chad as well as Cameroon to generate additionalrevenuesto
combatpoverty; and (ii) the need to implement the PipelineProject in a sociallyand
environmentallysoundmanner in both countries.This approachto the Pipeline Projecthas been
essentialin integratinga range of relevant challengesinto Projectpreparation,including social
and environmentalissues.

6.       The Pipeline Project was prepared by the Consortiumand the Governmentsof Chad and
Cameroon,with the assistance of the Bank, IFC and other public and private lenders, fiom 1993
to 1999.The Consortiumand the Government of Chad have establishedTOTCO (Tchad Oil
TransportationCompanyS.A.)and the Consortium and the Governmentsof Chad and Cameroon
have establishedCOTCO.Thesetwojoint-venture companiesown and operatethe Chad and
Cameroonportions of the Export System.Esso Export and Production Chad, Inc. is the Petroleum
Development and PipelineProject'smanager and operator,responsible for overall coordinationof
the Pipeline Project, with TOTCO and COTCO, the two Governments,the Bank, IFC, and other
lenders.

7.       The PipelineProject was appraisedby IBRD in late June and early July 1999and
negotiated fromFebruary to April 2000. An IBRD loan of USD 53.4 million to the Republic of
Cameroon,which will financepart of the equity of the GoC in COTCO,was approved by the
ExecutiveDirectors on June 6,2000. An IFC A Loan of USD 100million, whichmobilized up to
USD 100million in commercialbank lendingto fund a portion of the Projectcosts of the Export
Systemin Chad and Cameroon,was approved by IFC's ExecutiveDirectorson June 6,2000. The
European InvestmentBank, like IBRD,provided financingto the GoC (about USD 29.6 million
equivalent)to financepart of the equity investmentin COTCO.

8.       The PipelineProject will provide additionalrevenues in Cameroonthat can be used for
the social sectors and other essential public expenditureneeds. Cameroon'srevenues expected
from the pipeline are not significantenough (about 3 percent of total Governmentrevenues)to
justify a specialmechanism, such as that provided under Chad's PetroleumRevenue Management
Program; in addition,Cameroon'sreform program, supportedby the Bank, includes efforts
towards budget consolidation.Through its lendingprogram and country dialogue,the Bank is
assisting Cameroonto use the benefits of the pipeline activity to supportits povertyreduction
strategy. Cameroon's full Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper (PRSP) was transmittedto the Bank
and the InternationalMonetaryFund in April 2003.

9.      As stated in the ProjectAppraisal Document,the development objectiveof the Pipeline
Project in Cameroonis to increasefiscalrevenues available for financingpriority development
expenditures,through environmentallyand sociallysoundprivate investment in the petroleum
sector and in the context of the GoC's strategyfor economic growth and povertyreduction.The
construction and operationof the pipeline is a major project that will provide significantincome
to the Cameroonianeconomythrough transit fees,the GoC's dividends from its shareof COTCO,
and taxes. Effective environmentaland social protection will minimize the direct and indirect
coststo Cameroon associatedwith this pipeline.

10.     Before the Pipeline Project was appraised,the GoC establishedan interministerial
committee,the ComitCde Pilotageet de Suivi des Pipelines (CPSP),by Decree 97-116of July 7,
1997.The Administrator General of the National Hydrocarbons Corporation(SociCtCNationale
des Hydrocarbures-SNH) is the Chairman of the CPSP, which is comprised of representatives




                                                 2

                                                           Management Report and Recommendation


 from all ministriesand agencies involvedin the supervision and monitoringof pipeline
 constructionand operation.The CPSP has two arms:

 0   The "Comitt de Suivi"(CS) is the steering,monitoringand administrativearm, comprised of
     representativesof fifteenministriesinvolvedin authorizing, overseeing,and monitoring
     pipeline constructionand operationactivities.The Chairmanreports to the Presidentof the
     Republic.Among its other duties,the CS is responsible for ensuringthat all the parties
     involved complywith their obligationsunder the 1999Environmental
     AssessmenUEnvironmentalManagementPlan (ENEMP), includingthe CompensationPlan;
     and

0    The "PermanentSecretariat"is the operationalarm in charge of implementingthe mandates
     of the CPSP at field level, and reporting to the CS.

The operatingrules and proceduresof the CPSP and the Permanent Secretariatwere definedby a
PresidentialArret6 of August 24, 1999which clarifiedthe implementingrules of Decree 97-116.
This Arret6 also establishedthe administrativestructureof the CPSP,which has six operational
units to implement its mandates.They are staffedwith environmental,pollution control,
economic, social and health experts.

 11.     The Consortiumand the GoC sharethe responsibilityfor implementingthe Pipeline
Project. The PipelineProject was designed in such a way that COTCO is responsible for most of
the implementationof the 1999ENEMP. The GoC is responsiblefor implementationof part of
the compensationprocess, in cooperationwith COTCO,and for overall supervisionand
monitoring of implementation of the 1999ENEMP, in accordancewith the applicablelaws and
regulations of the countryand procedures spelled out in the 1999ENEMP itself.

12.      Duringpreparation of the Pipeline Project,the institutionalframeworkdescribed above
and Cameroon'scapacitywere assessedand determinedto require additional supportin order to
successfullysuperviseand monitor the 1999ENEMP. Bank-GoC dialogueon the capacity issue
resulted in the design and implementationof a capacity-buildingproject (CAPECE) to benefit the
CPSP and the various ministriesand agencies involvedin the supervisionand monitoringof the
1999ENEMP.

PETROLEUMENVIRONMENTCAPACITYENHANCEMENT(CAPECE) PROJECT

13.      The IDA-financed CAPECE (SDR4.30 million, equivalentto USD 5.77 million) was
approved on June 6,2000, and declared effective on March 28,2001. The objectivesof CAPECE
are to: assist the GoC to developand establish a national capacity for the environmental
managementand monitoringof the Pipeline Project; and on a medium-to long-termbasis, to help
ensure the environmentalsustainabilityof futureprojects, programs andpolicies in the petroleum
sector in Cameroon.To achievethese objectives,CAPECEwas designed to: (i) support the
strengtheningof the institutional,legal and regulatory frameworkfor environmentalmanagement
in the petroleumsector; (ii) strengthenthe Permanent Secretariat'scentral units and field-based
multi-disciplinaryteams to monitor socio-economic,bio-physical and health impacts, including
HIV/AIDS,along the pipelineroute on a regular basis during the constructionphase and later
during operationof the pipeline; (iii) coordinate and monitor field activitiesincluding supportto
other ministries and agencies involved in monitoring implementationof the 1999ENEMP for the
pipeline; (iv) enhance information,education, communicationand healthprograms related to
pipeline constructionand operation;and (v) manage and monitor environmentalinformation.
Though significantdelayswere experiencedin developingthe capacityof CPSP to utilize IDA


                                                  3

Cameroon


funds,the costs of putting the centraland field units in place were pre-financedby the GoC
throughthe SNH, so that environmentalmonitoring fieldteams have been present duringthe
pipeline constructionperiod.


                            111.     FINDINGS OF THE PANEL

14.     The Panel noted that two distinctphases of the Pipeline Project form the basis of its
analysis of compliancewith OD 4.01 on EnvironmentalAssessment.The first phase is the
Evaluationand AssessmentPhase (definedby the Panel to include initial stages of project
preparationthroughBoard approvalin June 2000), while the secondis the Implementationand
MonitoringPhase (after June 2000).

15.     The Panel found that the Bank is in compliancewith its policies and procedureswith
regard to the followingissuesraised by the Requestors.In severalinstances where the Bank was
in compliancewith its policies and procedures, the Panel amplifiedits commentsas part of its
pro-activerole to enhancethe quality of Bank projects.These are noted, as appropriate.



 OD 4.01, Annex B               Analysis of alternatives
 OD 4.01                        Water quality impacts
                                Managementshould continue to monitor each specific situation to
                                ensure that a resolution amenable to all parties has been reached.
 OD 4.01                        Impacts on freshwater fisheries
 OD 4.01, para.11               Greenhouse gas emissions
 OD 4.01                        Dust
                                COTCO should continue to mitigate impacts by the continued
                                implementation of DBST measures, or watering of the road surfaces,
                                while ensuring that water withdrawal is within limits prescribed by the
                                1999 ENEMP.
 OP 4.04, para.5                Natural habitats
                                Bank staff should work closely with the Ministry of Environment and
                                Forests (MINEF) and the Foundation for Environment and
                                Development in Cameroon (FEDEC) and the World Wide Fundfor
                                Nature (WWF) in devising means and procedures for cooperation and
                                achieving sustainable land use under a variety of protective
                                mechanisms. The Panel urges Bank staff and FEDEC to work closely
                                with MINEFto ensure that illegal logging does not occur again within
                                the boundariesof the Campo Ma'an protected area and that
                                sustainable land use practices in the surrounding buffer zone areas
                                take place.
                                Management has the responsibility to supervise the activities of
                                FEDEC to ensure that the recently signed contract with the WWF for
                                Campo Ma'an and the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS)for Mbam
                                Djerem will result in clear objectives and management responsibilities
                                in conjunction with MINEF.
 OD 4.01 and OP 4.04            Environmental Management Plan
                                Removal of all temporary bridges (including the Lom River Bridge) is
                                necessaryto ensure compliance with the 1999 ENEMP (and the spirit
                                3f OD 4.01 and OP 4.04).
 OD 4.01, para.19 and BP        Consultation and disclosure
 17.50                          In the Implementation Phase, it is important that stakeholders
                                Jnderstand the components of the projects and their effects. A
                                'enewed Project outreach effort should be initiated now that the
                                iperation phase is imminent.
 OD 4.01. Annex A (01           3ccuDational health and safetv



                                                  4

                                                                Management Report and Recommendation


  OD 4.30                         Compensation process
  OD 4.30                         Grievance mechanism
                                  While not a requirement of the 1999 ENEMP, the Environmental
                                  Compliance Monitoring Group (ECMG) and the InternationalAdvisory
                                  Group (IAG) both felt that an approach to get "closure" in each
                                  community was important. During the January 2003 visit, the ECMG
                                  proposed that COTCO establish a cut-off date for the submission of
                                  grievances associated with construction activities, and then tie the
                                  resolution of these grievances into a Social Closure process.
                                  Direct adverse impact on indigenous peoples
                                  Consultation processwith indigenous peoples
                                  Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP)
                                  In compliance except for geographical scope of baseline data.



 16.     The Panel found that the Bank was not in compliance with its policies and procedures
regarding the followingissues raised in the Request for Inspection:




                                  "Non achievement of the purpose" of this paragraph with regard to
                                  strengthening of local capacity to adequately assess construction    I
                                  impacts.
  OD 4.01                         Health
                                  Absence of regional assessment of the health risks (part of baseline
                                  data, see above).
  OD 4.20                       IIGeographical Scope of Surveys
                                  Lackof baseline surveys outside the right-of-way of the pipeline on
                                  Bakola/Bagyeli use of forest for hunting.

17.      OP 13.05-Project Supervision.The Panel found that adequateresources and attention
continue to be given by the Bank to the supervisionof the Pipeline Project.However,the Panel
also noted that, regardless of how well-structuredexternal supervisionmay be, it cannot serve as
a substitute for in-countrymonitoring.The Panel further observedthat there is no local
supervisionteam in place to handle the volume and quality of supervisionrequiredby the Project
and stressedthat the persistence of this shortcomingwill certainly frustratean important goal of
the Bank's policy on Project Supervision.This issue is further discussedin Item 22 of Annex 1.

Key Issues

18.      Independent Panel of Experts. The Panel found that the Bank was not in compliance
with OD 4.01 (para. 13) concerningan advisorypanel of independentexperts,becausethe
Independent Panel of Experts (IPE) was not hlly engaged during the preparationand approval of
the 1999ENEMP, once its participationwas discontinued.Managementacknowledgedin its
October 2002 response to the Request that compliancewas partial, as a result of the termination
of contractual arrangementsbetween GoC and the IPE after its first year.

19.      The Panel observedthat the roles and responsibilities of an IPE need to be defined,now
that the constructionphase is almost completed,in conjunctionwith the CPSP and the SNH, in
order to complywith the requirementsof paragraph 13of OD 4.01 concerningEA



                                                    5

Cameroon


implementation and developmentof environmentalmanagementcapacity.As stated in the
InvestigationReport (para.26),"Giventhe difficultiesencountered with the first IPE over a
failureto agree on its roles andresponsibilities,the Panel has doubtsregarding the real value of
the IPE in this context.Clearly the opportunityexiststo avoid the problems encounteredwith the
first IPE."The Panel further noted that the new IPE would need to have a credibleniche that
meets the institutionalcapacityand technicalneeds of the CPSP/SNHand doesnot duplicatethe
activities and functionsof the IAG and ECMG.

20.      The Panel observedthat Bank staff must have a clear role in defining the participation
and responsibilitiesof the new IPE in conjunctionwith the GoC. Some specific activities for the
IPE may includereviewing and monitoringthe implementation of the National Oil Spill
ResponsePlan (NOSRP) in conjunctionwith the Project'sArea Specific Oil Spill Response Plans
(ASOSRP),monitoringof the restoration of the pipeline right-of-way,input into the formulation
of the proposed Long-TermVision Studyof the Environmental and SocialManagement of the
Petroleum Sectorand developmentof an effectiveenvironmental,health and socialmonitoring
capacity within the CPSP.

21.      Management sharesthe concernsraised by the InspectionPanel about the value of an
independentpanel in the specificcontext of EA implementation and developmentof
environmentalmanagementcapacity.Managementagreeswith the Panel's observationsthat a
credible "niche"needs to be found without duplicatingthe efforts of IAG and ECMG. Staff
engaged in project supervisionhave consideredtwo options for achieving independentreview: (i)
an independentpanel per se; and (ii) individualindependent experts engaged to review specific
activities. Staffhave alsobeen especiallymindful of adding value to the ongoing work of the IAG
and ECMG and of not creatinga situationwherein strainedrelationshipsbetween an IPE and the
GoC could again arise. In view of these considerationsand the highly technical nature of work
related to the NOSRP, training, and pipeline operationmonitoring,Management,in consultation
with CPSP during previous supervisionmissions,has concludedthat individual independent
experts,rather than a Panel per se, would provide value-added work and not duplicatethe efforts
of the ECMG and the LAG. More detail is provided in Item 1,Annex 1 and Terms of Reference
for the IndependentExperts are contained in Annex 2.

22.      In recognition of the importance of independentadvice on highlyrisky and contentious
projects with serious and multidimensionalenvironmentalconcerns,Managementwould
welcome an opportunityto discuss with the InspectionPanel what constitutes "independent''
advice in the context of the Pipeline Project and CAPECE.The IAG and the ECMGreport to the
Bank and to the IFC for contractualpurposes. Given the nature of their contractual arrangements,
they do provide an independentcheck on the projects. They provide adviceresulting from their
own field reviews and their own reports. An IPE reportingto the GoC, although independentof
the Bank and the IFC, could also be subjectto criticismthat it was not independent of
government'sviews.

23.     Baseline Data. The Panel commentedon lack of baseline data in three areas.
Environmentand public health, in particularrelated to HIV/AIDS prevalence, are addressed here
and in Annex 1.The geographicalscopeof surveys for forestuse by the BakolaBagyeli is
addressedunder Item 21of Annex 1.

24.     Environment. The Panel found that overall there was limited baseline data upon which to
base approval of the PipelineProject and greater efforts shouldhave been made to collect at least
one year's baseline data during the Project Evaluationand AssessmentPhase. The Panel noted
COTCO's extensivecommitmentto an ongoingcollectionof baseline data, but observedthat this



                                                 6

                                                            Management Report and Recommendation


 has occurredonly sincethe start of Projectimplementation.However,there is still a limited
 amount of informationavailableon pre-projectconditions.Many of the resource conflictsthat
 have arisen during Project constructioncould have been avoided by having a full year's
 availabilityof baseline informationprior to Project approval.The Panel cited the importance of
 collectingsufficientbaseline data prior to project approval to ensure that the best information is at
 hand for informeddecision-makingand to provide an adequatebackground for the project to
proceed.

 25.     Managementacknowledgesthe Panel'sfinding (para. 35) that baseline surveysidentified
key environmentalinformation;that the Bank attemptedto incorporatethis informationprior to
 construction;and that it was foundto be sufficientlydetailed and well-preparedto serveas a basis
 for ongoingmonitoring.

 26.     OD 4.01,Annex C (para.2) concernsmitigation measures.Managementbelievesthat
mitigationto reduce potentially significant adverse environmentalimpactsto acceptablelevels is
based on sound baseline data. The Panel acknowledgesthe existenceand use of the seriesof
EnvironmentalAlignment Sheets (EAS), which plots baseline environmentaldata on the footprint
of the selectedroute at a scale of 1:10,000and was instrumentalin assuring effective
environmentalmanagementand mitigation duringPipeline Project implementation.The EASs
were also used in each of the ASOSWs and are available to the four Spill Response Centersin
Cameroon. The Pipeline Project has also carried out a 4,000-householdsocio-economicbaseline
surveyalong the pipelineroute in advance of construction.This surveywas recentlyre-run to
measureProject-relatedchanges,includingimpacts of employment,compensation,and other
developmentalinitiativesat the community and householdlevels.

27.      Management'sunderstandingof OD 4.01, Annex D (para. 7) is that it provides for the
use of short-termdata (less than a year) as a surrogate for annual data, while longerterm data are
being collected.It also notes that short-term data may be used in order to avoid delays in critical
project decisions.In this case, Management concluded that there were no major baseline
uncertaintiesthat would result in systemicproblems during implementationand that long-term
baseline data could be collectedthroughout the Implementationand MonitoringPhase.
Managementagrees with the Panel that individual,but not systemic,resource conflictscould
have been avoidedhad there been more baseline data. However, in Management'sview, even a
full year of baseline data would not have been a surrogatefor the longer-termpattern. The overall
benefits of the Pipeline Project, despite some individual resource conflicts (handledroutinelyby
COTCOEMP staff), warranted the decision to proceed with the financing of the Pipeline Project.

28.      In conducting EAs, the question of how much data is enough frequentlyarises,given the
need to make case-by-casejudgments on the type and amount of data to be collected.The
problem is exacerbated in situationswhere agencieshave not routinely collectedbaseline
environmentaldata. Original field data collection,however detailed, cannotreplace historical,
multi-year data that would show trends and the extent of "normal"variation. In the earlyyears of
EA practice, EAs often presented voluminous data but lacked sufficientattentionto impact
analyses,design of mitigativemeasures and monitoring.OD 4.01, Annex D (para. 7) recognizes
that trade-offshave to be made between the amount of data collected and the need to provide
estimatesof environmentalimpact, while not delayingproject decisions. In the case of the
pipeline, Management consideredthe trade-offs,because the data collected did provide a
sufficientbasis for mitigativemeasuresthroughthe EASs and for monitoring. In the context of
the Pipeline Project, Managementwould welcome an occasion to exchange views with the
InspectionPanel on what should constituteadequatedata collection.




                                                 7

 Cameroon


29.      The PipelineProject will undertakeactivitiesto provide additionaldata and accessto
baseline data, as suggestedby the Panel.

0    A third runof the household socio-economicbaseline survey along the pipelineroute will be
     carried out in the post-constructionperiod to assess sustainabilityand gauge the net socio-
     economicimpact of the PipelineProject on affectedcommunities.

     Based on discussionswith the IAG, COTCOhas developeda list of Project-related
     documentsthat would be usefully placed in universitiesand institutionsin Cameroon.These
     documentsare mainly environmental and socio-economicmaterialsprepared for the pre-
     approvalassessmentof the PipelineProject and follow-up studiesthat have been
     subsequentlyundertaken.COTCO'sEMP Manager recently sent a letter to the Cameroon
     Minister for Higher Education proposing distributionin Cameroon similarto distributionthat
     has occurred in Chad. Once the distributionof these reports is complete,the Pipeline Project
     will update its website to indicatewhere the reports have been placed for review.

30.     Health. Healthimpactswere reflected in the 1999ENEMP but only to a limited extent.
The Panel found that the omission in the 1999ENEMP of an up-to-dateregionalhealth
assessmentwith particular focus on risk and impact of the PipelineProject in Cameroon (as well
as Chad), and the omission of a long-termplan aimed at risk mitigation,was a serious
shortcomingat the Projectpreparationphase. The ECMG, which was engaged for the Pipeline
Project after 2001,noted that the Projectneeded to considernot only a wider risk assessmentof
HIV/AIDS,but also a communityhealthprofile of the region in general,includingmaternal and
child health assessments.The Panel concurredwith ECMG's observationsand their position on
the approachto be taken regardingthe public health impacts of the PipelineProject. The Panel
found that Managementwas aware of the need to undertake a wider regional assessmentof the
health risks posed by the PipelineProject,particularly a sero-epidemiologicalstudy to assess the
risk of HIV/AIDS in the pipeline constructionregion.

31.     Managementacknowledgesthat the 1999ENEMPreflectedhealth impactsto a limited
extent, with a focus on workers and not on communityhealth issues, and that currentbaseline
data were lacking.Having recognized this shortcoming,the Bank has emphasizedthe need to
acceleratehealth activities,especiallythose related to HIV/AIDS.IDA, through CAPECE
assisted the GoC in the selectionof five health focal points alongthe route of the pipeline, the
establishment of a health center in Dompta and planning for the opening of two additionalhealth
centers.The agreementbetween the National Committeeon HIV/AIDS and COTCO is being
implementedand providestraining and health educationto communitiesin the Project area.

32.     Management acknowledgesthat no comprehensivesero-epidemiologicalstudy was either
requested or carried out duringthe EA preparation.However, as part of CAPECE,it was planned
to strengthenthe capacity of the Borrower to collect and analyzehealth-related statisticsthrough
health and medical surveys and analysisin the Project area. Sucha sero-epidemiologicalstudy
has not been undertakenthrough CAPECE,as the GoC decidedthat the study would be done
under the then proposed HIV/AIDS Project.

33.     The MultisectoralHIV/AIDS Project in Cameroon("the HIV/AIDS Project") provided
for a baseline sero-epidemiologicaland behavioral studyto be carried out during the first year of
the Project (2001-2002).The Bankplanned to use this study to obtainbaseline informationand
report on information from districts in the pipeline corridor. However,implementationof the
study was delayed; it was launched in early May 2003 with the assistance of the United States
Agency for InternationalDevelopment (USAID)and IDA. The IDA share in the study is USD 0.5


                                                  8

                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


 million.The studywill not be completed before the end of 2004. In the interim,the HIV/AlDS
 Projectteam has visited communitiesalong the pipelineroute during supervisionmissions and
 recommended to GoC to hire NGOs for community sensitization and socialmarketing of
 condoms. CAPECE has unused funds for this purpose whichmay be made availableto the
 ComitC National de Lutte contre le Sida (CNLS)to fundNGO activities in the pipeline corridor.
 The Bank and the GoC have discussedmaking activitiesin the pipeline corridor apriority in the
 nationalHIV/AIDS program.However,the GoChas preferredto take a nationwideapproach
 without privilegingany particular region of the country.

 34.     The Minister of Health has agreedto develop an actionplan for the developmentof heath
 care facilitiesalong the pipeline route to addresshealth in a comprehensivemannerbeyond the
 HIV/AlDS issue. Doctors and staff are being appointed for the focal points, a health care map is
 being developedand discussionsare underway between the Minister of Health and other
 stakeholders,includingthe CPSP, on the equipment and allocationof additionalresources to the
 planned or existinghealthcare facilities.The CAPECEMid-TermReview mission will explore
 further actionsthat may be taken by GoC with IDA supportto promote public health in the
 Project area, including actions to address HIV/AIDS.

 35.     CumulativeImpact Assessment.The Panelbelievesthat a cumulativeimpact
 assessment of the PipelineProject in Cameroon shouldhave been completedtaking into account
 the futureoil developmentin northern Cameroon and new oil/gas fields off the Camerooncoast,
 in addition to large scaleregional oil and gas developmentsthat are planned for Equatorial
 Guinea,Gabon and Nigeria. The Panel noted that additional projects in the vicinity of the
 Pipeline Project, such as the proposed Lom Pangar dam and the EuropeanUnion-fundedhighway
 linking southernChad to northern Cameroon,shouldhave been incorporatedinto a cumulative
 effectsassessment.As regards the Implementationand MonitoringPhase of the Pipeline Project,
the Panel noted that the cumulativeeffects of an oil spill off the Camerooniancoast must be
 addressed in the ASOSRP for that area. The Panel also noted that the proposed Long Term Vision
 Study for EnvironmentalManagementof the Petroleum Sector should incorporateanalysis of the
Project'scumulativeeffects.

36.      The Panel stated that it was troubled by Management'snarrow interpretation of the
cumulative impactsof the PipelineProject. Managementnotes that since the 1999ENEMP was
prepared,attentionto cumulativeeffects analysisand Regional Assessmentin the context of a
private sectorproject has increased.Managementbelieved, at the time, that the 1999ENEMP
adequately respondedto the Bank and IFC commentsmade on the draft 1997EA with respect to
coveringcumulativeeffects.The Panel asked the basis for Management'sresponse to the Request
"that cumulativeimpacts of the PipelineProject are expectedto be below the threshold that
would warrant furtheranalysis or a formal cumulativeimpact assessment"(Report,para. 53).The
decisionnot to pursue such a formal cumulativeimpact assessmentwas based on the professional
judgment of staff, given the limited impacts of pipeline operation once the constructionphase was
completed.

37.      Informationabout other projects-such     as the proposed Lom Pangar dam and the new
European Union-fundedhighway, or future developmentof upstream oil in northern Cameroon-
was more limited at the time the 1999ENEMP was prepared. The proposed Lom Pangar dam
was not consideredto be a viable option, since its economic feasibilityhad not been confirmed,
its financingwas consideredimprobable and the pipelinehad alreadybeen rerouted to avoid
jeopardizing the biodiversityof the Deng Deng forest.Oil developmentsin northern Cameroon
were also not consideredlikely. The EuropeanUnion-fundedhighway improvement, which was
approvedprior to the PipelineProject, links to the existing Cameroon highwaynetwork but does


                                                  9

 Cameroon


not otherwiseinterface with the Pipeline Project; consequently,cumulative impactswere
 expectedto be low. Since the pipeline is now in place and the proposed Lom Pangar dam and
 future developmentof oil in northern Cameroon would themselvesnecessitateenvironmental
 assessments,current good practice suggests that those assessmentsshouldincorporate the
 analysis of cumulativeimpacts,including the pipeline.This is especiallytrue of the proposed
 Lom Pangar dam (see paras. 50-52), developmentof which could directlyaffectthe pipeline.If
proposals for oil developmentin northern Cameroon were put forth and the COTCOpipeline
were to be used, the legal agreements for the PipelineProjectrequire the applicationof Bank
 safeguardpolicies. The cumulative impacts of regional oil and gas developmentsin neighboring
countries are addressedin the context of the oil spillresponse plans.

 38.     Because the PipelineProject is in the Implementationand Monitoring Phase, the analysis
of broader cumulativeeffects is being incorporatedinto ongoing studiesin Cameroon, as
describedbelow.

39.      Management agreeswith the Panel's observation(Report,para. 56) that the cumulative
impacts of an oil spill off the Cameroonian coastneed to be assessedand that the proposed Long-
Term Vision Studyof the Environmentaland Social Managementof the Petroleum Sector should
incorporate analysisof the PipelineProject'scumulativeeffects. The NOSRP contains analysisof
potential impacts of oil spills at local,regional andnational levels. TheNOSRP also takes into
account internationalandregional conventionsrelated to the prevention of, and cooperation to,
fight oil spills in the marine environment; it also suggestsmodes for cooperationwith
neighboring countriesin case of an oil spill emergency.Although the pipeline doesnot cross any
areaprotected under the laws of Cameroon, the NOSRP analysespotential impacts of an oil spill
on protected areas close to the pipelineroute and provides mitigation strategies.The NOSRP: (i)
integrates the ASOSRPsdevelopedby COTCO for four specific sensitivezones along the
pipeline right-of-way;and (ii) complementstheir action plans and instruments to address any oil
spill along the pipeline right-of-way,includingbeyond its strict limits.

40.      Specifically,the Draft CameroonNational Oil Spill ResponsePlan prepared in February
2003 contains an extensive simulation of the cumulativeimpacts of multiple oil spills from
Camerooniansources, Cameroonianports, oil tanker accidentsin Cameroonianmarine and
estuarine waters,but also includingoil spills originatingfromNigerian and EquatorialGuinean
sources.Cumulativeimpactshave been simulatedand are presented on pages 22 to 58 of the draft
NOSRP. Managementbelievesthat the cumulativeeffects assessment of multiple oil spills from
marine and coastalrisk sourceswas done accordingto best internationalpractice.

41.     The Long-TermVision Studyof the Environmentaland SocialManagementof the
Petroleum Sectorwill addressthe cumulativeimpact of the Pipeline Projectthroughprojection of
its impacts on the overall economic and social developmentof Cameroonand their environmental
and social consequences.

42.     Institutional Capacity. The Panel has expressed concerns about institutionalcapacityin
two areas: (i) the role of CAPECEin building the local institutional framework for monitoringthe
pipeline on behalf of GoC; and (ii) FEDEC'srole in ensuringthe protection of Campo Ma'an and
Mbam Djerem environmentaloffset areas and in implementingIPP-relatedprograms.

43.     CPSP.The Panel expressedseveral concernsand conclusionsaboutinstitutionalcapacity
to monitor the pipeline:




                                                  10

                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


     It was not possible for the CPSP to have a fully independent monitoringcapabilityto assess
     environmentaland social complianceof the 1999EAEMP as originally envisagedby
     CAPECE,since resources and personnelwere not provided in a timely fashionto ensure that
     this was achieved.

     Managementmust continueto work closelywith the CPSP to ensure that the monitoring
     capacity of the CPSP is improved during the operationphase and that the deliverables
     resulting fkom implementationof CAPECE are produced accordingto schedule.

     Without further guidance and direction from the Bank, the CPSP may never develop a fully
     functionalenvironmentalmonitoringcapacity,as the pressureto do so as part of project
     constructionactivitiesno longer exists.

     After consideringthe Requestors'proposal that a moratoriumbe imposed on the Pipeline
     Project during which adequatecapacity within GoC could be developed,the Panel concluded
     that a moratoriumrealisticallycould not have been put in place.

     The Panel is troubledwith the fragility of the local institutionalfkameworkwhich, ultimately,
     is in charge of monitoringthe Pipeline Project on behalf of the GOC. The delays associated
     with the implementation of CAPECE which was specificallydesigned to mitigate this
     fragility, affected the GoC'sperformance during the entire constructionperiod.

44.      Managementsharesthe Panel's concernsand has been workingwith the GoC over the
last two years to supportsatisfactoryimplementationof activitiesunder CAPECE,the budget of
which is USD 11million over five years. The delays associated with implementationof CAPECE
are acknowledgedin aide-memoiresand follow-up letters shared with the GoC. Actions are being
implementedand/or launchedto build the needed capacityto deal with the Pipeline Project and
its impacts on the surroundinghuman and biophysical environment.Progresshas been made,
although at a very slowpace, in developingthe capacityof the CPSP during implementationof
CAPECE.CPSP's fieldteam has gained experiencein fieldmonitoringand supervision,
organizationand implementationof multi-expert field missions,better understandingof
environmental,social and health issues in connectionwith large infrastructureprojects, conflict
resolution in rural areas, and communicationstrategyimplementation.This progress needs to be
strengthenedwith a view to sustainingthe CPSP's work over the life of the Pipeline Project and
beyond, to deal effectivelywith environmentaland social impactsassociatedwith the petroleum
industry. While the Panel notes that efforts must be made to acceleratethe implementationof
CAPECE,realistically,the pace of CAPECE cannotbe acceleratedmuch more than it has been,
given institutionaland human resource constraintsin the country.

45.      The planned Mid-TermReview of CAPECE between May 26 and June 7,2003 is an
important opportunityto assist the GoC through the CPSP to complete ongoingactions and
launch new ones to procure servicesand equipmentand train staffto improve its capacity,
particularly in the new context of operation of the pipeline. Annex 1, Item 5 lists the activities
that will be a focus of the Mid-TermReview.

46.      FEDEC. The Panel was in agreementwith Managementthat activities of FEDEC to
ensure the protectionof the CampMa'an and Mbam Djerem environmentaloffset areas have
begun slowly,but concludedthat this in itself doesnot constitutenon-compliancewith OP 4.04.
The Panel also had several suggestionsregarding the building of institutionalcapacity to ensure
proper managementof these areas.



                                                 11

Cameroon


    The futureof Campo Ma'an protected core and surroundingbuffer zone dependsupon the
    actionsof the GoC through MINEF,the Ministryresponsiblefor its management.Bank staff
    should work closely with MINEF and FEDEC-WWFin devisingmeans and procedures for
    cooperationand achievingsustainable land use under a variety of protective mechanisms.
    (Managementnotes that the same applies to the futureof Mbam and Djerem,which is now
    the subject of cooperationbetween FEDEC and WCS.)

    The illegal logginginfraction,while small,indicates a larger systemicproblem of capacity
    within MINEFto clearly identifylogging concessionboundariesand their institutional
    capacity for enforcement.

    The Panel hoped the relationshipbetween FEDEC andWWF would provide FEDEC with
    needed technical assistance in regard to protected areamanagementand help to developan
    effectiveworkingrelationship with MINEF in the protection of the CampoMa'anprotected
    core. The Panel suggestedseveralkey activitiesincluding:developingterms of referenceand
    shared managementresponsibilitybetween FEDECNWF and MINEF for the Campo Ma'an
    protected core; identificationandremoval of conflictingresource extraction activitieswithin
    the protected coreboundaries and developingmechanisms and procedures to prevent
    encroachmentfrom outside; working with other resource users outside of the CampoMa'an
    park to developan integrated landscape management strategy;and raising additional
    conservationfunds.

47.     The Bank team is assistingin the establishmentof closer workingrelationshipsbetween
COTCO,CPSP,FEDEC and MINEF, as describedin Item 12 of Annex 1.Clarificationof the
roles and responsibilitiesof each stakeholder in the implementationof the offset will be further
discussedduring the CAPECEMid-TermReviewMission and within the proposedForest and
EnvironmentSectorProgram (PSFE-Programme SectorielFort% et Environnement).
Concerningmeasuresto help prevent illegal logging, two complementarymechanismsare in
place. The first is an addendumto the concessioncontractbetween the GoC and the logging
companyoperating closestto the Park, which commits the companyto collaborate activelywith
Governmentauthorities in preventing illegal loggingand commercialpoaching. The second
mechanisminvolvesthe servicesof an IndependentObserverto assess compliancewith logging
laws and regulations (a service currentlyprovided by the internationalNGO, Global Witness) and
detect weaknessesby the private sector and government institutions.The activities of the
proposed CameroonCommunityDevelopment Program(PNDP-Programme National de
DCveloppementParticipatif), along with the community-orientedcommunicationstrategyof the
CPSP and the future investmentprogram under the PSFE, will constitutea comprehensiveaction
plan to help sustain the protection of the two parks and achieve developmentobjectivesfor
neighboring communities and stakeholders.

48.     With regard to implementationof the PP, the Panel examinedconcernsrelated to delays
in implementation,budgetary allocation,and types of activitiesprogrammed or implemented.

0   The Panel found that while the delays in implementingFEDEC were unfortunate,they may
    have been unavoidable, given the capacity predicament of the GoC and the undefined and in-
    process nature of the specificIPP plans.

    The Panel recognized that, as a result of Bank interventionand oversight, FEDEC is now up
    and running and moving ahead with its programs.




                                                 12

                                                           Management Report and Recommendation



 0   The Bank could ensure that FEDEC implementsthe IPP effectivelyand that its Board
     members are adequately compensated andhave the necessary logistical support to function
     effectively.

49.       Managementwill continue to monitor closelyprogress on implementation of the IPP by
FEDEC and will discuss as appropriateways and means to address indigenouspeoples issues
including accessto wildlife.Additional information is provided in Item 21,Annex 1.

Additional Issue

50.       Lom Pangar Dam. During its investigation,the Panel alsobecame aware of a proposed
project to constructa hydropower dam on the Lom and Pangar Rivers.The 1999ENEMP
describesthe project as follows: "TheSoci&t&Nationale d 'Electricit&du Cameroun (SONEL)has
proposed to construct a hydroelectric dam located on theLom River, approximately 4 kilometers
downstreamfrom the confluence of the Pangar and Lom rivers to supply energy to the eastern
region of Cameroon. Theproposed project would create a reservoir with an estimated 7.5billion
cubic meter capacity covering an area of approximately 65,000hectares. The reservoir would
consist of two unequal branches: the Lom branch would extend I20 kilometers, up to thefalls of
Bangbel, about 20 kilometers north of Betare Oya; the Pangar branch wouldform a crescent
with a total length of 65 kilometers north of the dam. SONEL haspublished its environmental
assessment of thisproject and reported that completion of the dam would take overfour years."
(EMP, Volume 2, pp. 8-18). The Panel observesthat not only would this project lead to a
significantloss of the Deng Deng Forest, eitherthroughprior loggingor posterior flooding,it
would also pose a problem for the integrityof the Pipeline Project sinceit would have to be re-
excavated and concreteweighting provisions added.It would alsopossibly threatenthe newly
establishedMbam Djeremprotected area as water access [wouldthen be possible].

51.      Managementrecognizesthe concernsraised by the Panel as to the proposed Lom-Pangar
damproject. Because it shares these concerns,in February 2003, Management communicated
them in writing to the GoC.This exchange of views with the GoC followed their request for the
Bank's commentson draft TORSfor an environmentalimpact assessmentstudy for the proposed
project, and were reiterated to the most seniorauthoritiesin May 2003, during the Africa Region
Vice-president'svisit to Cameroon. It should be noted however, that the Lom Pangar project is
neither fundedby the Bank, nor currentlyunder considerationfor Bank funding.

52.      The view of the GoC is that the potential advantages of the proposed Lom Pangar dam
project argue in favor of a detailed environmentalassessment.Although Managementrecognizes
that more informationis needed to arrive at a definitivejudgment, it will continueto impress
upon the authoritiesits view that the proposedproject raises serious environmentalissues and
risks sendinga contradictorymessage to COTCO,which incurred substantialexpenseto avoid
the environmentallysensitiveDeng Deng area. Managementis well aware of the need to find
cost-effectivesolutionsto the country'schronic and growingpower shortage,which is visibly
constrainingeconomic growth.In coordinationwith other interested donors, it is engaged in an
effort to establish a constructiveworkingrelationshipwith the Cameroonianauthoritiesto assess
existing and potential electricalpower generationand transmission assets as well as current and
future energyrequirements.In this context,Managementis discussingwith the authoritiesthe
current high rate of dependence(about 95 percent) of electrical power generationin the country
on hydropower dams, which makes for high vulnerabilityto seasonaland longer-termcyclical
changes in rainfall and hydrology.It is also discussingwith them the linksbetween the imperative
of expandinglow-costpower generationcapacity and the substantialrequirements for aluminum
smelting (which currentlybenefits frombelow-cost power), and is encouragingand offering to


                                                 13

   Cameroon


   assist with an in-depth assessment of the optimality of aluminum smelting operations (especially
   an intended expansion of such operations) as an integral part of assessing long-term options for
   the expansion of power generation capacity.


     IV.      MANAGEMENT'S ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO THE FINDINGS




                               Independent Panel of Experts: Management is working with the CPSP to
                               provide for independent experts to be contracted to help with: (i) review of the
                               NOSRP; (ii) monitoring of the implementation phase of the offshore portion of
                               pipeline construction and the operationalization of the offloading facility; (iii)
                               implementation of the training program: and (iv) monitoring of pipeline operation in
                               high risk zones. The contracting process for the independent expert to assist in
                               the review of the NOSRP is underway; TORSare being prepared to address the
                               other tasks. See Annex 2.
OD 4.01, para 13: Independent        In addition, under the TORSfor the Long-Term Vision Study of the
Panel of Experts               Environmental and Social Management of the Petroleum Sector in Cameroon, it is
(Annex I, Item 1)              contemplated that the GoC will develop a comprehensive approach to the subject
                               including: (i) a survey of all planned investments in the petroleum sector; (ii)
                               drawing lessons learned from the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline project; (iii)
                               identification of strengths and weaknesses of the institutional framework for
                               environmental and social management of the petroleum sector, including
                               monitoring and supervision of pipelines and other oil-related infrastructure; and
                               (iv) recommendations for further design and development of an institutional
                               framework conducive to environmentally and socially sustainable management of
                               the petroleum sector. Experts for this task will be hired during the last quarter of
                               2003.
                               Baseline Data.
                                    Survey. A third run of the household socio-economic baseline survey along
                               the pipeline route will be carried out in the post-construction period to assess
                               sustainability and gauge the net socio-economic impact of the Pipeline Project on
                               affected communities.
OD 4.01, paragraph 2, Annex C  a listAccess   to Data. Based on discussions with the IAG, COTCO has developed
and paragraph 7 of Annex D of        of Project-related documents that would be usefully placed in universities
OD 4.01                        and institutions in Cameroon. These documents are mainly environmental and
(Annex 1, Item 2)              socio-economic materials prepared for the pre-approval assessment of the
                               Pipeline Project, together with follow-up studies that were undertaken
                               subsequently. COTCO's EMP Manager recently sent a letter to the Cameroon
                               Minister for Higher Education proposing distribution in Cameroon similar to that
                               "hich has occurred in Chad. Once the distribution of these reports is complete,
                               the Pipeline Project will update its website to indicate where the reports have been
                               Dlacedfor review by students and others.
                               Analysis of Cumulative Effects (and need for Regional Assessment).
                                    The Draft Cameroon NOSRP prepared in February 2003 contains an
                               axtensive simulation of the cumulative impacts of multiple oil spills from
                               Zameroonian sources, Cameroonian ports, oil tanker accidents in Cameroonian
3D 4.01, paragraph 5           narine and estuarine waters, but also including oil spills originating from Nigerian
(Annex I, Item 4)              and Equatorial Guinean sources. Cumulative impacts have been simulated and
                               are presented on pages 22 to 58 of the draft NOSRP.
                                    The Long-Term Vision Study of the Environmental and Social Management of
                               :he Petroleum Sector will address the cumulative impact of the Pipeline Project
                               :hrough projection of its impacts on the overall economic and social development
                               i f Cameroon and their environmental and social consequences.




                                                        14

                                                                   ManagementReport and Recommendation




                               Institutional Capacity. The planned Mid-Term Review of CAPECE between May
                               26 and June 7,2003 is an important opportunity to assist the GoC through the
OD 4.01, paragraph 12          CPSP to complete ongoing actions and launch new actions to procure services
(Annex 1, Item 5)              and equipment and train staff to improve its capacity, particularly in the new
                               context of operation of the pipeline. The Bank's Project team will work closely with
                               the GoC on a number of activities. Details are provided in Annex 1, Item 5.
                               Preparation for Oil Spills. Management agrees with the Panel's observation that
                               consultations and external review of the NOSRP should be coordinated with
                               COTCO to ensure consistency with their review and consultation process for the
                               four ASOSRPs in Cameroon. These latter plans were disclosed in the country and
                               at the Bank's InfoShop. The CPSP has already received comments from
Environmental Management       stakeholders on the ASOSRPs, which are being transmitted to the Bank for
Plan                           information. The NOSRP will be disclosed in the country and through the Bank
(Annex I, Item 6)              InfoShop. Itwill be reviewed by the independent expert currently being contracted
                               by the CPSP. Workshops with NGOs and consultation with communities,
                               government agencies and local government are planned and will take place as
                               soon as the NOSRP is disclosed. The CAPECE Mid-Term Review mission will
                               follow up on implementation of the review, consultation and public participation
                               process.
OD 4.01 - in compliance but    Water Quality. Management will continue to monitor specific situations as they
individual situations require  arise. Details on follow-up with regard to the Panel's specific suggestions for
monitoring                     Pembo and Kour Mintoum, as well as a more general approach to ensure
(Annex I, Item 7)              communication, are provided in Annex 1, Item 6.
3D 4.01 - in compliance but    Dust. As requested by the Panel in its report, management and ECMGwill
ieed for continued monitoring  continue to supervise and monitor COTCO's work on dust control measures with
:Annex 1, Item 11)             respect to water withdrawal constraints.




                                                      15

     Cameroon




                               Natural Habitats. The Bank team is assisting in the establishment of closer
                               working relationships between COTCO, CPSP, FEDEC and MINEF. Joint
                               meetings at COTCO's headquarters in Douala and CPSP's headquarters in
                               Yaounde were convened in July 2002, November 2002 and March 2003. The
                               main achievements of these meetings were the acceleration of FEDEC financing,
                               negotiations and signing of the agreements between FEDEC and WCS, and
                               FEDEC and WWF to begin preparation of management plans for Mbam Djerem
                               and Campo Ma'an, respectively, with the cooperation of MINEF and CPSP.
                               Clarification of the roles and responsibilities of each stakeholder in the
                               implementation of the offset will be further discussed during the CAPECE Mid-
                               Term Review Mission and within the proposed Forest and Environment Sector
                               Program (PSFE - Programme Sectoriel ForQts et Environnement), which the
                               Bank is helping Cameroon to prepare and which is expected to be presented to
                               the Board in the next fiscal year.
                                    Concerning measures to help prevent illegal logging, two complementary
3P 4.04, paragraph 5 - in      mechanisms are in place. The first is an addendum to the concession contract
:ompliance, but greater        between the GoC and the logging company operating closest to the Park. Signed
iigilance requested, in        in April 2002, this addendum ("cahier des charges") commits the company to
)articular concerning illegal  collaborate actively with Government authorities in preventing illegal logging and
~ ~ ~ i n g                    commercial poaching. The concession contract provides for periodic external
`Annex I , Item 12)            evaluations of results and penalties in case of poor or non performance. The
                               second mechanism involves the services of an Independent Observer to assess
                               Zompliancewith logging laws and regulations (a service currently provided by the
                               nternational NGO, Global Witness) and detect weaknesses by the private sector
                               and government institutions. Through its dialogue with the GoC and the upcoming
                               'SFE, the Bank will monitor closely implementation of the "cahier de charges"
                               xovisions and will ensure that the Campo Ma'an area remains a priority for
                               WINEF and the Independent Observer.
                                   The proposed Cameroon Community Development Program (PNDP -
                               'rogramme National de Developpement Participatif) will finance community-
                               jriven investment plans; the Campo Ma'an area was designated as one of the
                               ilot areas during project preparation. This project, along with the community-
                               iriented communication strategy of the CPSP and the future investment program
                               mder the PSFE, will constitute a comprehensive action plan to help sustain the
                               irotection of the two parks and achieve development objectives for neighboring
                               :ommunities and stakeholders.
I D 4.01, OP 4.04,             3emoval of the temporary Lom River Bridge. In compliance with the 1999
invironmental Management       ZNEMP, the Lom River bridge is scheduled to be dismantled during the week of
'Ian                           June 8, 2003. Removal of the bridge will take from 7 to 10 days.
Annex I, Item 13)
                               Zonsultation and Disclosure. The Bank has been working with COTCO and the
                               3oC to launch a national information campaign prior to first oil. Currently the
I P 17.50- in compliance but   2PSP is publishing a Newsletter (the Pipeline Letter) which is widely disseminated
ireater outreach requested     n Cameroon and abroad. A communication expert will be hired by the Bank to
4nnex I, Item 14)              ielp design a communication strategy. The objective of this strategy is to ensure
                               hat various stakeholders are fully aware of the features of the operation phase of
                               he pipeline. A communication firm would be recruited by the Bank prior to first oil
                               o implement the strategy.




                                                       16

                                                                      Management Report and Recommendation




                                Public Health. The Minister of Health has agreed to develop an action plan for
                                the development of heath care facilities along the pipeline route to address health
                                in a comprehensive manner beyond the HIV/AIDS issue. Doctors and staff are
                                being appointed for the focal points, a health care map is being developed and
                                discussions are underway between the Minister of Health and other stakeholders,
 (Annex 1 Item 16)              including the CPSP, on the equipment and allocation of additional resources to
                                the planned or existing healthcare facilities.
                                      The CAPECE Mid-Term Review mission will explore further actions that may
                                be taken by GoC with Bank support to promote public health in the Project area,
                                including actions to address HIV/AIDS.
                                Mi
                                Grievance Mechanism. In accordance with the Panel's suggestion, Management
 social closure process         notes that during the January 2003 visit, the ECMG proposed that COTCO
                                establish a cut-off date for the submission of grievances associated with
 (Annex 1, Item 18)             construction activities, and then tie the resolution of these grievances into a
                                "Social Closure" process. COTCO has taken steps to put in place such a process.
I
 OD 4.20, paragraphs 13-18 - in IPP Design and Implementation. Management will discuss appropriate ways to
 compliance except for          address indigenous peoples issues, including access to wildlife, during the course
 geographical scope of baseline of its monitoring of the implementation of the IPP by FEDEC.
 data
 (Annex I, Item 21)


                                Project Supervision. During the CAPECE Mid-Term Review, the Bank team will
                                work with the CPSP to ensure that the conditions for development and
                                implementation of the strategy will be dealt with appropriately within the Long-
                                Term Vision Study of the Environmental and Social Management of the Petroleum
                                Sector in Cameroon.
 (Annex 1, Item 22)                   With regard to the Panel's suggestion on continued participation of the
                                ECMG, Management wishes to note that as per the TORSthe ECMG,following
                                the Project Completion Date, will continue to monitor Project operational
                                compliance with the 1999 ENEMP during each twelve month period at the
                                discretion of the lender group and prepare a report after each visit to assess
                                compliance by the Consortium with its obligation under the 1999 ENEMP, up until
                                full repayment of senior lenders to the Pipeline Project and beyond.


                                Sustainability. Management will seek to ensure that relevant sectors are fully
                                integrated in the local monitoring team. In particular, through supervision of
                                CAPECE, Management will continue to encourage coordination across sectors,
                                with specific focus on strengthening the active involvement of key sector ministriec
                                such as those in charge of public health and environment, in the monitoring of the
                                Pipeline Project. On a broader scale, enhancement of cross-sectoral coordination
 Overall Panel Conclusion       and integration will be an underlying goal of the upcoming FYO4-06 CAS, and
                                several planned instruments of Bank assistance will help further this goal in
                                relation to the Pipeline Project. Aside from continued supervision of CAPECE,
                                proposed new lending instruments (e.g., a sectoral program on forestry and
                                environment and a poverty reduction support credit) will, as appropriate, seek to
                                further strengthen contributions from the environment and health administrations
                                in the monitoring of activities in the Project area.




                                                        17

Cameroon


                                    V.       CONCLUSION

53.      Management believes that the Bank team has made every effort to apply its policies and
procedures and to pursue its mission statement in the context of the Petroleum Development and
Pipeline Project and the Petroleum Environmental Capacity Enhancement (CAPECE)Project in
Cameroon. Management acknowledges the Panel's recommendations on the implementation and
monitoring of the environmental and social aspects of the two projects and will continue its
efforts to strengthen its dialoguewith the GoC and other stakeholders in order to achieve fully
and effectively the developmentobjectives of the two projects, including environmental and
social sustainability, in compliancewith its applicable policies and procedures. Management
believes that the proposed Action Plan attached to its response addresses the Panel's concerns.




                                               18

                                                                Management Report and Recommendation


                                 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                        INCAMEROONTO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON
                          RESPONSE
                                       PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENTAND PIPELINE PROJECT
         AND CAMEROON PETROLEUM ENVIRONMENT CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT (CAPECE) PROJECT
                                --    I lDlNC , COMMENTS AND ACTIONS
                                                       ANNEX 1

                                -Para    Policy Comments and Actions
                                        Measu
                                 21-    4.01    Comment: Management shares the concerns raised by the Inspection Panel
Experts                          27             about the value of an independent panel in the specific context of EA
The Independent Panel of                        implementation and development of environmental management capacity.
Experts was not fully engaged                   Management agrees with the Panel's observations that a credible "niche"
during the preparation and                      needs to be found without duplicating the efforts of the IAG and ECMG.
approval of the 1999                            Management, in consultation with CPSP during previous supervision
ENEMP, as its participation                     missions, has concluded that individual independent experts, rather than a
was discontinued. In addition,                  Panel per se, would provide value-added work and not duplicate the efforts
the IAG and the ECMG                            of the ECMG and the IAG.
cannot be seen as a
replacement for the IPE                         Action: Management is working with the CPSP to provide for independent
during the Project's                            experts to be contracted to help with: (i) review of the NOSRP; (ii) monitoring
implementation phase. Those                     of the implementation phase of the offshore portion of pipeline construction
mechanisms report to the                        and the operationalization of the offloading facility; (iii) implementation of the
Bank and to the IFC                             training program; and (iv) monitoring of pipeline operation in high risk zones.
respectively and cannot be                      The contracting process for the independent expert to assist in the review of
considered to be technically                    the NOSRP is underway; TORSare being prepared to address the other
independent in the sense                        tasks. See Annex 2.
intended by OD 4.01. The                              In addition, under the TORSfor the Long-Term Vision Study of the
Bank is not in compliance with                  Environmental and Social Management of the Petroleum Sector in
paragraph 13 of OD 4.01.                        Cameroon, it is contemplated that the GoC will develop a comprehensive
                                                approach to the subject including: (i) a survey of all planned investments in
                                                the petroleum sector: (ii) drawing lessons learned from the Chad-Cameroon
                                                Pipeline project; (iii) identification of strengths and weaknesses of the
                                                institutional framework for environmental and social management of the
                                                petroleum sector, including monitoring and supervision of pipelines and other
                                                oil-related infrastructure; and (iv) recommendations for further design and
                                                development of an institutional framework conducive to environmentally and
                                                socially sustainable management of the petroleum sector. Expertsfor this
                                 -              task will be hired during the last quarter of 2003.
Baseline Data                    28-    4.01    Comment: OD 4.01 Annex C (para. 2) concerns mitigation measures.
As noted in the Chad             37             Management believes that mitigation to reduce potentially significant adverse
Investigation Report, there                     environmental impacts to acceptable levels is based on sound baseline data.
iNas a lack of linkage between                  The Panel acknowledges the existence and use of a series of EASs, which
baseline data collection, the                   plots baseline environmental data on the footprint of the selected route at a
assessment of project                           scale of 1:10,000. These alignment sheets were instrumental in assuring
mpacts and the subsequent                       3ffective environmental management and mitigation during Project
application of mitigation and                   mplementation. The EASs were also used in each of the ASOSRPs and are
management actions. A                           availableto the four Spill Response Centers in Cameroon.
similar comment applies to                           The Pipeline Project carried out a 4,000-household socio-economic
2ameroon. In addition, the                      2aseline survey along the pipeline route in advance of construction. This
3ank should have made                           surveywas recently re-run to measure Project-related changes, including
greater efforts to ensure a full                mpacts of employment, compensation, and other developmental initiatives at
/ear of baseline data                           :hecommunity and household levels.
:ollection during the Project's                      Management`s understanding of OD 4.01, Annex D (para. 7) is that it
ireparation phase and prior to                  irovides for the use of short-term data (less than a year) as a surrogate for
ts approval, although current                   annual data, while longer-term data are being collected. It also notes that
activities in this area are                     Short-term data may be used in order to avoid delays in critical project
ieemed appropriate. The                         lecisions. In this case, Management concluded that there were no major
3ank is not in compliance with                  iaseline uncertainties that would result in systemic problems during
Iaragraph 2 of OD 4.01,                         mplementation and that long-term baseline data could be collected
innex C and paragraph 7 of                      hroughout the Implementation and Monitoring Phase.
innex D of OD 4.01.                                  Management acknowledges the Panel's finding (para.35) that baseline


                                                          19

Cameroon
                               --
Findings and Observations        Para Policy Comments and Actions
                                             surveys identified key environmental information; that the Bank attempted to
                                             incorporate this information prior to construction; and that it was found to be
                                             sufficiently detailed and well-prepared to serve as a basis for ongoing
                                             monitoring.
                                                  Management agrees with the Panel that individual, but not systemic,
                                             resource conflicts could have been avoided had there been more baseline
                                             data. However, in Management's view, even a full year of baseline data
                                             would not have been a surrogate for the longer-term pattern. The overall
                                             benefits of the Pipeline Project, despite some individual resource conflicts
                                             (handled routinely by COTCO EMP staff), warranted the decision to proceed
                                             with the financing of the Pipeline Project.

                                             Action: Survey. A third run of the household socio-economic baseline survey
                                             along the pipeline route will be carried out in the post-construction period to
                                             assess sustainability and gauge the net socio-economic impact of the
                                             Pipeline Project on affected communities.
                                                  Access to Data. Based on discussions with the IAG, COTCO has
                                             developed a list of Project-related documents that would be usefully placed in
                                             universities and institutions in Cameroon. These documents are mainly
                                             environmental and socio-economic materials prepared for the pre-approval
                                             assessment of the Pipeline Project, together with follow-up studies that were
                                             undertaken subsequently. COTCO's EMP Manager recently sent a letter to
                                             the Cameroon Minister for Higher Education proposing distribution in
                                             Cameroon similar to that which has occurred in Chad. Once the distribution
                                             of these reports is complete, the Pipeline Project will update its website to
                                             indicate where the reports have been placed for review by students and
                                             others.
Analysis of Alternatives                     Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
Analysis of possible pipeline   40-
                                 45  4.01    Inspection Panel.
routes was properly
addressed in the context of                  Action: No action required.
the ENEMP process. The
Bank is in compliance with
paragraph 2(f) of OD 4.01,
Annex B.                       -
Analysis of Cumulative           46-  4.01   Comment: Since the 1999 ENEMP was prepared, attention to cumulative
Effects (and need for           56           effects analysis and Regional Assessment in the context of a private sector
Regional Assessment)                         project has increased. Management believed that the 1999 document
An assessment of cumulative                  adequately responded to the comments made on the draft 1997 EA with
effects should have been                     respect to covering cumulative effects. Because the Pipeline Project is in the
sonducted during the early                   Implementation and Monitoring Phase, the analysis of broader cumulative
scoping of the project's                     effects is being incorporated into ongoing studies in Cameroon, as described
snvironmental effects prior to               below and further explained in Section Ill.
iroject approval and included
3s part of the original project              Action: Management agrees with the Panel's observation (Report, para.56)
snvironmental assessment                     that the cumulative impacts of an oil spill off the Cameroonian coast need to
and subsequent EMP. The                      be addressed and that the proposed Long-Term Vision Study should
3ank is not in compliance with
iaragraph 5 of OD 4.01.                      incorporate analysis of the Pipeline Project`s cumulative effects.
                                                  The NOSRP contains analysis of potential impacts of oil spills at the
                                             ocal, regional and national levels. The NOSRP also takes into account
                                             nternational and regional conventions related to the prevention of, and
                                             :ooperation to fight, oil spills in the marine environment and suggest modes
                                             `or cooperation with neighboring countries in case of an oil spill emergency.
                                             4lthough the pipeline does not cross any area protected under the laws of
                                             Zameroon, the NOSRP analyses potential impacts of an oil spill on protected
                                             weas close to the pipeline route and provides mitigation strategies. The
                                             UOSRP: (i) integrates the ASOSRPs developed by COTCO for four specific
                                             sensitive zones along the pipeline right-of-way, and (ii) complements their
                                             action plans and instruments to address any oil spill along the pipeline right-
                                             if-way, including beyond its strict limits.
                                                 Specifically, the Draft Cameroon NOSRP prepared in February 2003


                                                      20

                                                            Management Report and Recommendation
                               --
Findings and Observations      -Para Policy Comments and Actions
                                            contains an extensive simulation of the cumulative impacts of multiple oil
                                            spills from Cameroonian sources, Cameroonian ports, oil tanker accidents in
                                            Cameroonian marine and estuarine waters, but also including oil spills
                                            originating from Nigerian and Equatorial Guinean sources. Cumulative
                                            impacts have been simulated and are presented on pages 22 to 58 of the
                                            drafl NOSRP. Management believes that the cumulative effects assessment
                                            of multiple oil spills from marine and coastal risk sources was done according
                                            to best international practice.
                                                  The Long-Term Vision Study of the Environmental and Social
                                            Management of the Petroleum Sector will address the cumulative impact of
                                            the Pipeline Project through projection of its impacts on the overall economic
                                            and social development of Cameroon and their environmental and social
                               -            consequences.
Institutional Capacity               4.01   Comment: Management shares the Panel's concerns and has been workinn           -
The delays associated with      57-
                                68          with the Government over the last two years to support satisfactory
the implementation of the                   implementation of activities under CAPECE, the budget of which is USD 11
CAPECE, affected the GoC's                  million over five years. The delays associated with implementation of
monitoring capabilities during              CAPECE are acknowledged in aide-memoires and follow-up letters shared
the entire construction period.             with the GoC. Actions are being implemented and/or launched to build the
Efforts must be made to                     needed capacity to deal with the Pipeline Project and its impacts on the
accelerate the implementation               surrounding human and biophysical environment. Progress has been made,
of CAPECE. The purpose of                   although at a very slow pace, in developing the capacity of the CPSP during
paragraph 12 of OD 4.01 was                 the implementation of CAPECE. CPSP's field team has gained experience in
not achieved during                         field monitoring and supervision, organization and implementation of multi-
Implementation and                          expert field missions, better understanding of environmental, social and
Monitoring Phase.                           health issues in connection with large infrastructure projects, conflict
                                            resolution in rural areas, and communication strategy implementation. This
                                            progress needs to be strengthened with a view to sustaining CPSP's work
                                            over the life of the Pipeline Project and beyond, to deal effectively with
                                            environmental and social impacts associated with the petroleum industry.
                                            While the Panel notes that efforts must be made to accelerate the
                                            implementation of CAPECE, realistically, the pace of CAPECE cannot be
                                            accelerated much more than it has been, given institutional and human
                                            resource constraints in the country.

                                            Action: The planned Mid-Term Review of CAPECE between May 26 and
                                            June 7, 2003 is an important opportunity to assist the GoC through the CPSP
                                            to complete ongoing actions and launch new actions to procure services and
                                            equipment and train staff to improve its capacity, particularly in the new
                                            context of operation of the pipeline. The Bank's Project team will work closely
                                            with the GoC, focusing on:
                                            (i)    strengthening the existing field units and the unit that has been recently
                                                   established to monitor the offshore pipeline and the offloading facility
                                                   and their impacts on the bio-marine environment;
                                            (ii)   accelerating the operationalization of the Environmental Information
                                                   Management System (EIMS);
                                            (iii) improving mobilization of staff from sectoral ministries to strengthen
                                                   field monitoring and inspection;
                                            (iv) implementing the training plan, currently being refined to take into
                                                   account sectoral ministries' comments and provide more financial
                                                   resources;
                                            (v)    enabling closer collaboration among COTCO, the CPSP, FEDEC and
                                                   the MINEF to implement the biological diversity offset program and the
                                                   IPP;
                                            [vii) establishing a partnership between CPSP and relevant institutions to
                                                  develop environmental analysis capacity, including laboratory work in
                                                  connection with water and marine pollution and oil spills;
                                            :viii) implementing the recommendations of the NOSRP;
                                            :ix) training of civil servants, judges, lawyers, NGOs concerned with legal
                                                  and regulatory issues of pipeline construction and operation and
                                                  environmental protection; and
                                            `x)   launching the Long-Term Vision Study of the Environmental and Social

                                                       21

Cameroon                          -
Findings and Observations           Policy Comments and Actions
                                                  Management of the Petroleum Sector in Cameroon for which TORSwill
                              -                   be revised and agreed upon.
Preparation for Oil Spills     69-         Comment: Management acknowledges the finding by the Inspection Panel.
National Oil Spill Plan and    76
Area Specific Oil Spill Plans              Action: Management agrees with the Panel's observation that consultations
are being prepared in                      and external review of the NOSRP should be coordinated with COTCO to
accordance with EMP                        ensure consistency with their review and consultation process for the four
provisions and established                 ASOSRPs in Cameroon. These latter plans were disclosed in the country
international standards.                   and at the Bank's InfoShop. The CPSP has already received comments from
                                           stakeholders on the ASOSRPs, which are being transmitted to the Bank for
                                           information. The NOSRP will be disclosed in the country and through the
                                           Bank InfoShop. Itwill be reviewed by the independent expert currently being
                                           contracted by the CPSP. Workshops with NGOs and consultation with
                                           communities, government agencies and local government are planned and
                                           will take place as soon as the NOSRP is disclosed. The CAPECE Mid-Term
                                           Review mission will follow up on implementation of the review, consultation
                              -            and public participation process.
Impacts on Water Quality       77-  4.01   Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
There is no evidence that      81          Inspection Panel.
serious harm has resulted
from the Pipeline project.                 Action: Management will continue to monitor specific situations as they
Disputes exist between some                arise. Follow-up on the Panel's specific suggestions for Pembo and Kour
local communities and                      Mintoum, as well as a more general approach to ensure communication, is
COTCO over water issues.                   described below.
Management should continue                       The Inspection Panel suggested that it would be helpful for COTCO to
to monitor each specific                   provide evidence of reclamation of a wetland surface to its original grade
situation to ensure that a                 level prior to pipeline construction at a Pembo River (sometimes referred to
resolution amenable to all                 as a river, but actually a wetlandktream) location. The Panel indicated that
parties has been reached.                  the site should be further monitored to determine if the berm constructed by
The Bank is in compliance                  the claimant is impeding drainage. COTCO has reported that it believes that
Nith OD 4.01.                              the wetland surface has been restored to its original gradekonfiguration, as
                                           shown in photos provided to the Inspection Panel during their site visit. The
                                           wetlandhtream flows under the Kribi-Akom 2 road. After crossing the road,
                                           the stream crosses the pipeline easement unimpeded and continues flowing
                                           through culverts in the access road.
                                                At Kour Mintoum, the Panel concluded that there was a
                                           misunderstanding at this encampment regarding permitted activities on the
                                           pipeline right-of-way, which may be avoided in the future with better outreach
                                           efforts. Management concurs that a misunderstanding occurred. COTCO's
                                           indigenous peoples' specialists visited all Bakola/Bagyeli settlements to
                                           document water sources used, but the water source cited in the Request for
                                           Inspection was not included. When this source was discussed with residents
                                           during the Inspection Panel's investigation, they indicated that this source
                                           was used when walking in a particular direction, but not to obtain water for
                                           the settlement, because it is far away and across the Kienke River.
                                           Residents were under the impression that they were not allowed on the
                                           pipeline easement and felt they had lost access to this water point. This
                                           misunderstanding was corrected during the visit to the encampment by
                                           COTCO's indigenous peoples' specialists.
                                                COTCO has recently completed a village by village communication
                                           program in every community along the Cameroon portion of the Pipeline (242
                                           zommunities). An important component of the communications in each
                                           dillagewas to explain what activities are allowed on the easement and what

                              -            xtivities are prohibited (the only prohibited activities are essentially the
                                           :onstruction of buildings or planting of deep-rooted trees).
mpacts on Freshwater           32-  L O 1  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
kheries                        36          nspection Panel.
herall procedures for
luildingthe river crossings                4ction: No action required.
squired for the construction
f the pipeline are found to be


                                                    22

                                                          Management Report and Recommendation
                              --
Findings and Observations      Para Policy Comments and Actions
adequate and in compliance
with the EMP. In a specific
case investigated, COTCO
provided the Panel with
baseline data it had collected
in compliance with the EMP.
The Panel reviewed the data
and found no long-term
impact on freshwater
fisheries. The Bank is in
compliance with OD 4.01.      -
Assessment of Greenhouse       87-  4.01   Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
Emissions                      89          Inspection Panel.
The Bank is in compliance
with paragraph 11 of OD 4.01               Action: No action required.
concerning consideration of
global issues in the ENEMP.   -
Noise Disturbance              90-  4.01   Comment: Management acknowledges the finding by the Inspection Panel.
No evidence of serious         95
project-related harm noted.   -            Action: No action required.
Dust                           96-  4.01   Comment: Management acknowledges the finding by the Inspection Panel.
No evidence of serious         101
project-related harm noted.                Action: As requested by the Panel in its report, management and ECMG will

                              -            continue to supervise and monitor COTCO's work on dust control measures
                                           with respect to water withdrawal constraints.
Natural Habitats               102- 4.04   Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
The Bank is in compliance      118         Inspection Panel.
with paragraph 5 of OP 4.04,
but greater vigilance is                   Action: As mentioned in the response to Item 5, the Bank team is assisting
required to ensure protection              in the establishment of closer working relationships between COTCO, CPSP,
of the Campo Ma'an [Park].                 FEDEC and MINEF. Joint meetings at COTCO's headquarters in Douala and
                                           CPSP's headquarters in Yaounde were convened in July 2002, November
                                           2002 and March 2003. The main achievements of these meetings were the
                                           acceleration of FEDECfinancing, negotiations and signing of the agreements
                                           between FEDEC and WCS, and FEDEC and WWF to begin preparation of
                                           management plans for Mbam Djerem and Campo Ma'an, respectively, with
                                           the cooperation of MINEF and CPSP. Clarification of the roles and
                                           responsibilities of each stakeholder in the implementation of the offset will be
                                           further discussed during the CAPECE Mid-Term Review Mission and within
                                           the proposed Forest and Environment Sector Program (PSFE - Programme
                                           Sectoriel For& et Environnement), which the Bank is helping Cameroon to
                                           prepare and which is expected to be presented to the Board in the next fiscal
                                           year.
                                                Concerning measures to help prevent illegal logging, two
                                           complementary mechanisms are in place. The first is an addendum to the
                                           concession contract between the GoC and the logging company operating
                                           closest to the Park. Signed in April 2002, this addendum ("cahier des
                                           charges") commits the company to collaborate actively with Government
                                           authorities in preventing illegal logging and commercial poaching. The
                                           concession contract provides for periodic external evaluations of results and
                                           penalties in case of poor or non performance. The second mechanism
                                           involves the services of an Independent Observer to assess compliance with
                                           logging laws and regulations (a service currently provided by the international
                                           NGO, Global Witness) and detect weaknesses by the private sector and
                                           jovernment institutions. Through its dialogue with the GoC and the upcoming
                                           'SFE, the Bank will monitor closely implementation of the "cahier de
                                           :barges" provisions and will ensure that the Campo Ma'an area remains a
                                           xiority for MINEF and the Independent Observer.
                                               The proposed Cameroon Community Development Program (PNDP -
                                           'rogramme National de Developpement Participatif) will finance community-
                              -            jriven investment plans; the Campo Ma'an area was designated as one of


                                                    23

   Cameroon
                                       -
    Findings and Observations           Policy Comments and Actions
                                               the pilot areas during project preparation. This project, along with the
                                               community-oriented communication strategy of the CPSP and the future
                                               investment program under the PSFE,will constitute a comprehensive action

-                                 -            plan to help sustain the protection of the two parks and achieve development
                                               objectives for neighboring communities and stakeholders.
13. Removal of the (temporary)     119- 4.01,  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding by the Inspection Panel.
    Lom River Bridge               123  4.04
         Removal of all temporary              Action: In compliance with the 1999 ENEMP, the Lom River bridge is
    bridges (including the Lom                 scheduled to be dismantled during the week of June 8, 2003. Removal of the
    River Bridge) is necessary to              bridge will take from 7 to 10 days.
    ensure compliance with the                        The Induced Access Management Plan identified three sensitive
    EMP (and the spirit of OD                  environmental areas in Cameroon where special protection measures would
    4.01 and OP 4.04).                         be required. One measure included the removal of all temporary bridges.
                                               With the removal of the bridge across the Lom River, all temporary bridges in
-                                 -            these three areas will have been removed as required in the 1999 ENEMP.
14. Consultations and              124- 17.50  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
    Disclosure of Information      130         Inspection Panel.
    The consultations and
    disclosure of information                  Action: With respect to a renewed outreach program, the Bank has been
    concerning the Pipeline                    working with COTCO and the GoC to launch a national information campaign
    Project were frequent and                  prior to first oil. Currently the CPSP is publishing a Newsletter (the Pipeline
    consistent with the Bank's                 Letter) which is widely disseminated in Cameroon and abroad. A
    applicable policy                          communication expert will be hired by the Bank to help design a
    requirements. In the                       communication strategy. The objective of this strategy is to ensure that
    implementation phase, it is                various stakeholders are fully aware of the features of the operation phase of
    important that stakeholders                the pipeline. A communication firm would be recruited by the Bank prior to
    understand the components                  first oil to implement the strategy.
    3f the projects and their                        COTCO has very recently completed preliminary operation phase
    effects. A renewed Project                 consultations in advance of first oil (this is in addition to ASOSRP
    3utreach effort should be                  consultations initiated in the last quarter of 2002 and concluded in early
    nitiated now that the                      2003). This ten-week consultation program involved 283 meetings, (242 in
    iperations' phase is                       communities along the right-of-way and 41 meetings with prefets, sous-
    mminent. The Bank is in                    prefets, and district chiefs). Consultations entailed discussions o f land use
    :ompliance with paragraph 19               conditions (crop types, avoidance of construction of houses, etc.); formalities
    )f OD 4.01 and with BP                     for obtaining land use authorizations; demonstrations of crude oil samples;
    17.50.                                     explanation and demonstrations of the functions of fiber optic cable;
                                               presentation of COTCO procedures for oil spill prevention; measures to take
                                               if oil is observed in the soil (avoidance and notification); and steps to take
                                               regarding any claims or grievances.
                                                     Bulletin boards were placed in all communities and plastic laminated
                                               posters (one for the forest zone and one for the savannah) were posted. Six
                                               Local Community Contacts (LCCs) will be retained for the life of the pipeline.
                                               Follow-up consultations with LCCs will be carried out prior to filling the
                                               pipeline. Routine contact will be maintained by the LCCs over the life of the

    ~tionalHealthandSafety ant Jubli
                                  -
                                  -    ?lealth
15. lccupational Health and        133- 4.01   Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
    Safety                         138         Inspection Panel.
    -he Consortium, the
    :ontractors and the sub-                   Action: No action required.
    :ontractors have responded
    )ositively to the requirements
    )fAnnex A (0)of OD 4.01.
    -here is no indication that
    !MP requirements on
    lccupational health and
    `afety have been ignored or
    iolated. The Bank is in
    ompliance with Annex A (0)
    If OD 4.01 and the EMP.



                                                          24

                                                               Management Report and Recommendation
-                                 -
-   Findings and Observations     -Para Policy Comments and Actions
16. Public Health                              Comment IDAthrough CAPECE assisted the GoC in the selection of five
    As part of the project         139- 4.01
                                   149         health focal points along the route of the pipeline, the establishment of a
    preparation process, there                 health center in Dompta and planning for the opening of two additional health
    was a need to undertake a                  centers. Also, the agreement between the National Committee on HIV/AIDS
    wider regional assessment of               and COTCO is being implemented and provides training and health
    the health risks posed by the              education to communities in the Project area.
    Project, particularly a sero-                   Management acknowledges that no comprehensive sero-
    epidemiological study to                   epidemiological study was either requested or carried out during the EA
    assess the risk of HIV/AIDS in             preparation. However, as part of CAPECE, it was planned to strengthen the
    the pipeline construction                  capacity of the Borrower to collect and analyze health-related statistics
    region. The Bank is not in                 through health and medical surveys and analysis in the Project area. Such a
    compliance with the relevant               sero-epidemiological study has not been undertaken through CAPECE, as
    requirements on baseline                   the GoC decided that the study would be done under the then proposed
    data of OD 4.01 on                         HIV/AIDS Project.
    Environmental Assessment                        The Multisectoral HIVIAIDS Project in Cameroon provided for a baseline
                                               sero-epidemiological and behavioral study during the first year of the Project
                                               (2001-2002). The Bank planned to use this study and report on information
                                               from districts in the pipeline corridor. However, implementation of the study
                                               was delayed: it was launched in early May 2003 with the assistance of
                                               USAlD and IDA. The IDA share in the study is USD 0.5 million. This study
                                               will not be completed before the end of 2004.
                                                    The HIV/AIDS Project team visited communities along the pipeline route
                                               during supervision missions and recommended to the GoC to hire NGOs for
                                               community sensitization and social marketing of condoms. CAPECE has
                                               unused funds for this purpose, which may be made available to the CNLS to
                                               fund NGO activities in the pipeline corridor. HIV/AIDS Project activities
                                               complement similar activities undertaken by COTCO as part of the 1999
                                               ENEMP that will continue to be supported by the CPSP through CAPECE.

                                               Action: The Minister of Health has agreed to develop an action plan for the
                                               development of heath care facilities along the pipeline route to address
                                               health in a comprehensive manner beyond the HIV/AIDS issue. Doctors and
                                               staff are being appointed for the focal points, a health care map is being
                                               developed and discussions are underway between the Minister of Health and
                                               other stakeholders, including the CPSP, on the equipment and allocation of
                                               additional resources to the planned or existing healthcare facilities.
                                                    The CAPECE Mid-Term Review mission will explore further actions that
                                               may be taken by GoC with Bank support to promote public health in the
                                  -
                                  yoJ   easure
17. Compensation Process                       Comment Management acknowledges the finding- of compliance by the
                                                                                      -
    Compensation is fair and       152-
                                   172  4.30   Inspection Panel.-
    transparent and based on
    focused market surveys,                    Action: No action required.
    nhich resulted in higher
    zompensation rates than
    those paid by the GoC for
    nost food crops. The Bank is
    n compliance with paragraph
    3 of OD 4.30.                 -
18. Grievance Mechanism                        Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by the
    The mechanisms and             173-
                                   I79  5.30   nspection Panel.
    sroceduresof grievances are
    :lear-cut and accessible,                  ktion: In accordance with the Panel's suggestion, Management notes that
    although communication                     juring the January 2003 visit, the ECMG proposed that COTCO establish a
    among the parties could have               :ut-off date for the submission of grievances associated with construction
    ieen more effective. The                   activities, and then tie the resolution of these grievances into a "Social
    3ank is in compliance with the             2losure" process. COTCO has taken steps to put in place such a process.
    ,elevantprovisions of OD
-

                                                         25

Cameroon                         --
 Findings and Observations       -Para Policy Comments and Actions
 Direct adverse impact on         184- 4.20   Comment: Managementacknowledgesthe finding of complianceby the
~




 indigenous peoples               189         InspectionPanel.
The Pipeline Projectappears
to have little or no effect on                Action: No action required.
 BakolalBagyelihunting habits
 or the utilizationof the forest
 resources. It is difficultto see
 any direct harm by the
 pipelineconstructionon
 Bakola/Bagyelisubsistence
 patterns.The Bank is in
 comdiance with Daranrauhs 2
                        - .
 and 6 of OD 4.20. .             -
 Consultation Process             190- 4.20   Comment: Managementacknowledgesthe finding of complianceby the
Appropriate efforts to identify   193         InspectionPanel.
 and consultwith
 Bakola/Bagyelicommunities                    Action: No action required.
were made. It does not
 appearthat the presenceof
 non-Bakola/Bagyeliinhibited
the process.The Bank is in
compliancewith paragraph8
of OD 4.20.                      -
 IPP Design and                   194- 4.20   Comment Managementacknowledgesthat Pipeline Projectdocumentation
 Implementation                   223         focused on issues relatedto the population'swell-being and use of resources
 Management`s strategy to                     in the pipeline right-of-wayarea. It is also true that the economy and society
considerthe IPP as a `work-                   of the Bakola/Bagyelipeoplecovers a wide area which extends into hunting
in-progress'is noted.                         territoriesfar from the pipelineeasement.Huntingareas have been mapped
Although under normal                         and are presentedin IPP Project documents.
circumstancessuch `work'                           While baselinedata were confinedto studies of health, educational
would not be in compliance                    status, and agricultural land and resourceuse in the pipelinearea, the
with the provisionsof OD                      consultantswho preparedthe IPP and relatedinterventionsdid so on the
4.20, the Panel, however,                     basisof extensive knowledgeobtainedthrough decades of field researchand
sees the practicalityof                       publicationson Bakola/Bagyelieconomy and social organization.A holistic
Management`sstrategy                          understandingof the Bakola/Bagyelieconomy, includingthe economic and
becauseof the conditionsand                   social importanceof hunting and gathering in the littoralforest, was taken
practices of the                              intofull considerationin the IPPand related interventions.
Bakola/Bagyeli/Bantu                               Based uponthe documentation,hunting areas were considered not to
communitywithin the wider                     be affected by the Pipeline Project.The goals of the 1999 EA/EMPwere to
Camerooniansociety. Bank                      avoid impactson (chiefly agricultural)resourcesin the pipeline right-of-way
Managementand COTCO                           and to develop an IPP, which among other things, would improve income
have correctedthe                             from these resourceslocated in proximityto the pipelineright-of-way.
shortcomingsin the
interveningyears since the                    Action: Managementwill discuss appropriateways to address indigenous
EMP was written. The Panel                    peoples issues, includingaccess to wildlife, during the course of its
agrees that the IPP is a long-                monitoringof the implementationof the IPP by FEDEC.
term endeavor expectedto be
carried out over the 25 years
Df the Pipelineoperation. Of
necessity it must be fine-
tuned in the processof
implementation.The original
IPP, in this special
sircumstance, is in
sompliancewith paragraphs
13-18 of OD 4.20 on
 ndigenous Peoples,except
'or the geographicalscope of
:he baseline data. Current
sffortsto prepare and
 mplementa detailed IPP are      -


                                                        26

                                       -                      Management Report and Recommendation


Findings and Observations         IPara Policy Comments and Actions
in place to meet the
requirements of OD 4.20 on
Indigenous peoples.
                                   -
Project Supervision:               226- 13.05  Comment: OPlBP 13-05does not specifically require the Bank to have in-
Structure and Follow-Up            233         country monitoring apart from the Borrower's own responsibility to implement
Management has made                            and monitor project implementation. Nevertheless, Management, in addition
efforts to comply with the                     to a very thorough supervision program that included a minimum of four field
Bank's applicable policy                       missions per year, has established and maintained a focal point in the Bank
requirements. However, the                     Country Office for Pipeline Project supervision purposes. The focal point, an
local supervision capacity has                 implementation specialist working full time on the Pipeline Project, maintains
not been effective and needs                   regular contact with all stakeholders involved in Project implementation and
strengthening. The                             has established a working dialogue with the CPSP and COTCO on
persistence of this                            implementation issues. In addition, the Bank Country Office in Yaounde has
shortcoming will frustrate the                 a procurement specialist and a disbursement officer, both of whom follow up
purpose of the Bank's policy                   closely on Project implementation and collaborate on a regular basis with the
on Project Supervision.                        Borrower.
                                                     The focal point also has regular contacts with the Project team members
                                               in N'Djamena and the Bank's headquarters in Washington and is part of the
                                               overall supervision team in charge of the pipeline and CAPECE.
                                               Management believes that the flow of information needed for sound Project
                                               supervision is adequate and that the current supervision structure is
                                               appropriate for the Pipeline Project.

                                               Action: Duringthe CAPECE Mid-Term Review, the Bank team will work with
                                               the CPSP to ensure that the conditions for development and implementation
                                               of the strategy will be dealt with appropriately within the Long-Term Vision
                                               Study of the Environmental and Social Management of the Petroleum Sector
                                               in Cameroon.
                                                    With regard to the Panel's suggestion on continued participation of the
                                               ECMG, Management wishes to note that as per the TORSthe ECMG,
                                               following the Project Completion Date, will continue to monitor Project
                                               operational compliance with the 1999 ENEMP during each twelve month
                                               period at the discretion of the lender group and prepare a report after each
                                               visit to assess compliance by the Consortium with its obligation under the
                                               1999 ENEMP, UP until full repayment of senior lenders to the Pipeline
                                                                              .~
                                               Project and beyond.

                                        N/a    Comment: Manaaement fullv exDects that the benefits and risks associated
The Panel recognizes                           with the Pipeline Project will continue to feature centrally in the dialogue with
Management`s effort to                         the GoC.
comply with the Bank's
applicable policy                              Action: Management will seek to ensure that relevant sectors are fully
requirements. In this spirit,                  integrated in the local monitoring team. In particular, through supervision of
and in order to ensure the                     CAPECE, Management will continue to encourage coordination across
sustainability of the benefits of              sectors, with specific focus on strengthening the active involvement of key
the Pipeline Project and                       sector ministries such as those in charge of public health and environment, ir
effectively monitor its risks,                 the monitoring of the Pipeline Project. On a broader scale, enhancement of
the Bank should consider                       cross-sectoral coordination and integration will be an underlying goal of the
within its larger dialogue                     upcoming FYO4-06 CAS, and several planned instruments of Bank
framework with the country,                    assistance will help further this goal in relation to the Pipeline Project. Aside
an effective incentive to help                 from continued supervision of CAPECE, proposed new lending instruments
                                               (e.g., a sectoral program on forestry and environment and a poverty
                                               reduction support credit) will, as appropriate, seek to further strengthen
                                               contributions from the environment and health administrations in the
                                               monitoring of activities in the project area.




                                                         27


                                                            Management Report and Recommendation


                          MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
              INCAMEROONTO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON
                 RESPONSE
                               PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT
   AND CAMEROON PETROLEUM ENVIRONMENT CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT (CAPECE) PROJECT

                                             ANNEX 2
                     TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR INDEPENDENT EXPERTS

            RECRUITMENT OF AN INTERNATIONAL EXPERT               SPECIALIZED IN THE
     MANAGEMENTACCIDENTAL
                       OF                 HYDROCARBON        SPILLS (DRAFTTRANSLATION)

Context

1.       The Governmentof Cameroonneeds to prepare itself in order to play its role in the
prevention of, and in the emergency interventionin case of, accidentalhydrocarbon spills on its
territory. The current general shortcomings of the prevention and interventionsystems can in the
short term prove to be seriouswithin the context of the ongoingpetroleum operations.The
specific shortcoming,relative to the Chad Export Project (Projetd'Exportation Tchadien-PET)
is in blatant contradictionwith the extent and the nature of the GoC'sobligationswithin the
frameworkof the implementationof the EnvironmentalManagementPlan (EMP) (Plande
Gestion Environnemental- PGE) of this Project.

Objective of the National Plan to CombatAccidental Hydrocarbon Spills

2.       The principal objectiveof the National Plan to Combat AccidentalHydrocarbonSpills
(PlanNational de Lutte contre les DdversementsAccidentels d 'Hydrocarbures-PNLDAH) is to
provide the GoC's contributionto the PNLDAHproposed by the Consortium for the PET. The
official recognition of the PNLDAHby an internationalexpert will only be possible once the
PNLDAH is in place. For this reason, the developmentof the PNLDAH is on the critical path of
the PET.

3.       The PNLDAH also has two other objectives at short and medium term: (i) to supply a
platform of cooperationwith the Chadian counterpartsfor on-land spills and (ii) to supply a
government interventionframeworkfor all petroleum activities in Cameroonthat carry accidental
spill risks.

Objective of the Mission

4.       Within the frameworkof the PNLDAH Study,the consultantin charge of the study will
prepare a preliminaryreport to the CPSP and a final report includingcomments on the
preliminary report.

5 .      These two reports will have to be validated by the CPSP and the InternationalExpert
selected at the end of the recruitmentprocess accordingto the terms of reference herein.

6.       During the validationof these two reports, the Expert will have to ensure that the
PNLDAH is in compliancewith the World Bank SafeguardsPolicies and clearly describesthe
responsibilities of the institutionsconcerned,the actionsto take in case of oil spills,the necessary
equipment as well as the costs and the means of execution.




                                                29

Cameroon


Timeline:

7 .    The mission of the Expert selectedto assist the Pipeline Steeringand Monitoring
Committeein the validationof preliminaryand finalreports of the National Plan to Combat
Accidental Hydrocarbon Spills(PlanNational de Lutte contre les Diversements Accidentels
d 'Hydrocarbures-PNLDAH) will take place in two phases:

A.   Phase I:
     - Validationof the preliminaryreport: ten (10) days, of which three (03) travel days.

B.   Phase 11:
     - Validationof the final report: ten (10) days, of which three (03) travel days.

QualiJications/Experience:

8.     The expert must be internationallyknown and must have solid experiencein the
management of accidentalhydrocarbon spills.




                                               30

                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


         STUDYAND CONSULTATION FOR THE MANAGEMENTTHE SOCIAL AND         OF
 ENVIRONMENTAL         IMPACTS OF THE CHAD PETROLEUM PIPELINE EXPORT                   PROJECT ON
           THE COASTAL AND MARITIME           ZONE OF THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
                                               (DRAFT)

Objectives of the Study

1.       The study under considerationmust permit the CPSP to have access to professional
advice and assistance in matters of the management of environmental and social impacts of the
pipeline project in the zone of Kribi and in the territorial waters of the Republic of Cameroon.

Context

2.       The implementation of the Chad Petroleum Export Project includes, in a separate
component, the transport and export of petroleum to international markets by a pipeline traversing
Cameroon territory for approximately 900 lun. This pipeline is still under construction, and will
be operational by the fourth quarter of 2003. The Pipeline, whose construction is nearly complete,
leads to the Atlantic Coast of the Republic of Cameroon in the Kribi zone, and extends, under
Cameroonian territorial waters, to a petroleum loading platform, still within Cameroon's
territorial waters. This zone is considered a risk zone, whose environmental aspects were covered
by a specific environmental study (the risk zone study).

3.       Within the framework of environmentalprotection, the GoC, with the collaboration of the
Consortium in charge of the Chad Petroleum Export Project, has prepared an environmental
assessment (EA). The final EA documentation delineates the GoC's responsibility with regards to
environmental and social management and control of the Chad Export Project, especially in the
documents: Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and the Compensation Plan (CP). In order
to carry out these responsibilities, the GoC has decided to take the necessary measures through an
environmental management capacitybuilding program (CAPECE).

TheMission

4.       This program (the Program), developed and implemented with the assistance and the
collaboration of the World Bank, is administered by the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring
Committee (Comite`de Pilotage et de Suivi des Pipelines - CPSP).This Committee requires the
assistance and the counsel of an independent expert, with experience in management of the
marine environment and marine pollution, particularly with regard to hydrocarbons, to help it to:

    0    Evaluate the risk zone study, as concerns the zone of Kribi and the area around the
         offshore loading platform;

    0    Identify the potential pollution problems arising from the operation of the pipeline, the
         offshore loading platform and of the increase of activities in the zone surrounding the
        pipeline near Kribi;

    0   To propose means of cooperation, with a view to identifying the possible social,
        economic and environmental problems and the most appropriate solutions to resolve
        them, through:

        -   The neighboring communities



                                                 31

Cameroon

        -   The local institutions,local municipal administrationsand decentralizedstate
            institutions

        -   Private or public organizationshaving similarinstallationsin neighboring countries,
            especiallyexploration,exploitationand hydrocarbon transportinstallations,located
            in the maritime space of the Gulf of Guinea.

     0  Make an assessment of the legal instrumentspertinent to the statusof coastal and marine
        areas with a view to identifyingthe responsibilitiesderived for the CPSP, the user of the
        pipeline and the various stakeholders.

     0  Propose to the CPSP all actionsrequired to adequately and appropriatelyeliminate,
        reduce,minimize or compensatethe environmental,social and economicimpacts on:

        -   The populations,especiallythe fishing communities and the professionaland
            artisanaltourism operators
        -   Natural habitats, especiallythe maritime fauna and flora, and the landscape
        -   The countrieson the Gulf of Guinea that could be impacteddirectly or indirectly
            from involuntarypollution.

        Assist the CPSP, and throughthe CPSP the relevant government organizations,to
        developa specificprogram for the managementof the marine environmentin relation to
        the pollutionrisks by hydrocarbons.

        Advise the CPSP on the preparation of a systemof collectionand processing of
        informationon the marine environmentin the zone around Kribi in relation to the
        environmentalmanagementinformationsystem (EMIS) being prepared by the CPSP.

ConsultantProJile

5 .     A consultingcompany having proven experience in the field of marine environment and
marine pollutionby hydrocarbons,or a team of consultantsat PhD level,practicing at university
or universityresearch centers,with experiencein research and consultingin the field of
management of coastal and marine biodiversity, of marine pollution especiallyby hydrocarbons,
proven by publicationrecords. Any offer of services will have to be accompaniedby the CVs of
the proposed experts/ consultantswith specificreference to the assignmentthat will be allocated
to them within the contextof the mission for the CPSP.




                                               32

                                                             Management Report and Recommendation



                                  TRAININGPROGRAM(DRAFT)

Introduction

 1.      The PetroleumEnvironmentCapacity Enhancement (CAPECE) Project (Renforcement
 des Capacitis dans I'Environnement Pitrolier Camerounais - CAPECE)has as its objectiveto
 developand establish in Cameroona national capacity for the environmentalmanagement and
 monitoringof the Petroleum and PipelineDevelopment Project (Projet de Dbveloppement
Pitrolier et de Pipeline -PDPP), and to ensure the environmentalsustainabilityof future
projects, programs and policies in the petroleum sector.In order to attain these objectives,the
project will supportactivitiesin the followingfields:

     (a) Drafting and implementationof a legal and institutionalregulatory framework

     (b) Building coordinationcapacity in matters of environmentalmanagement

    (c) Building interventioncapacityto manage and monitor the impacts of petroleumprojects
         on the territory

    (d) Management,monitoring and evaluation of the project.

2.      All these activitiesrequire capacity building of personnel of the various executing
agencies,through training,to direct the project. It is expected that this training will bring long-
term advantagesto the population of Cameroon,not only through the effectiveimplementationof
the PDPP, but also throughbetter implementationof projects in the petroleum sector and better
environmentalmanagementin general.

Activities of the Project and Associated TrainingNeeds

(a)Drafting and implementation of a legal and institutional regulatoryframework

3.      This componentwill be carried out by a team of legal experts from Cameroon,assisted
by national and internationalconsultants.No additional training is required for the preparation
and the publication of the applicationdecreesof the EnvironmentalLaw of 1999.However, once              *
these decreesare approved,it will be necessary to train the personnel of the organizationsin
charge of their application,as much on the technical aspectsof these decrees as on the
implementationprocess. Training will alsobe necessaryfor the local administrativepersonnel
and for the participantsin the legislative andjudiciary process, to familiarizethem with the norms
and standardsimposed and with the appropriateimplementationprocess. The legal consultant
team will be supplementedby a specialistin training to plan and carry out these workshops, in
coordinationwith the informationdisseminationactivitiesto be carried out under the IEC
component of the project.

(b)Building coordination capacity in matters of environmental management

4.      This componentrelates to the work required directlyby the Permanent Secretariatof the
CPSP and its field units. The training of the personnel of the central unit is of highest priority,to
the extentthat they will need to plan and manage the executionof the Project. The personnel of
the CentralUnit contains in particular:

    0   The Permanent Secretary(PS) and hisher deputy;


                                                 33

 Cameroon



     0   A representativeof the Environment,Right-of-wayand Safety (ERS) Section
         (Environnement, Track,Skcuritk - ETS);

     0   The field teams comprising:a bio-physicist,a socio-economistand a specialist in human
         health; and

     0   A specialist in information management.

 5 .     The project will also benefit from the support of the personnel of the Legal Department,
 of the CommunicationDepartment, of the Human ResourcesDepartment and of the Financial
Management of the SNH, who supply services to the correspondingunits of the CPSP.

 6.      This personnel is in place and is immediatelyavailable for training.It is assumed that
each is already technicallycompetent to carry out his or her duties.Training must therefore
concentrate on gettingthe staff acquainted with the PipelineProject and its Environmental
ManagementPlan, the CAPECE and its executionmanual, specificallythe administrativeand
financialprocedures, and general management and teamwork skills. Shortinternal training
workshops will be carriedout by the consultantswho work on the legal questions,on the
communicationstrategy,and on the MIS project and on the environmentalinformation
management system.The SP/ERSpersonnel will also visit Chad and other neighboring statesto
better understandthe PDPP and its potential impacts in Cameroon.Thesevisits will be organized
by the Permanent Secretariat,in collaboration with COTCO, during the first three months of
implementationof the project.

7 .      The project team will also requirethe assistanceof specializedshort-termconsultantsin
environmentaltraining and in management for two months to carry out a diagnosisof the training
needs of the personnel selectedand to identify the appropriatetraining areas in Cameroon and
elsewhere.The consultantswill prepare draft applicationfolders for institutionswishingto
deliver this training, and will assist the SP/CPSPin the call for requests for proposals and the
evaluation of the qualificationsof the suppliersby shortlistof the consultants.The draft Terms of
Reference for these short-termconsultantsis given below.

8.      The personnel of the field units (see list in Annex) a large proportion of whom are
already in place, will contribute specializedexpertise in the biophysical, socio-economic,
environmentalhealth, engineeringand marine environmentalfields.

9.      Their task is to ensure,in the field, liaison with COTCOpersonnel, local authorities,the
generalpublic and NGOs. Because they need to supportthemselvesmutually, they sharetheir
skills amongthemselves and familiarizethemselves with the local authoritiesto which they
answer to help resolve the problemsthat may arise in the field.

10.     In order to achievethis, they need to receive particular training in teamwork,in
communicationand in conflictresolution.Initial trainingwill also addressadministrative
procedures of the project (mobilizationof the logistical support, acquisition of servicesof the
local experts through the CPSP, etc...) as well as monitoringand reportingneeds in
environmentalmatters.

11.     As far as is required (as definedby the work of the short-term consultant)the field
personnel can also receive additionaltechnical training in their own specializationsor in other
disciplines.




                                                  34

                                                               Management Report and Recommendation


 12.      The communicationsstrategythat a consultant must elaborateduring the first three
 months of the project is likelyto includea considerable amount for trainingthat couldbe
 extendedto SNH personnel,to other governmentstaff,to localjournalists and to NGOs. The
 training and management consultantand the communicationsconsultant will work together to
 elaboratea trainingprogram and identify appropriatesupport sources.

 (c) Building intervention capacity of to manage and monitor the impacts ofpetroleumprojects on
 the territory

 13.      This componentrelates to capacitybuilding within the decentralizedservicesof the
ministriesthat will be calledto assist in the management and the monitoringof impacts of the
Pipelineproject. The ministries concernedare:

     0   Environment; for the preparationand the implementation of implementationdecrees of
         the law on the environment;monitoring and reaction to biophysical impacts of the
          constructionactivities and accidentaloil spills;implementation,together with COTCO,
          of the "Induced Access ManagementPlan" (Plande Gestiond 'AccBsInduit) (to apply the
         rules pertainingto hunting and tree cutting,and to monitor the impacts on biodiversity in
          sensitivezones); and implement,together with an NGO to be recruited by the Foundation
         for the Environment (Fondationpour 1'Environnement)the EnvironmentalImprovement
         Program (Programmes d 'AmkliorationEnvironnementales) outsideproject sites.

     0    Transport: for the managementof offshore impacts tied to the installation and the
         exploitationof the floating Storage and Unloading boat and of the coastal and maritime
         portion of the Pipeline; also to participate in the Studyon the Interventionin case of
         Petroleum Spills,and to combat the petroleum spills on the coast or offshore.

     0   Mines and Energy; to (i) monitor the qualityof the constructionof the pipeline and the
         managementof associatedhazardous waste within the fi-ameworkof administrative
         surveillanceand technical controls (cf. Article 14 of the EstablishmentConvention
         between the Republic of Cameroonand COTCO); (ii)prepare the Studyto Combat
         Petroleum Spills; (iii) and contributeto the Studyon the Long Term Policy for the
         petroleum sector.

     0   Urbanismand Habitat: to put into operation Cameroon'sresponsibilities with regard to
         the CompensationPlan, and to resolve all conflictsthat would arise;

     0   Health: to manage public health in the zones traversedby the pipeline, paying particular
         attentionto the spread of HN/AIDS;

     0   Social Affairs; to monitor the execution of the IndigenousPeoples Plan;

     0   Higher Education and ScientiJicResearch; to monitor the implementationof the Cultural
         PropertyManagementPlan.

14.      Detailedplans with a view to providing training in the shortterm to the personnel of
these decentralizedadministrative serviceswill be preparedby the short-termconsultants, in
concert with the agency authorities. This training can be divided into two phases. The first phase
includespersonnel frommany services from sites selectedalong the course of the pipeline, given
that a large proportion of the training will concern getting acquaintedwith the conception of
potential impacts of the pipeline, and this personnel will have to work together at the local level


                                                  35

Cameroon


to find solutionsto problems as they arise.The personnel of the local administration,traditional
authorities,and local NGOs can alsobe associatedto these familiarizationworkshops. The
secondphase includespersonnel associated to specialtiesto describe specificimpacts in greater
depth and to promote inter-agencycoordination.Theseworkshopscould also serve as
opportunitiesto disseminatenorms and standards set by the environmentalapplication decrees,
and the procedure to applythese norms and standardsnot only for the pipeline project, but also to
other activities in the project zone. The personnel training program of decentralizedservices must
take place during the second semester of the first year of the project.

(d) Management, monitoring and evaluation of theproject

15.      This componentincludes contractingthe services of an InternationalPanel of
Consultants,and implementingmanagement and control systems for the project including a
ManagementInformation System(MIS) and an EnvironmentalManagementInformation System
(EMIS).There are no trainingrequirementslinked to the work of the EnvironmentalPanel.There
will necessarilybe a need for long-termtraining of the monitoring and evaluation specialistsin
the central unit of the Permanent Secretariatin the field of informationtechnologyand knowledge
management.Short-terminternshipsin the utilization of computers, data collection,research and
report production could be necessary for personnel in the central unit as well as for field
personnel.Basic training can be obtained from local commercialsources,although specialized
training in the exploitationof MIS or EMIS will be providedby the conceiverof the system in
concertwith the consultantsregardingtraining in managementand environment.

Extent and Organization of Work

16.     The Permanent Secretariatof the PipelineProjects Steeringand MonitoringCommittee
(SP/CPSP)in Cameroonis the principal organizationassignedwith the implementationof the
GoC'sresponsibilitieswith regard to the EnvironmentalManagementPlan of the Project. In this
respect, the project team needs the assistanceof specializedshort-termconsultants in
environmentaltraining for a task in two distinctphases:

17.     In Phase 1,lasting approximatelytwo months, the work of the consultantwill have to
allow the evaluation of the trainingneeds of the personnel selected,answer to somepriority
needs, elaborate a detailed trainingplan and identifythe areas and institutions for trainingin
Cameroonor elsewhere.

18.     In Phase 2, for a total of two man-months,spread out over a period of one to two years,
the consultantwill periodically monitor the implementationof the training plan.

19.     The transition from Phase 1to Phase 2 will be done at the approval of the trainingplan,
submittedto the SPKPSP by the consultantat the end of Phase 1.

20.     It is planned that the consultantbe recruited for the execution of both phases.This is in
principle what the SP/CPSPrequests. However,the SPKPSP reserves the right not to retain the
consultantduring Phase 1accordingto the followingcriteria:

    0   Effective availabilityof expectedresults outlinedbelow, in particular the trainingplan

    0   Respect of the time period set for Phase 1 (two months planned)

    0   Quality of trainingplan



                                                36

                                                            Management Report and Recommendation



    0   Quality of work relationswith the SP/CPSP

21.     If for these reasonsthe consultant was not retained for Phase 2, the amounts
correspondingto this secondphase will not be paid to the consultant.

22.     In addition, the consultant hired for this contractwill under no circumstancesbe retained
as the institutionin charge of providing the trainingplanned.

ActivitiesAnticipated and Results Expected

PHASEI - Creation of the Training Plan (Two-monthperiod)

23.     The consultantswill:

    0   Evaluatethe skills of the personnel of the SP/CPSPresponsiblefor the implementationof
        the EMP in relation to the descriptionof their work posts, and identifythe short-term
        trainingneeds.

    0   Plan and execute workshops to satisfy immediatetrainingneeds, includingthe
        familiarizationwith the Pipelineproject and its EnvironmentalManagementPlan,
        familiarizationwith the CAPECE and its ImplementationManual, in particularthe
        Administrativeand Financial procedures, and general slullsin management and
        teamwork.This will have to be done while avoidingredundancieswith training already
        undertakenby COTCO.

    0   Assist other consultantsworking on legal questions, on the communicationstrategyand
        on the project MIS and the environmentalinformationmanagementsystems,to plan and
        hold internaltraining workshopsand elaboratelong-termtrainingplans covering a wider
        audience, includinggovernmentpersonnel, local authoritiesandNGOs.

    0   As required, assist the SP/ERSpersonnel in the planning of educationalvisits to Chad
        and other neighboringcountries,indicatingthe training objectives for these visits and the
        measures to evaluatetheir success.

    0   Evaluate the skills of the personnel selectedfor the posts within the field units with
        regard to their responsibilities,and plan personalized or group trainingprograms on a
        case-by-casebasis.

    0   After consultationwith NGOs, identify the NGOs that will benefit from training and plan
        priority trainingto ensurethat they carry out their role within the frameworkof the
        environmentalmonitoringof the Pipeline.

    0   Together with the personnel of the Ministry of the Environment,of Transport, of Mines
        and Energy, of Urbanism and Habitat, of Health, of Social Affairs and of Higher
        Education and ScientificResearch,evaluatethe training needs for personnel for
        decentralizedservicesto carry out their responsibilitieswithin the frameworkof the
        project, andpropose a general plan for the supply of this training.

    0   Prepare draft proposal documents for the institutions that wish to provide training, and
        assist the SPKPSP in the evaluationof the qualificationsof the suppliersby consultant
        shortlist.


                                                 37

Cameroon


24.     Results expectedfrom Phase I :

        A detailed and coherenttrainingplan including the needs identifiedand the actions
        planned (nature of training,institutionsselected,dates and timeframes,beneficiariesof
        the training,correspondingbudget) for the personnel of the centralunit of the PS, the
        personnel of the field units of the PS, the relevant administrativepersonnel and the NGOs
        selected.

    e   The selection of the training institutionsto implement the trainingplan.

Phase 11- Monitoring of the Execution of the TrainingPlan (Duration: two months over aperiod
of one to twoyears)

25.     The consultant will:

    e   Follow the implementationof the training plan, especiallyensuringthe respect of the
        timeframeand the quality of the contentsof the training given;

    e   Produce a summaryreport at the end of the Phase;

    e   Ensure that the persons supposedto benefit fkom the training actuallybenefit from it, and
        carry out monitoring after the training to ensure that the trainees apply the knowledge
        acquiredwithin the frameworkof the environmentalmonitoringof the pipeline.




                                                 38

                                                              ManagementReport and Recommendation


                         MONITORINGHIGHRISK ZONES (DRAFT)
                                         OF

Context of the Study

1.       The Chad ExportProject is an enterprise that will cost US$3 billion (FCFA 1800billion)
to extract and transportpetroleum fromthe Doba basin in southernChad to the Atlantic coast of
Cameroonoff the town of Kribito allow its exportto internationalmarkets.

2.       To carry out this project, a consortiumof petroleum companies (ExxonMobil,Petronas
and Chevron)will construct,exploit and maintain duringthirty years, an oil pipeline of
approximately 1050km, of which approximately 880 kmwill be on Cameroonianterritory.A
smallportion of this pipeline will be placed under the surfaceof the sea and will extend
approximately 11km to link the terrestrialsystemto the maritime terminal.

3.       Although an impact study was carried out and that the right-of-wayof the pipelinewas
chosen essentiallyalong existingroad corridors or on land that was disturbed one way or the
other by human activity,in order to limit the impacts on the physical and human environmentas
much as possible, a few critical zones were identifiedand require particular attention.These
zones, which are of three types, concern ecologicalareas, human settlement,zones where the
project will build permanent or temporary infrastructure,or sites of historical significance.

4.       From the ecologicalpoint of view, the highly sensitivezones concerned are:

    0    The coastalplain in the region of Kribi;

    0    The evergreen forest of the Atlantic littoral in the south of Cameroon (region of Lolodorf-
         Kribi);

         The Mbere valley.

5.       From the human point of view, the areas of concern are urban, peri-urban andrural zones
and centers,which will receive an increasein population from immigrationof populations
affectedby the activities of the pipeline. It refers generallyto zones with low capacity of
equipment,infrastructurewhere the sudden increase in population could lead to socio-economic
problems.

6.       From the point of view of secondaryinfrastructureto the pipeline, it refers to permanent
installations:

         Pumping stations

         Storageareas (duringconstruction)

        Pressure reduction stations

         Oil terminals.

7 .     It refers, from the point of view of mobile installations, essentiallyto constructioncamps.




                                                  39

 Cameroon


 Objective of the Study

 8.      The studywill have as its principal objective:

     0   Toensure:
         -   That the measures outlined within the fi-ameworkof the EnvironmentalManagement
             Plan are applied effectively
         -   That the measures are efficient
         -   That the development indicatorsare achieved
         -   That the integrityof these zones is conserved,notably the zones of the pygmies in
             associationwith the socio-economicindigenouspeoples impact study.

     0   To propose all the changes or the complementarymeasures necessary for the
         implementationby COTCOandor the GoC.

         To define all the criticalandor new problems and situationsthat could appear and were
        not clearlyidentified in the EA or the EMP or were not possible to pre-empt, and to
        propose or suggest appropriatecorrections or adjustments.

WorkProgress

9.      The consultantwill take great care to fully understand the EnvironmentalImpact
Assessment,to get familiarizedperfectly all the elementsof the EnvironmentalManagement
Plan, to correctlyidentifyall the potential or known risk zones.

10.     The consultantwill also have excellentknowledge of the following environmentalplans:

     0  Compensationplan

     0  Indigenouspeoples plan

    0   EnvironmentalImprovementPlan

        Hydrocarbon Spill InterventionPlan

    0   Communication Plan

        Environmentalfoundation.

11.     On the basis of all these documents and of the COTCOwork program, the Consultant
will propose to the CPSP a work plan, which will determinethe procedures and methodologyto
follow in the analysis of impact of the Project on the risk zones as well as the expected results.

Timeframe:

12.     The Consultantmust plan to start the study six months after the start of the construction
works of the pipeline and its secondary installations.


                                                 40

                                                            Management Report and Recommendation


13.    The work of the consultantwill take place in three phases:

    0   lstphase: duringthis first phase, which will last three months, the Consultantwill carry
        out a detailed evaluationof the implementation of the mitigation measuresplanned in the
       EMP and the specificenvironmentalplans. At the end of this period, the consultant will
       prepare a report for the benefit of the CPSP describingthe situationin the field,the
       problems encounteredand, if appropriate,the solutionsforeseen.

    0  2ndphase: if the Consultantis authorized to continuehisher work, he/she will return after
       a six-monthperiod, to carry out an analysis of a systematicevaluationof the
       implementationof the correctionmeasures advocated,or, failingthat, to verify the
       continuityof the conformityof the mitigationmeasures.This phase will last one to three
       months, dependingon the severityof the problems encountered.

    0  31dphase: this phase will be subdivided into two sub-phases:
       -    Sub-phase 1: at the end of the constructionphase, the Consultantwill carry out a
            general evaluation of the status quo, and will propose, if necessary, the subsequent
            correctiveprogram. This phase will last from one to three months.
       -    Sub-phase2: two years after the constructionphase, the consultantwill make an
            analysis of the capacity of the personnel in place to manage the post construction
            situationin the zones concerned.This phase could last between three to six months.

14.    In all cases, the Consultantwill work in close collaborationwith the technical teams of
the CPSP both at the field and central level, a collaborationwill be set up with the other
consultantsworking the other studies (socio-economic,indigenouspeoples, cultural sites)for
needs of cohesionas well as from the point of view of the presentation of a global view.

Qualifications:

15.    The consultant should:

    8  Be an environmental specialistwith good knowledge of the biophysical and socio-
       economic fields.

    0  Have solid experience (5-10 years) in assessmentof impacts of developmentprojects.

    8  Have full command of the French language.

    0  Be able to work well in teams.




                                                 41

 Cameroon



  LONG-TERM       VISION STUDY OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                                 AND                            OF
                      THE PETROLEUM SECTOR IN CAMEROON (DRAFT)

Problem

 1.      Many current and future activities in the hydrocarbon sector in Cameroon are not
adequately regulated by an integrated body of policies, laws, rules and organizations, which could
guide and control these activities, including in the field of environmental and social impacts,
within the framework of a vision aimed at the future and for the well-being of Cameroon's
population.

Aim of the Study

2.       The planned study must allow the GoC to be informed of all possible options to enable it
select and implement the appropriate institutional option which will allow it to: (a) maximize the
benefits of exploration, exploitation and management of the national hydrocarbon resources on a
sustainable basis; (b) manage the environmental and social impacts of the activities of the
hydrocarbon sector; and (c) create an appropriate legal, regulatory and institutional framework to
put into application the institutional option chosen in the long term.

Context

3.       The implementation of the Chad Petroleum Export Project includes, in another
component, the transport and the exportation of petroleum towards international markets by a
pipeline that goes across Cameroon territory for approximately 900 km.This pipeline is still
under construction, and will be operationalby the fourth quarter of 2003.

4.       Within the context of environmental protection, the GoC, with the collaboration of the
Consortium in charge of the Chad Petroleum Export Project, has prepared an environmental
assessment (EA). The final EA documentation delineates the GoC'sresponsibility with regards to
management and control of environmental and social matters of the Chad Export Project,
especially in the following documents: Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and the
Compensation Plan (CP). To fulfill these responsibilities, the GoC decided to take the necessary
measures through an environmental management capacity building program (CAPECE).

5 .      This program (the Program), developed and implemented with the assistance and the
collaboration of the World Bank, is administered by the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring
Committee (Comite`de Pilotage et de Suivi des Pipelines - CPSP).The program requires
numerous sectoral and other studies, including: (i) a global evaluation of the legal and regulatory
field that regulates environmental protection in relation to the hydrocarbon industry; (ii) the
preparation of a national emergencyplan to combat hydrocarbon pollution; (iii) a study of the risk
zones to identify, among others, the safetyproblems of property and persons for the zone
traversed by the pipeline and its zone of influence; (iv) the external environmental audits of the
project; (v) studies for the management and monitoring of the archaeological heritage in the zone
traversed by the pipeline, and its zone of influence; (vi) a study for the monitoring of the
indigenous peoples plans and (vii) the production and the implementation of an environmental
information management system relative to the transport of hydrocarbons by the pipeline.

6.      In addition, through its work program, CPSP plans to carry out the following activities:
(i) an economic and financial impact analysis of the pipeline construction and exploitation project



                                                 42

                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


as well as the risks associatedwith apossible financial commitmentby the Republic of Cameroon
to such operations;(ii) the acquisitionby the promoters of the project of the most up-to-date
informationon the feasibility study:the cost of the Project and its breakdown, and the financial
and economic perspectives;(iii) an analysis of the risks to be associated to the participationof
Cameroon in suchprojects, including,among others,the geological risk, the commercialrisk, the
politicalrisk,the technicalrisk, etc., and the study of the differentinsurance coverage possible for
these risks; (iv) a determinationof the evaluationmethods or the calculationof the economicand
financialeffect associatedwith suchprojects; (v) an examination of the economicand financial
fallout for the entire length of the exploitationof the pipeline in accordancewith the production
profile, with the transport cost calculationand with the provisional exploitationaccounts,in
conformitywith the conditionsdefined in the transport contract,the establishmentconvention,the
project financingaccord and the project proponent'stransport authorization;(vi) an identification
of the institutionalweaknesseslikelyto constituteobstaclesin the realization of the economic,
financial,social and environmentalobjectives of Cameroon as well as the means of solvingthem.

7.       Finally,the mandate of the CPSP includesthe responsibilityto identify and to
systematicallypublish the lessons leamt of the project in the areas such as environmental,social
and economic policies, as well as the legal and regulatory framework.The aim of this approachis
to capitalizeon the knowledge and the know-how that couldbe applied to similaractivities in
future.

Timeline and Mandate

8.       The studywill be carried out in the third year of the project so as to develop the above-
mentioned Long Term Vision and should last fromnine months to one year. The consultant
selectedfor this work should:

         Collect all pertinent informationavailablein the public and governmentdomainrelative
        to planned or potential developmentsor investmentsin the hydrocarbon sector in
        Cameroon,off Cameroon'scoastlinein the Atlantic Ocean, or in neighboring countries;

        Refer to analyses and studiesmade above,and synthesizethe contents and the lessons
        learnedin the implementationof the Chad Exportproject, especiallythe experience of the
        CPSP in the field of technical, environmentaland social monitoring and control of the
        pipeline project;

        Simulatethe impacts that these projects or investmentsin the sector will have in relation
        to the economic and commercialdevelopmentin Cameroon and in relation to the
        environmentaland social impacts of the combinationof these projects with the impacts of
        the Chad exportpipeline;

        Propose options to develop the existing systemfor the management of the pipeline,
        including its environmentaland social aspects, while taking into considerationpotential
        developmentin Cameroon and in neighboringcountries, especiallythe developmentof
        the petroleum industry in the offshore zone of the Gulf of Guinea. The consultantwill
        take into account, for example,the need for regional cooperationto combat various
        sourcesof pollution and the possible pollution impacts from accidental oil spills in the
        Gulf of Guineamaritime zone: and

        While proposing options under paragraph (iv) above, the consultant will refer to good
        practices observed in other countries for the managementof hydrocarbons, for the



                                                 43

Cameroon


        transport of hydrocarbons,and for their institutional,economic,financial,environmental
        and social aspects or to existingorganizationalstandards.These practices and standards
        will have to be referencedin specificannexes and comparedto the existingsystemin
        Cameroon.

Consultant Profile

environmentalfields or a team of consultantsat PhD level, practicing at universities or research
9.      A consultingcompanyhaving proven experiencein the energy, hydrocarbon and

centers,with experiencein research and consultingin the above field,proven by publication
records. Any offer of serviceswill have to be accompaniedby the CVs of the proposed
consultantswith specificreferencesto the assignment that will be allocatedto them within the
context of the study.




                                               44

