                                    The Inspection Panel

                            Report and Recommendation
                                                    On
                                   Request for Inspection

                                            Cameroon:
 Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (Loan No. 7020-
    CM); and Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement
                  (CAPECE) Project (Credit No. 3372-CM)



   1. On September 25, 2002, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
        Inspection (the "Request"), dated September 20, 2002 related to the above-
        referenced Projects. On September 30, 2002, in accordance with the Resolution1
        establishing it, the Inspection Panel notified the Executive Directors and the
        President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
        and the International Development Association (IDA)2 of receipt of the Request,
        meaning "Registration" under the Panel's Operating Procedures.3

A.       FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS

   2. The Request makes reference to issues associated with two closely related Bank-
        supported Projects4 in Cameroon: IBRD Loan Number 7020-CM, "The Petroleum
        Development and Pipeline Project" (hereinafter referred to as the "Pipeline
        Project") and IDA Credit Number 3372-CM, "The Petroleum Environment
        Capacity Enhancement Project" (hereinafter referred to as the "CAPECE").
        Financial arrangements for these projects are as follows:5

                  a) The Pipeline Project, approved on June 6, 2000, is partially financed
                      by (i) a loan from the IBRD, in an amount equal to US$53.4 million,6
                      and (ii) a loan from the International Finance Corporation (IFC), in the
                      amount of US$100 million. The Pipeline Project also has substantial

1IBRD Resolution 93-10/Resolution IDA 93-9, ¶ 17.
2For the purposes of this Report, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and
the International Development Association (IDA) are collectively referred to as the "Bank".
3See The Inspection Panel, Operating Procedures (August 1994), at ¶ 17.
4This Report covers only allegations about the Bank.
5All legal documents entered into by the Bank for the two Projects related to the Request have been
declared effective.
6The relevant Loan Agreement, Loan Number 7020-CM, was signed on March 29, 2001.


                                                                                                      1

                        financial participation from three private sector petroleum companies
                        (the "Consortium");7 and

                   b) The Credit for the CAPECE Project, approved on June 6, 2000, is
                        financed by the International Development Association (IDA) in an
                        amount equivalent to SDR4,300,000 (about US$5.77 million).8

B.        THE PROJECTS

    3. The Pipeline Project and the CAPECE are components of the overall development
         of oil fields in Chad's Doba Basin. These Projects include construction of over a
         thousand kilometers long pipeline between Chad and Cameroon, and the provision
         of capacity-building assistance in Cameroon.9 Since the Request was submitted on
         behalf of individuals living in Cameroon, this Report focuses exclusively on the
         portions of the Pipeline Project located or to be carried out in Cameroon.10

    4. THE PIPELINE PROJECT. Schedule 2 to the relevant Loan Agreement states that
         the "objective of the Project is to assist in the development and export through the
         Borrower's territory of the petroleum reserves of the Doba Basin Oil Fields11 in
         an environmentally and socially sound manner, and thereby, inter alia, increase
         the Borrower's fiscal revenues available for financing priority development
         expenditures in the context of the Borrower's strategy for economic growth and
         poverty reduction."12


7Total Project costs are estimated to be US$3.7 billion. The revised financing plan included in page 7 of
the "Chad/Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project ­ Semi-Annual Report to the Executive
Directors" dated January 31, 2001 (SecM2001-0081), presents the following distribution (in %): (a) Private
Sponsors' Equity (Exxon 40% - Petronas 35% - Chevron 25%): 80.7%; (b) US EXIM ­ and COFACE
supported loans: 10.7%; (c) IFC A-Loan: 2.7%; (d) IFC B-Loan: 2.7%; (e) IBRD financed Cameroon
equity: 1.2%; (f) IBRD financed Chad equity: 0.9%; (g) European Investment Bank (EIB) financed
Cameroon equity: 0.7%; and (h) EIB financed Chad equity: 0.4%.
8The relevant Credit Agreement, Credit Number 3372-CM, was signed on July 14, 2000.
9The financial arrangements for the Pipeline Project are similar in Chad and Cameroon. In Chad, there are
three closely connected Bank-supported Projects and their related financial arrangements are as follows; the
Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project is financed by both IBRD under a loan in an amount equal to
US$39.5 million, and IFC under a loan in the amount of US$100 million. The Pipeline Project has also
substantial financial support from the Consortium which represents 80.7% of the total Project costs; the
Management of the Petroleum Economy Project is financed by the IDA under a credit in an amount
equivalent to SDR12,600,000 (about US$17.5 million); and the Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-
Building Project is financed by IDA under a credit in an amount equivalent to SDR17,400,000 (about
US$23.7 million).
10On March 22, 2001, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection in matters related to the Chad
portion of the Project and the Investigation Report, along with Management's Report and
Recommendations were submitted to the Board of Directors for approval on July 17, 2002. Additional
information on this can be found on the Inspection Panel website www.inspectionpanel.org.
11Section 1.01 (y) of the same Loan Agreement defines Doba Basin Oil Fields as the "Komé, Bolobo and
Miandoum oil fields in the southern part of the territory of Chad." The development of the Doba Basin oil
fields is called the "Field System," and is expected to be completed on December 31, 2008.
12Loan Agreement between Republic of Cameroon and IBRD, Loan No. 7020-CM, at p. 32, Schedule 2,
March 29, 2001.


                                                                                                          2

  5. According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the Pipeline Project,13 the
       Project includes the following: the construction of about 880km buried on-land
       pipeline, eleven kilometers off-shore pipeline, two pumping stations, a pressure
       reduction station, and the off-shore floating storage and offloading vessel at Kribi
       in Cameroon.14 These components of the Project, along with similar activities in
       Chad, are called the "Export System." Construction of the pipeline itself is well
       under way and is expected to be completed by December 2002, while "first oil" is
       estimated by the third quarter of 2003.

  6. This PAD states the Export System in Cameroon will be built and operated by
       Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A. (COTCO), a joint-venture company
       formed between the Consortium, the Government of Chad, and the Government of
       Cameroon.15 The following diagram describes the corporate structure concerning
       the Pipeline facilities:16

   Box 1: Corporate Structure

          Consortium                  Government of Chad                Government of Cameroon



                     Tchad Pipeline Co. (TOTCO)



                                     Cameroon Pipeline Co. (COTCO)




  7. THE CAPECE PROJECT. Schedule 2 of the Project's Credit Agreement states that
       the "objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower to develop and
       establish a national capacity for the environmental management and monitoring of
       the PDP Project [i.e., Pipeline Project]; and (b) on a medium to long-term basis,
       to help ensure the environmental sustainability of future projects, programs and
       policies in the Borrower's petroleum sector; including strengthening the
       Borrower's capacity to mitigate the negative social and environmental impacts of
       the PDP Project and the establishment of an environmental regulatory framework
       for the petroleum sector."

  8. The CAPECE Project includes: (a) strengthening the local institutional, regulatory
       and legal framework, (b) strengthening coordinating capacities for environmental
       management, (c) strengthening public intervention capacity for environmental


13A Project Appraisal Document or PAD has been prepared for each of the two Projects.
14Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19343 AFR, at p. 13 ¶ 4.
15Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19343 AFR, at p. 13 ¶ 4.
16Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19343 AFR, at p. 131, Annex 12.


                                                                                             3

        management; and (d) project management, monitoring and evaluation. The
        CAPECE Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.17

   9. According to the relevant PAD, and in the context of the Bank's Country
        Assistance Strategy (CAS) to Cameroon, the CAPECE contributes primarily to
        two of the CAS's objectives: (i) improve resource mobilization; and (ii) create a
        climate favorable for private sector development.18 Moreover, according to the
        PAD, the CAPECE aims to enhance the Government's capacity to protect the
        environment and mitigate the potential negative social and environmental impacts
        of the Pipeline Project.19

C.       THE REQUEST

   10. The Request (Annex 1) was submitted by the Center for the Environment and
        Development (CED), a local non governmental organization (NGO) based in
        Yaoundé, acting on behalf of a number of people living along the Pipeline route.
        The Request was also submitted by Mr. Savah Narcisse, and other residents of
        Mpango village (Kribi), as well as Messrs. Ekouang Laurent and Mangama
        Ngiong Pierre of the Bakola community of Kour Mintoum, and Messrs.
        Bissabidang, Nestor Abega Otele, Ekani Lebogo and other employees of COTCO
        and/or its sub-contractors, all residents of the Republic of Cameroon (the
        "Requesters").20 In addition, a list of 21 signatories who have asked that their
        names remain confidential to the Panel is included in the Request, as well as two
        video recordings, several attachments of letters exchanged between Government
        officials, COTCO, or COTCO sub-contractors on the one hand, and Requesters on
        the other, and other materials.21

   11. The Request claims that the rights and interests of the people living in the areas of
        the Pipeline Project and their environment have been seriously affected "due to
        violations of the policies of the World Bank." The Requesters allege that those
        violations have taken the form of "insufficient information during the preparatory
        phase of the project and since its implementation began; an inadequate
        consultation process; insufficient, non-existent or inadequate compensation; no
        respect for the workers' rights; a renewed outbreak of sexually transmitted
        diseases and HIV/AIDS all along the oil pipeline and around the project's main
        bases (from north to south), an increase in the prostitution of minors along the
        length of the oil pipeline."22 Thus, the Requesters "request the Inspection Panel to



17Credit Agreement between Republic of Cameroon and IDA, Credit No. 3372-CM, at p. 14 Schedule 2,
July 14, 2000.
18PAD, Report No.19627-CM, at p. 1.
19PAD, Report No.19627-CM, at p. 2.
20Request for Inspection (hereinafter the "Request"), at p.1.
21During its recent field visit to the Project areas, the Panel received two additional letters signed by a
number of individuals requesting to have their claims heard by the Panel. These claims are related to
workers' issues and are similar to some of the ones originally received by the Panel.
22Request, at p. 4 ¶ 4.


                                                                                                            4

      recommend that the administrators of the World Bank open an investigation in
      order to resolve the problem."23

  12. In addition to the above mentioned general claims, the Request includes more
      detailed allegations. These allegations relate to five broad areas: Environment and
      natural habitats, Involuntary resettlement and compensation issues, Indigenous
      peoples, Workers' issues, and, Project supervision. In connection with these areas,
      the Requesters complain about insufficient or inadequate consultation, and non-
      disclosure of information to the local population.

  13. ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL HABITATS. The Requesters allege that the World
      Bank accepted an environmental impact study that was not in conformity with OD
      4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The Requesters claim that, inter alia, the
      scope and processing of the environmental assessment prepared for the Pipeline
      Project, including baseline studies, mitigation measures, analysis of cumulative
      and overall impacts of the project, as well as the analysis of alternatives, have not
      been sufficient in their coverage or are inadequately prepared. The Requesters also
      allege that "Operational Directive 4.04 on natural habitats has not been
      respected."24

  14. The Requesters further claim that the Environmental Assessment "has not taken
      account of future developments of the project"25 nor has it sufficiently assessed
      and addressed "the limited capacity of the State of Cameroon to undertake follow-
      up operations and implement the necessary mitigation measures." Accordingly,
      the Requesters deem the "Bank's incapacity to ensure adequate strengthening of
      the capacities of the Cameroonian administration (...) a violation of Operational
      Directive 4.01."26

  15. The Requesters also claim that the preparation of the environmental impact
      assessment "has not respected the requirements of independence set out in
      paragraph 13 of [OD] 4.01, which recommends in the case of large projects the
      recruitment of an Independent Advisory Group of internationally renowned
      specialists."27 Such group is supposed to provide expert opinion on the process of
      preparing the impact study and on the implementation of the relevant mitigation
      measures.

  16. They also believe that the cumulative impacts of the Project and "the potential
      impacts of possible oil accidents have not been analyzed." The Requesters add that
      the preparation of an emergency oil spill response plan "was conducted without the
      slightest public consultation."28


23Request, at p. 8 ¶ 6.
24Request, at p. 7 ¶ 5(c).
25Request, at p. 6 ¶ 5(a).
26Request, at p. 6 ¶ 5(a).
27Request, at p. 6 ¶ 5(a).
28Request, at p. 6 ¶ 5(a).


                                                                                         5

   17. The Requesters allege adverse effects of the Project on water sources leading to
        drying up, reduction of flow and/or pollution of water sources, with negative
        impact on fisheries and on the availability of water for consumption and irrigation.
        In that context, the Requesters consider that the "rights of the fishing communities,
        as well as the project's impact on fishing in the region, does not seem to have been
        adequately taken into account by the environmental impact study,"29 and that, the
        Consortium has not provided "any of the solutions envisaged in the Environmental
        Management Plan."30

   18. In addition, according to the Requesters, the adverse effects resulting from the
        construction of the Pipeline, including dust and noise nuisance, have had a
        negative impact on the availability of game for subsistence, and provoked
        pulmonary and other health problems to workers as well as the people living in the
        pipeline area.31

   19. Regarding claims of violations of OD 4.04 on Natural Habitats, the Requesters
        state that the delays in establishing the Environmental Foundation prescribed
        under CAPECE have resulted in lack of action "to manage the protected areas
        created in compensation for the environmental damage due to construction
        works."32

   20. In the same context, the Requesters also reject the selection of the compensatory
        protected area of Campo-Ma'an. They consider the choice of this area
        "unacceptable," they claim "the region is already a protected area and for a long
        time before the project was launched has been the site of a GEF project. So it is
        not a new protected area. Furthermore, protection of the region is inadequate
        because of the threats due to the existence of industrial activity in [its] immediate
        proximity."33

   21. INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION. The Requesters allege that
        "the World Bank has not respected Directive OD 4.30 on the involuntary
        resettlement of populations."34 They also claim "the project has caused structural
        impoverishment of numerous persons living along the oil pipeline. In fact, because
        of the lack of management and methods of payment of compensation (...) many
        local populations living along the oil pipeline have not been able to reconstitute
        plantations destroyed during the construction work."35



29Request, at p. 5 ¶ 4.
30Request, at p. 6 ¶ 5(a).
31Request, at pp. 4 and 5 ¶ 4.
32Request, at p. 7 ¶ 5(c).
33Request, at p. 6 ¶ 5(a).
34Request, at p. 7 ¶ 5(b).
35Request, at p. 7 ¶ 5(d). In addition p. 2 ¶ 2(f) states that "Operational Directive 4.15 on poverty
reduction, paragraph 6 of which recalls the fundamental objective of the World Bank's activities, which is
that of poverty reduction."


                                                                                                          6

   22. The Requesters believe that the inadequacies in the design and implementation of
        the resettlement and compensation process, including its timing, to be causing
        impoverishment of the local population along the pipeline. Accordingly, they state
        that the "populations living along the oil pipeline have not been able to
        reconstitute plantations destroyed during the construction work. The amounts paid
        in compensation have therefore rarely been adequately used."36 For example, the
        Requesters claim that the "totality of tools and small equipments provided to the
        local populations as compensation in kind have been defective since the first few
        months of use,"37 adding that "the poor quality of the equipment (...) has not
        enabled us to renew our investments. The choice of providers has been made by
        the COTCO company which is trying to make us bear responsibility for it."38

   23. The Requesters find the grievance procedure applicable to the resettlement and
        compensation process to be inadequate, and allege that deficiencies in the
        consultation process and subsequent disclosure of information "led to a failure on
        the part of populations to be aware of the mechanisms established in the project
        for their benefit (mechanisms for settling compensation disputes, for example)."39
        Thus, it has deprived compensation beneficiaries "of sums they had a right to
        expect for the reconstitution of their production systems."40

   24. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES. The Requesters allege that "the World Bank has not
        respected Operational Directive 4.20 on indigenous peoples in various of its
        provisions." They express concern regarding the preparation and implementation
        of the indigenous peoples development plan (IPDP), and allege that the "process of
        consulting the indigenous peoples has not been adequate, as shown by the low
        level of information in the communities regarding the outlines of the project." In
        addition, the Requesters claim that the Bank has not implemented a strategy to
        ensure "the participation of indigenous peoples in the decision-making process
        during the design, implementation and assessment phases."41

   25. WORKERS' ISSUES. The Requesters allege that "[f]ailure to respect the law has
        deprived [workers] of the income and working conditions they might have expected
        from collaborating with the project,"42 adding that poor working conditions are
        adversely impacting on the workers' health. In support of these allegations, the
        Request cites individual cases of dismissals consequent to working accidents, as
        simple "illustrations of the problems (...) of violations of the rights of populations
        by virtue of the project."43


36Request, at p. 7 ¶ 5(d).
37Request, at p. 3 ¶ 3.
38Request, at p. 5 ¶ 4.
39Request, at p. 7 ¶ 5(a).
40Request, at p. 7 ¶ 5(d).
41Request, at p. 7 ¶ 5(f).
42Request, at p. 5 ¶ 4.
43Request, at p. 6 ¶ 4. During its visit to Cameroon, the Panel spent a substantial amount of time
discussing workers' issues with both the representatives of the workers and with COTCO and the sub-
contractors (Willbros West Africa, Inc. and Doba Logistics S.A.). A significant number of claims in the


                                                                                                       7

   26. PROJECT SUPERVISION. The Requesters consider that the World Bank "has not
        respected Operational Directive OD 13.05 on project supervision" claiming that
        the Bank has failed in its follow-up responsibilities.44 In the same vein, the
        Requesters consider Bank supervision inadequate as "no measure has been
        envisaged for dealing with the delay in implementation of the Plan for Vulnerable
        Native Peoples"45 or for mitigating unforeseen damages resulting from the
        Environmental Management Plan.

   27. The Requesters claim that the Bank's actions and omissions described in the
        Request constitute violations of various provisions of, inter alia, the following
        Bank Policies and Procedures:

         OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment
         OP/BP 4.04 on Natural Habitats
         OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction
         OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples
         OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
         BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information
         OD 13.05 on Project Supervision

        D. Management Response

   28. On October 29, 2002, the Panel received Management's Response to the Request
        for Inspection (the "Response," attached as Annex 2).

   29. In its Response, Management presents a detailed response to seven of the issues it
        had identified in the Request. Management states that it has made every effort to
        apply the policies and procedures of the Bank, and that it has "followed the
        guidelines, policies and procedures applicable to the matters raised by the
        Request." Thus, Management believes that "the Requestors' rights or interests
        have not been, or will not be, directly and adversely affected by a failure of the
        Bank to implement its policies and procedures."46 Under the sub-title `Special
        Issues', Management responds to several of the Requester's specific claims,
        including      (as    Management         outlines):     cumulative       impacts,      institutional




request refer to inadequate wages and other payments and compensation for work-related accidents
(including allegations of lack of enforcement of safety procedures), dismissal of some workers before the
completion of the relevant contract, disputes over amounts due and amounts effectively paid to some
workers, and disputes over the sub-contractors' contribution to the country's social security system. At this
stage, the Panel has not made a determination on whether some of those claims will come within its
purview.
44Request, at p. 7 ¶ 5(e).
45Request, at p. 7 ¶ 5(e).
46Management Response, October 29, 2002 (the "Response"), at p. 24 ¶ 72.


                                                                                                            8

        development, protected areas, Bakola, compensation, intensified supervision, and
        labor relations.47

   30. ENVIRONMENT. Concerning the environmental impact of the Project, Management
        states that the 1999 EA/EMP48 identifies and evaluates the potential impacts of the
        Project "and mitigation measures are fully described."49 Management also states
        that an adaptive design process is set to ensure "continual improvement in
        response to feedback during project implementation."50 This process, according to
        Management, will remain applicable throughout the life of the Pipeline Project.

   31. On cumulative impacts, Management considers that the analysis of these impacts
        was satisfactory. Management takes the position that the 1999 EA/EMP
        cumulative impact analysis properly focuses on impacts on natural habitats,
        tourism and fisheries. It explains that the Pipeline will leave "only a small
        footprint in Cameroon"51 which would consist of two pumping stations and one
        pressure station as well as a 15 meter strip above the buried pipeline which will be
        subject to some land use restrictions. As regards the impact of the off-shore
        floating storage and offloading vessel and the eleven kilometers off-shore pipeline,
        Management states that the selection of Kribi as an offloading site took into
        consideration the existence of a similar facility used for the export of the oil
        produced in the Ebomé oil field. Management also specifies that no significant
        environmental impact has been identified from the operation of the Ebomé facility,
        and considers that the risk of having an oil spill in both installations at the same
        time "statistically very unlikely."52

   32. Management also regards the Kribi area to be a low naval and fishery traffic area
        and considers that even during full production, in which two or three tankers per
        week will be loading, "cumulative impacts of the addition of tanker traffic are
        manageable (...)."53 As for the impact on tourism, Management refers to the Kribi
        Development Plan which designates the northern coast to be urban, residential and
        tourism areas, whereas the southern part is considered for industrial uses. It also
        notes that from an aesthetic point of view the facility would not even be visible
        from Lobé Falls which is supposedly the closest tourist area to Kribi.

   33. Management observes that an Area Specific Oil Spill Response Plan (ASOSRP)
        should be put in place and take into account the "full and informed participation of



47These issues along with others are more detailed in Annex 1 of the Response. Annex 2 of the Response
provides information on individual claims raised in the Request for Inspection. Management has not used
the actual names of the Requesters in discussing such individual claims, but the real names have been
provided to the Panel.
481999 Environmental Assessment/Environmental Management Plan.
49Response, at p. 20, Table 1.
50Response, at p. 20, Table 1.
51Response, at p. 5 ¶ 16.
52Response, at p. 6 ¶ 16.
53Response, at p. 6 ¶ 16.


                                                                                                       9

      potentially affected communities."54 The ASOSRP would then be part of the
      National Oil Spill Response Plan.

  34. In its Response, Management has stated the need to anticipate short-term `boom
      and bust' impacts around the construction sites. Accordingly, Management
      informs that a planning study of sites (`zones at risk') likely to be impacted by the
      construction of fixed facilities will be undertaken.

  35. On the analysis of alternatives, Management believes that it is in compliance with
      OD 4.01 and that it has "fully integrated environmental and social concerns, as
      well as technical and economic ones."55 Management considers that as a result of
      the analysis of alternatives, and in comparison to the 1997 EA, major changes
      were made in the pipeline route to avoid sensitive natural habitats, and indigenous
      groups. These changes were incorporated in the 1999 EA/EMP. According to
      Management, the EA adopted a method which avoids or minimizes the costs of
      environmental damage in the selection of the preferred alternatives for each
      component and for the Pipeline Project as a whole.

  36. Management recognizes the gaps in the baseline data collected in the 1997 EA and
      considers that subsequently collected data filled these gaps in the 1999 EA/EMP.
      Management also believes that the baseline study used in the 1999 EA/EMP was
      sufficient to evaluate potential impacts and determine appropriate mitigation
      measures. Management also refers to "innovative tools" linking the baseline data
      with the assessed impacts of the Pipeline Projects and the related mitigation
      measures.56

  37. Management reports that there have been instances where "water supply or
      pollution problems" occurred in the construction areas. However, according to
      Management, "appropriate action has been taken."57 Concerning the specific case
      of the Pembo River, Management suggests that any water flow reduction could
      have been caused by natural conditions.58

  38. As for fishing rights, Management believes that fishing losses "will be minimal"59
      and that provisions for compensation for fishing harvest losses and gear damage
      are included in the 1999 EA/EMP. Management further states that freshwater
      fishing restrictions prohibit project workers from fishing during the construction
      phase. Specifically concerning marine fishing, restrictions prohibit fishing in the
      "immediate construction sites"60 during the construction phase, and in a 1-
      kilometer exclusion zone surrounding the floating storage and offloading vessel.


54Response, at p. 6 ¶ 18.
55Response, at Annex 1, p. 25 no. 2.
56Response, at Annex 1, p. 27 no. 4.
57Response, at Annex 1, p. 31 no. 9.
58Response, at Annex 1, p. 31 no. 9.
59Response, at p. 20, Table 1.
60Response, at Annex 1, p. 29 no. 7.


                                                                                        10

  39. Concerning the lack of independent review during the design phase, Management
      admits that "compliance with OD 4.01 para. 13 was partial."61 Management states
      that contractual obstacles affected the relationship between the Independent Panel
      of Experts (IPE) and the Government of Cameroon (GOC) and that after the first
      year of the IPE's work, the contract was not renewed. Management, however,
      observes that the IPE's recommendations were taken into consideration later on in
      the 1997 EA. Management also adds that the Bank hired the International
      Advisory Group (IAG) and the External Compliance Monitoring Group (ECMG)
      to advise both the Governments of Cameroon and Chad and the Bank itself on the
      environmental and social aspects of Project implementation.

  40. NATURAL HABITATS. Regarding the claims raised by the Requesters concerning
      the Campo Ma'an National Park, Management believes it is in compliance with
      OD 4.04 and that the protected area, partially funded by the Global Environmental
      Fund (GEF), has been geographically extended to cover over 264,000 hectares.
      This area now constitutes the National Park of Campo Ma'an. Furthermore,
      Management considers that the Pipeline Project "played a catalytic"62 role in
      encouraging the GOC to provide the National Park an even enhanced legal
      protection, which Management refers to as "the highest level (...) under
      Cameroonian law."63 According to Management, the new legal regime includes
      protection against threats from industrial activities. Finally, Management adds that
      the GOC established a buffer zone of 419,000 hectares surrounding the Park which
      is subject to "special environmental provisions."64

  41. Management notes that the Foundation for Environment and Development in
      Cameroon (FEDEC), a non-profit entity to support implementation of mitigation
      measures for low level residual impacts to biodiversity and natural habitats,
      "started its activities very slowly."65 Management also observes that previous
      supervision missions emphasized that those delays should be reduced, and that
      FEDEC will contract in December 2002 with the World Wild Fund (WWF) to
      implement activities in the Park.

  42. INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION.                      In response to the
      Requester's claims of violation of OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement,
      Management reports that the Compensation Plan in the 1999 EA/EMP "meets and
      is being implemented in accordance with the requirements of OD 4.30." According
      to Management, no household in Cameroon have been physically resettled as a
      result of the project, and only one household has lost a significant portion of its
      assets. Management adds that this single household "has been treated in
      accordance with the resettlement provisions" of the Compensation Plan.66


61Response, at Annex 1, p. 32 no. 12.
62Response, at p. 11 ¶ 35.
63Response, at Annex 1, p. 33 no. 14.
64Response, at p. 11 ¶ 35.
65Response, at p. 13 ¶ 44.
66Response, at Annex 1, p. 38 no 18.


                                                                                       11

  43. Management maintains that the compensation process was conducted following
      "wide ranging consultations," and that individual choices were made on the basis
      of "a catalogue of options."67 Responding to the Requesters' allegations that some
      of the tools and equipments provided as compensation were defective,
      Management believes that the matter is being handled properly, and that, where
      appropriate, faulty tools and equipments have been replaced by COTCO.68

  44. Management disagrees with the Requesters' allegation that the grievance process
      adopted by the project is inadequate. Management informs that compensation is
      paid from two sources: the GOC and COTCO. The portion of the compensation
      paid by the Government may be challenged at two administrative instances, and
      then through the judiciary.         As for the portion of the compensation paid by
      COTCO, claims can be raised with the company for its evaluation "[i]n
      consultation with local officials, village chiefs and elders." According to
      Management, "in practice, COTCO's Local Community Contacts (LCCs) have
      played a key role in facilitating the registration of grievances and the mediation of
      disputes involving community members."          69



  45. Management reports that out of the more than 4,000 households that have been
      compensated for land and crop losses, only 27 claims remain unsettled.70
      According to Management, compensation has been paid before construction
      started in all but a few cases. For those unresolved cases, payment will be made as
      soon as ownership conflicts among affected individuals or legal/administrative
      issues are settled. While recognizing that consideration of these claims has been
      slow,71 Management states that complete dossiers are maintained on such claims.72

  46. Although Management questions the application of OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction
      to the Pipeline Project in Cameroon, it believes that it is in compliance with the
      relevant provisions of the policy, since the majority of the affected persons have
      benefited from the compensation offered. Contrary to the allegations made in the
      Request, Management maintains that land acquisition for the project will not lead
      to "structural impoverishment" because the land used will be returned to its
      owners after one agricultural cycle, and that half of this land will be subject to a
      permanent easement of the Pipeline (meaning that tree-crop cultivation will not be
      allowed, but annual crops and grazing will be permitted). According to
      Management "[t]he small parcels acquired for the construction of the permanent
      facilities (pumping and pressure reduction stations) have been appropriately
      compensated."73

67Response, at Annex 1, p. 39 no.18. According to Management, same method has been used in regards to
community compensation.
68Response, at Annex 1, p. 41 no. 20.
69Response, at p. 17 ¶ 60.
70Response, at p. 22, Table 1.
71Response, at Annex 1, p. 40 no. 18.
72Response, at Annex 1, p. 39 no. 18.
73Response, at Annex 1, p. 41.no. 20.


                                                                                                  12

  47. As to how the affected people used the compensation provided, Management
      admits that while in some cases compensation was not properly used, efforts have
      been made to inform communities of the purpose of compensation. Management
      also pledges to request follow up actions from both the GOC and COTCO on the
      use of compensation to ensure that "no permanent decline in living standards takes
      place."74

  48. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES. Management believes that it is in compliance with the
      requirements of OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples, and considers that the Indigenous
      Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) is in compliance with Bank policy. According
      to Management, the IPDP's objective is to ensure the Bakola population receives
      "culturally compatible social and economic benefits from the Pipeline
      Project."75According to Management, the main goal of the IPDP is to "raise their
      standard of living and empower their communities so that they can take their place
      as full citizens of Cameroon and establish their position within the local customary
      land use system."76

  49. Management states that COTCO held "a two-day consultation meeting with the
      Bakola at Kribi."77 These consultations, according to Management, helped to
      clarify the needs of the Bakola, and the design of "a participatory planning
      process"78 which is to be implemented as part of the IPDP. Management adds that
      two full time anthropologists with "extensive experience with the Bakola
      settlements"79 have been working as members of COTCO's team.

  50. Management, however, notes the late establishment of FEDEC and the
      Community Development Facilitator, which are primarily responsible for the
      implementation of the IPDP strategy. According to Management, during the delays
      in establishing FEDEC, COTCO anticipated its implementation role. To date, the
      implementation of three priority projects to benefit the Bakola have started:
      provision of identity cards, a schooling program (distribution of schoolbooks and
      school supplies), and a health program (anti-tuberculosis program and creation of a
      special medical fund). Furthermore, according to Management, a planned
      agricultural program should start with the next growing season.

  51. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT. In the context of capacity building, Management
      is aware that "pipeline construction began before effective supervision and
      monitoring capacity was in place"80 at the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring
      Committee (CPSP), that the implementation of CAPECE "started very slowly,"81

74Response, at Annex 1, p. 41 no. 20.
75Response, at Annex 1, p. 35 no. 16.
76Response, at p. 15 ¶ 50.
77Response, at Annex 1, p. 37 no. 17.
78Response, at Annex 1, p. 37 no. 17.
79Response, at Annex 1, p. 36 no. 17.
80Response, at p. 8 ¶ 24.
81Response, at Annex 1, p. 33 no. 13.


                                                                                       13

      and that the CPSP has sometimes been working "without adequate equipment
      and/or appropriate support."82 Nevertheless, Management states that continuous
      dialogue between the Bank and the GOC resulted in progress in the
      implementation of the CAPECE Project. It also resulted in the speeding up of the
      procurement process by the CPSP, and the preparation of monthly and quarterly
      reports. These reports were sent on a regular basis to the Bank. Management also
      highlights that the CAPECE Project ensures that the Permanent Secretariat of the
      CPSP coordinates the implementation and supervision of the 1999 EA/EMP.

  52. WORKERS' ISSUES. According to Management, the Agreement of Establishment
      signed between the GOC and COTCO obligates COTCO to contract with local
      workers and to develop a training program for them. Cameroonian legislation
      governs the relations between COTCO and its workers and any dispute resulting
      from employment contracts. Management indicates that Regulation No. 24 MTS
      of May 27, 1969, prescribes that wage rates shall be those paid for civil works
      projects and not those for the petroleum sector, which are normally higher.83

  53. Management notes that the Cameroonian Ministry of Labor has determined that
      the agreements signed between COTCO sub-contractors and their workforce are
      appropriate as proposed by the Ministry of Labor. Nevertheless, Management
      concurs with the recommendations of the May 2002 IAG Report on Visit to
      Cameroon, which proposes that COTCO and its sub-contractors introduce an
      information system enabling timely specification of responsibilities and rapid
      settlement of disputes.84

  54. Concerning health issues related to the construction of the pipeline, Management
      considers COTCO's health and safety requirements to be in conformity with the
      standards set out in the 1999 EA/EMP.85 Accordingly, Management states that
      COTCO sub-contractors have provided medical facilities for their employees and
      regularly screen and treat them for curable sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).86
      Management also considers that the health programs set out by the sub-
      contractors, including programs of health education and immunization as well as
      condom distribution, "have reached a level of effectiveness above the national
      average."87

  55. HEALTH. In response to the Requesters claims concerning STDs, HIV/AIDS, and
      prostitution, Management indicates that the Bank does not have a specific policy
      covering such concerns.88 Moreover, according to Management, there is no raw
      data on the current HIV/AIDS prevalence rate.89 Management, however, noted that

82Response, at p. 8 ¶ 26.
83Response, at Annex 1, p. 44 no. 25.
84Response, at Annex 1, p. 44 no. 25.
85Response, at p. 23, Table 1.
86Response, at Annex 1, p. 45 no. 26.
87Response, at Annex 1, p. 45 no. 26.
88Response, at Annex 1, p. 44 no. 26.
89Response, at Annex 1, p. 45 no. 26.


                                                                                     14

      since the Pipeline Project has given a boost to the local economy, it is likely that
      there has been renewed sexual activity, including prostitution, spread of STDs and
      increased vulnerability to HIV/AIDS.

  56. According to Management, the GOC has concentrated its health efforts along the
      Pipeline route in Dompta, Kribi, Bélabo, Nanga Eboko, and Batchenga, and has
      appointed in July 2002, five health-specialists to work on related programs in the
      five provinces crossed by the pipeline. In August 2002, the GOC has also built,
      equipped, and staffed, a new health center in Dompta.90 Moreover, Management
      indicates that the CPSP is responsible under the CAPECE Project for supporting
      the Ministry of Public Health to promote the protection of public health, but
      recognizes that the health component under the CAPECE Project had a slow
      start.91

  57. Management also states that a US$50 million equivalent IDA credit supports
      Cameroon's national strategy to fight HIV/AIDS under the Multi-sectoral AIDS
      Program.92 Nevertheless, Management recognizes that administrative issues within
      the Ministry of Health delayed the implementation of the AIDS Program, adding
      that an international consultant is currently employed in the Bank's Cameroon
      Country Office to assist the GOC on this matter. According to Management,
      "recent changes in the Ministry have speeded up implementation" of the AIDS
      Program.93

  58. In response to the Requesters concerns regarding prostitution, and specifically that
      of minors, Management recognizes that the problem has increased along the
      Pipeline "mainly due to professional and relatively organized sex workers coming
      from urban areas."94 Management also states that the Cameroonian National
      Committee to Fight HIV/AIDS (CNLS), the German Technical Assistance Agency
      (GTZ), and two NGOs are preparing an agreement according to which the two
      NGOs will be in charge of "sensitization efforts" along the pipeline. These efforts,
      according to Management, are designed to assist, inter alia, in the limitation of
      prostitution of minors through a "tantine" system whereby older women sensitize
      young girls, based on their own experience and focus primarily on delaying the
      first sexual relations of minors.95

  59. Management, however, points out that it would be difficult to "distinguish any
      Project-related impact from the general spread of HIV/AIDS."96 Management adds
      that it will continue to monitor and support action against prostitution of minors




90Response, at Annex 1, p. 45 no. 26.
91Response, at Annex 1, p. 42 no. 23.
92Response, at p. 23, Table 1. The Credit became effective in September 2001.
93Response, at Annex 1, p. 45 no. 26.
94Response, at Annex 1, p. 45 no. 26.
95Response, at Annex 1, p. 46 no. 26.
96Response, at Annex 1, p. 45 no. 26.


                                                                                       15

       and HIV/AIDS spread in the Project area, as it will continue to address these issues
       in the context of its broader poverty reduction dialogue with Cameroon.97

   60. CONSULTATION AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION. According to Management,
       Bank staff and the ECMG identified no significant issues dealing with disclosure
       of information during their field supervision missions.98 Management also
       maintains that the consultation process has been in compliance with all applicable
       Bank policies and procedures. Management states that the general public was able
       to consult the 19-volume EA/EMP in reading rooms in seventeen locations in June
       1999. Management also states that 400 public meetings were held between 1997
       and 1999, of which 111 were held with affected people in their villages. 99

   61. Furthermore, according to Management, the Groupe de Concertation et d'Action
       (a Cameroonian umbrella NGO) organized a seminar for stakeholders in August
       1998, which provided feedback on how project implementation is perceived and
       how it should be strengthened. Also, nine other NGOs participated in a survey
       among the concerned population to develop a catalogue of in-kind compensation,
       which the Service d'Appui aux Initiatives Locales de Développement (SAILD), a
       local NGO, disseminated information concerning compensation rates in its
       newspaper "La Voix du Paysan."100

   62. Management believes that the Bank's periodic supervision missions ensure
       consultation with the local population, as they "hold regular meetings with local
       NGOs."101 However, Management recognizes that communications with civil
       society could be improved and states that it is working with the GOC and COTCO
       to "improve communications strategies for more effective consultations and
       involvement of civil society in the Pipeline Project." Management adds that the
       Bank, CPSP, and COTCO are jointly preparing a communication plan.102
       Management also considers that COTCO's LCCs and CPSP's Socio-Economic
       Monitors are essential to the consultation process.103

   63. Management believes that the consultation process with the Bakola was effective
       and met Bank requirements. The Groupe d'Etude des Populations Forestières
       Equatoriales, COTCO's consultants, held 165 field visits. These visits were, along
       with a consultation meeting with the Bakola held by COTCO in 1998, the basis for
       the preparation of the IPDP.104

   64. PROJECT SUPERVISION. According to Management, supervision of the Pipeline
       and the CAPECE Projects takes place at several levels. Firstly, the GOC, through

97Response, at Annex 1, p. 46 no. 26.
98Response, at Annex 1, p. 40 no. 19.
99Response, at Annex 1, p. 30 no. 8.
100Response, at Annex 1, p. 30 no. 8.
101Response, at Annex 1, p. 31 no. 8.
102Response, at p. 21, Table 1.
103Response, at p. 23, Table 1.
104See further discussions under Indigenous Peoples paragraphs 49 to 51 of this Report.


                                                                                           16

       several of its Ministries and CPSP, supervises the implementation of the Projects
       and compliance with the 1999 EA/EMP by COTCO. Secondly, in addition to
       Bank staff at headquarters, the Project Task Manager residing in Chad and a staff
       member located in Cameroon have responsibility to supervise the Projects and to
       maintain close relationships with the different stakeholders. Finally, two external
       groups, the Environmental Compliance and Monitoring Group (ECMG) and the
       International Advisor Group (IAG) reinforce the supervision framework by also
       monitoring the Projects' implementation and compliance with the 1999 EA/EMP.

   65. As each of the different levels mentioned above is required to report on its
       activities, Management considers that the different supervision missions and
       reports have helped identify and raise relevant issues including delays in
       implementation, concerns over watercourses and water quality, as well as road
       construction.105 Management indicates that IAG's and ECMG's reports have been
       made public, and that "[t]he ECMG has concluded that ongoing Project activities
       are in compliance with the EMP and that the Project has so far experienced no
       critical (Level III, at which no change can be made to the EMP without prior
       approval of the Bank) non-compliance situations."106

   66. Management agrees that while construction of the Pipeline was expeditious, the
       implementation of the CAPECE Project was delayed. Management asserts,
       however, that it has intensified its supervision efforts to accelerate implementation
       of said Project.107 Management further admits that supervision can be improved
       through communication with the civil society.                 In this context, Management
       reports that COTCO has positioned Local Community Contact officers (LCCs) all
       along the pipeline to work in collaboration with a team of socio-economists from
       CPSP.

       E. Eligibility

   67. For purposes of determining the eligibility criteria for the Request and the
       Requesters, the Panel reviewed the Request and Management's Response. Panel
       Chairman Edward S. Ayensu, met in Washington with Mr. Paulo Fernando
       Gomes, Executive Director, and Mr. Louis Philippe Ong Seng, Alternate
       Executive Director, representing the Government of Cameroon, and the Senior
       Advisor to the Executive Director, Mr. Yssouf Bamba, as well as with other Bank
       officials and staff.

   68. The Panel Chairman next visited Cameroon from November 2 through November
       9, 2002.108 During his visit, the Chairman met with affected people in the Project




105Response, at Annex 1, p. 42 no. 22.
106Response, at p. 18 no. 63.
107Response, at Annex 1, p. 42 no. 23.
108The Panel's Assistant Executive Secretary Mr. Alberto Ninio assisted the Chairman.


                                                                                             17

         area,109 the Requesters, representatives of the CED, COTCO officials and two of
         its sub-contractors (Willbros West Africa, Inc. and Doba Logistics S.A.), as well
         as with Government and Bank officials in Yaoundé.110

   69. During the visit, the Panel confirmed that, CED and other signatories of the
         Request are legitimate parties under the Resolution to submit a Request for
         Inspection to the Inspection Panel.

   70. The Panel is satisfied that this Request meets the "technical eligibility criteria"
         outlined in paragraph 9 of the 1999 Clarification, as the Request "does assert in
         substance that a serious violation by the Bank of its operational policies and
         procedures has or may likely to have material adverse effect." The Panel is also
         satisfied that the subject matter of the Request has been brought to Management's
         attention and it is not related to procurement. Furthermore the Panel has not
         previously made a recommendation on the subject matter of the Request, and that
         the related loan and credit have not been closed or substantially disbursed.111

   71. Based on the foregoing, the Panel concludes that the eligibility criteria set forth in
         the Resolution for the Request and the Requesters have been met.

         F. Conclusions

   72. The Request and Management Response contain conflicting assertions and
         interpretations about the issues, the facts, compliance with Bank policies and
         procedures, and actual harm and potential harm. The Panel is neither able to
         address these conflicting statements in the period available to it to prepare and
         submit this report on eligibility, nor is it allowed to do so pursuant to the 1999
         Clarifications of the Resolution.112 The Panel can only address these issues during
         the course of an investigation.

         G. Recommendation

   73. In the light of the foregoing, the Panel recommends an investigation into the
         matters alleged in the Request.




109During the visit, the following places were visited by the Chairman of the Inspection Panel: Yaoundé,
Nkongzok, Kribi, Mpango, Makouré, Bidjouka and Saballi.
110The Panel wishes to thank the office of the Executive Director representing Cameroon for the assistance
provided during the eligibility stage. It wishes to thank Government officials, NGO representatives, local
people and representatives of COTCO, Willbros West Africa and Doba Logistics who took time to meet
with the Panel's team. Finally, it would like to thank Bank staff in Cameroon and in Washington for their
logistical support.
111See paragraph 9 of the "1999 Clarifications."
112According to paragraph 7 of the "1999 Clarifications" when the Panel makes a field visit to establish
eligibility it "will not report on the Bank's failure to comply with its policies and procedures or its resulting
material adverse effect (...)."


                                                                                                              18

