                     BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
            REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT AND
           CAMEROON PETROLEUM ENVIRONMENT CAPACITY
                          ENHANCEMENT PROJECT

Management has reviewed the Request for Inspection of the Cameroon Petroleum
Development and Pipeline Project (Loan 7020-CM), and the Cameroon Petroleum
Environment Capacity Enhancement Project (Credit No. 3372-CM), received by the
Inspection Panel on September 25, 2002 and registered on September 30, 2002.
Management has prepared the following response.

                                                     CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms .........................................................................................iii

Introduction....................................................................................................................... 1

I.   The Request.............................................................................................................. 1

II.  Project Background................................................................................................. 3

      A.   Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project ................................................ 3

      B.   Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project (CAPECE)............. 5

III. Special Issues............................................................................................................ 5

      A.   Cumulative Impacts ........................................................................................ 5

      B.   Institutional Development............................................................................... 7

      C.   Protected Areas............................................................................................. 10

      D.   Bakola ........................................................................................................... 13

      E.   Compensation ............................................................................................... 15

      F.   Intensified Supervision ................................................................................. 18

      G.   Labor Relations............................................................................................. 19

IV. Management's Response....................................................................................... 20


Table 1.      Summary of Bank Activities

Maps

Map 1.    Cameroon ­ Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (IBRD 32132)
Map 2.    Cameroon ­ Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project ­ Campo-Ma'an
          National Park (IBRD 32148)

Annexes

Annex 1. Claims and Responses
Annex 2. Responses to Claims Involving Individual Cases




                                                             ii

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASOSRPs      Area Specific Oil Spill Response Plans
BP           Bank Procedure
CAPECE       Cameroon Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement
             Project
CCS          Cameroon Chad Specifications
CDF          Community Development Facilitator
CED          Center for Environment and Development
CFAF         CFA Franc
CLS          Center Line Survey
CNLS         Comité National de Lutte contre le Sida (National
             Committee to Fight HIV/AIDS)
COTCO        Cameroon Oil Transportation Company, S.A.
CPSP         Comité de Pilotage et de Suivi des Pipelines (Pipeline
             Steering and Monitoring Committee)
CS           Comité de Suivi
EA           Environmental Assessment
EAS          Environmental Alignment Sheet
ECMG         Environmental Compliance Monitoring Group
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
FEDEC        Foundation for Environment and Development in
             Cameroon
FOB          Free On Board
FSO          Floating Storage and Offloading Vessel
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GEPFE        Groupe d'Étude des Populations Forestières Équatoriales
             (Study Group for Equatorial Forest Populations)
GOC          Government of Cameroon
GOSRP        General Oil Spill Response Plan
GPS          Global Positioning System
GTZ          Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (German
             technical assistance agency)
HIV/AIDS     Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired Immune
             Deficiency Syndrome
IAG          International Advisory Group
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          International Development Association
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IPDP         Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IPE          Independent Panel of Experts
LCC          Local Community Contact
NGO          Nongovernmental Organization



                           iii

NOSRP     National Oil Spill Response Plan
OD        Operational Directive
ONADEF    Office National de Développement des Forêts (National
          Office for Forest Development)
OP        Operational Policy
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAILD     Service d'Appui aux Initiatives Locales de Développement
          (Action Service for Local Development Initiatives)
SNH       Société Nationale des Hydrocarbures (National
          Hydrocarbons Company)
STDs      Sexually Transmitted Diseases
UNFPA     United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USD       United States Dollar
UTO       Unité Technique Opérationnelle
WCS       Wildlife Conservation Society
WWF       World Wide Fund for Nature


                 Currency Unit
              USD 1 = CFAF 700




                        iv

                                    INTRODUCTION

1.     On September 30, 2002 the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection,
IPN Request RQ 02/2 (hereafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the Cameroon
Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (the "Pipeline Project") financed by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), and the Cameroon
Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project (the "CAPECE Project"),
financed by the International Development Association (IDA).



                                  I.    THE REQUEST

2.     The Request for Inspection was submitted by the Center for Environment and
Development (CED), a local nongovernmental organization (NGO) based in Yaoundé,
representing several residents who live along the oil pipeline route, as well as several
workers or sub-contractors of Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A. (COTCO),
who are all resident in the Republic of Cameroon (hereafter referred to as the
"Requestors").

3.     Attached to the Request are:

       (i)     Minutes of Collective Negotiations between Labor and Management of
               Doba Logistics, Cameroon, February 27-28, 2002;

       (ii)    Letter of January 16, 2002 from an inhabitant of Nkongzok II to the Prime
               Minister of Cameroon requesting assistance in payment of compensation;

       (iii)   Letter of May 26, 1998 from the villagers of Ebomé to COTCO
               concerning loss of the village's water source;

       (iv)    Letter of February 27, 2001 from the Deputy Permanent Secretary of the
               Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee (CPSP - Comité de Pilotage
               et de Suivi des Pipelines), based at the Société Nationale des
               Hydrocarbures (SNH - National Hydrocarbons Company) to the inhabitant
               of Nkongzok II regarding evaluation of his plantation for compensation;

       (v)     Contract and termination documents for an employee of Doba Logistics
               who was let go prior to expiration of the contract;

       (vi)    Letter of December 19, 2001 from an inhabitant of Mpango/Kribi to
               Willbros-Spie-Capag concerning difficulty of access to his property;

       (vii)   Letter of May 3, 2001 from COTCO to the inhabitant of Mpango in
               response to his letter of April 22, 2001;

       (viii) Medical documentation (hospital services and prescriptions) dated April
               2002 for an employee of ATM Services;

Cameroon                                                                  Management Response



       (ix)   Termination letter and documentation for this same employee in May
              2002;

       (x)    Minutes of a meeting on June 4, 1998 concerning destruction of property
              belonging to an inhabitant of Makouré/Kribi;

       (xi)   Agreement reached between this inhabitant and COTCO on December 29,
              2001;

       (xii)  Letter of August 2, 2000 from this inhabitant to COTCO concerning
              additional trees not recognized in the previous agreement;

       (xiii) Letter of October 6, 2000 from COTCO in response to the above;

       (xiv)  Agreement between COTCO and the inhabitant resolving the issue
              (undated);

       (xv)   Letter, undated, from the inhabitant of Mpango/Kribi (same as cited above
              in (vi)), to the General Director of the Pipeline Project delineating
              numerous problems with the pipeline construction in proximity to his
              home; and

       (xvi)  "Traversing People's Lives," article by Samuel Nguiffo, Center for
              Environment and Development/Friends of the Earth ­ Cameroon, Friends
              of the Earth ­ International.

No further materials were received by Management in support of the Request.

4.     The Request alleges that the Bank has not complied with the following policies
and procedures:

       OD 4.01        on Environmental Assessment, October 1991;

       OP/BP 4.04     on Natural Habitats, June 2001/September 1995;

       OD 4.15        on Poverty Reduction, December 1991;

       OD 4.20        on Indigenous Peoples, September 1991;

       OD 4.30        on Involuntary Resettlement, June 1990; and

       OP 13.05       on Project Supervision, July 2001.




                                             2

Cameroon                                                                   Management Response



                             II. PROJECT BACKGROUND


A.    PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT

5.      The Pipeline Project is the single largest private sector investment in Sub-Saharan
Africa. It is expected to cost about USD 3.7 billion, of which about 4 percent are funded
by the Bank and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The private sponsors,
ExxonMobil of the United States (the operator, with 40 percent of the private equity),
Petronas of Malaysia (35 percent), and Chevron of the United States (25 percent), which
form a consortium (the Consortium), will develop three oil fields in southern Chad. The
Project will also comprise the construction of a 1,070-kilometer pipeline from the oil
fields to Cameroon's Atlantic coast at Kribi, three related pumping stations, ancillary
facilities, infrastructure improvements, and installation of an offshore Floating Storage
and Offloading (FSO) vessel with an 11-kilometer submarine pipeline from the coastline
near Kribi to the vessel. See Map 1.

6.      The Bank, IDA and IFC were originally approached to participate in the Pipeline
Project in 1992. The involvement of the Bank and IFC in the Pipeline Project is
predicated on: (i) the unique opportunity it presents for Chad as well as Cameroon to
generate additional revenues to combat poverty; and (ii) the need to implement the
Pipeline Project in a socially and environmentally sound manner in both countries. This
approach to the Pipeline Project has been essential in integrating a range of relevant
challenges into Project preparation, including social and environmental issues.

7.      The Pipeline Project was prepared by the Consortium and the Governments of
Chad and Cameroon, with the assistance of the Bank, IFC and other public and private
lenders, from 1993 to 1999. The Consortium and the Governments of Chad and
Cameroon have established TOTCO and COTCO, two joint-venture companies to own
and operate, respectively, the Chad and Cameroon portions of the Export System. The
Government of Cameroon (GOC) also owns a portion of COTCO. Esso Export and
Production Chad, Inc. is the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project's manager and
operator, responsible for overall coordination of the Pipeline Project, including with
TOTCO and COTCO, the two Governments, the Bank, IFC, and other lenders.

8.      The Project was appraised by the Bank in late June and early July 1999 and
negotiated by the Bank from February to April 2000. An IBRD loan of USD 53.4 million
to the Republic of Cameroon, which will finance part of the equity of the GOC in
COTCO, was approved by the Bank's Executive Directors on June 6, 2000. An IFC A
Loan of USD 100 million which mobilized up to USD 100 million in commercial bank
lending to fund a portion of the Project costs of the Export System in Chad and
Cameroon, was approved by IFC's Executive Directors on June 6, 2000. The European
Investment Bank (EIB), like IBRD, provided financing to the GOC (about USD 29.6
million equivalent) to finance its equity investment in COTCO.

9.      The Pipeline Project will provide additional revenues in Cameroon which can be
used for the social sectors and other essential public expenditure needs. Cameroon's
revenues expected from the pipeline are not significant enough (about 3 percent of total



                                              3

Cameroon                                                                  Management Response



Government revenues) to justify a special mechanism such as that provided under Chad's
Petroleum Revenue Management Program; in addition, Cameroon's reform program,
supported by the Bank, includes efforts towards budget consolidation. Through its
lending program and country dialogue, the Bank is assisting Cameroon to use the benefits
of the pipeline activity to support its poverty strategy. Cameroon's full PRSP is expected
to be transmitted to the Bank and the IMF by the end of 2002.

10.     As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the development objective of
the Pipeline Project in Cameroon is to increase fiscal revenues available for financing
priority development expenditures, through environmentally and socially sound private
investment in the petroleum sector and in the context of the GOC's strategy for economic
growth and poverty reduction. The construction and operation of the pipeline is a major
project that will provide significant income to the Cameroonian economy through transit
fees, the GOC's dividends from its share of COTCO, and taxes. Effective environmental
and social protection will minimize the direct and indirect costs to Cameroon associated
with this pipeline.

11.     Before the Pipeline Project was appraised, the GOC established an
interministerial committee, the CPSP, by Decree 97-116 of July 7, 1997. The
Administrator General of the SNH is the Chairman of the CPSP, which is comprised of
representatives from all ministries and agencies involved in the supervision and
monitoring of pipeline construction and operation. The CPSP has two arms:

· The "Comité de Suivi" (CS) is the steering, monitoring and administrative arm,
    comprised of representatives of fifteen ministries involved in authorizing, overseeing,
    and monitoring pipeline construction and operation activities. The Chairman reports
    to the President of the Republic. Among its other duties, the CS is responsible for
    ensuring that all the parties involved comply with their obligations under the 1999
    Environmental Assessment/Environmental Management Plan (EA/EMP), including
    the Compensation Plan; and

· The "Permanent Secretariat" is the operational arm in charge of implementing the
    mandates of the CPSP at field level, and reporting to the CS.

The operating rules and procedures of the CPSP and the Permanent Secretariat were
defined by a Presidential Arrêté of August 24, 1999 which clarified the implementing
rules of Decree 97-116. This Arrêté also established the administrative structure of the
CPSP, which has six operational units to implement its mandates. They are staffed with
environmental, pollution control, economic, social and health experts.

12.     The Consortium and the Borrowers under the Bank loans share the responsibility
for implementing the Pipeline Project. The Pipeline Project was designed in such a way
that COTCO is responsible for most of the implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP). The GOC is responsible for implementation of part of the
compensation process, in cooperation with COTCO, and for overall supervision and
monitoring of implementation of the EMP, in accordance with the applicable laws and
regulations of the country and procedures spelled out in the EMP itself.



                                              4

Cameroon                                                                    Management Response



13.     During preparation of the Pipeline Project, the institutional framework described
above and Cameroon's capacity were assessed and determined to require additional
support in order to successfully supervise and monitor the 1999 EA/EMP. Bank-GOC
dialogue on the capacity issue resulted in the design and implementation of a capacity-
building project (the CAPECE Project) to benefit the CPSP, its executive arm, and the
various ministries and agencies involved in the supervision and monitoring of the 1999
EA/EMP.


B.    PETROLEUM ENVIRONMENT CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT PROJECT (CAPECE)

14.     The IDA-financed CAPECE Project (USD 5.77 million) was approved on June 6,
2000, and declared effective on March 28, 2001. The overarching objectives of the
CAPECE Project are to: assist the GOC to develop and establish a national capacity for
the environmental management and monitoring the Pipeline Project; and on a medium- to
long-term basis, to help ensure the environmental sustainability of future projects,
programs and policies in the petroleum sector in Cameroon. To achieve these objectives,
the CAPECE Project was designed to: (i) support the strengthening of the institutional,
legal and regulatory framework for environmental management in the oil sector; (ii)
strengthen the Permanent Secretariat's central units and field-based multi-disciplinary
teams to monitor socio-economic, bio-physical and health impacts including HIV/AIDS
along the pipeline road on a regular basis during the construction phase and later during
operation of the pipeline; (iii) coordinate and monitor field activities including support to
other ministries and agencies involved in monitoring implementation of the 1999
EA/EMP for the pipeline; (iv) enhance information, education, communication and health
programs related to pipeline construction and operation; and (v) manage and monitor
environmental information.



                                  III. SPECIAL ISSUES


A.    CUMULATIVE IMPACTS

15.     The Requestors claim a violation of OD 4.01 in that the environmental impact
study has not undertaken an analysis of the cumulative impacts of the Pipeline Project. In
that connection, they allege that the EA did not take sufficient account of the operations
for exploiting oil in the Ebomé region (Kribi), or of the possible benefits of tourism
development in Kribi.

16.     Management does not agree with the Requestors' claim, and takes the position
that the degree of cumulative impact analysis undertaken for the Pipeline Project's impact
in Cameroon was satisfactory and in compliance with OD 4.01. In determining the
cumulative impacts to be assessed, Management took into account that the Pipeline
Project will leave only a small footprint in Cameroon. The footprint consists of two
pumping stations and one pressure reduction station, occupying only a few hectares of
land. The pipeline will be buried. The 15-meter strip above the buried pipeline (the
"System Easement") will be subject to some land use restrictions and will be monitored


                                              5

Cameroon                                                                     Management Response



by COTCO. However, annual crops and grazing will be permitted on the easement. Thus,
Management believes that the 1999 EA/EMP adequately considered cumulative impacts,
by focusing especially on impacts on natural habitat, as well as impacts on tourism and
fisheries in the Kribi area. Induced access management controls were considered
necessary in areas where the pipeline easement might otherwise provide access to
sensitive natural habitats, and such controls were included in the 1999 EA/EMP (Induced
Access Management Plan, Cameroon Portion, Volume 1, Appendix D). Regarding
impacts of the Pipeline Project in the Kribi area, the selected location of the offshore
facility did take into account the ongoing production of the offshore Ebomé oil field
south of Kribi. This field supplies an FSO vessel similar to the one which will be put in
place under the Pipeline Project. No significant environmental impacts have been
identified from the operation of this FSO. Following a review of the issue, Management
has determined that the anticipated cumulative impacts of the Ebomé marine terminal and
the Pipeline Project marine terminal are low. The risk of an oil spill from both
installations at the same time is considered as statistically very unlikely. The Pipeline
Project's FSO itself will have very little impact on the surrounding marine environment.
With respect to the frequency of tankers loading at the FSO it is planned for one tanker to
load every three weeks during early production (50,000 to 75,000 barrels/day and two or
three tankers per week during full production (225,000 barrels/day). This is a low traffic
area and while there is a small commercial offshore fishery the cumulative impacts of the
addition of tanker traffic are manageable and tanker traffic will be managed by COTCO
as part of their export responsibilities and FSO ASOSRP.

17.     The selected location of the pipeline route and offshore facility also takes into
account the Kribi Development Plan, which designates the northern coast as the region
for urban residential and tourism development. Industrial uses are located south of Kribi,
in an area where a deepwater port may be implemented in the future. There is a site of
potential tourism interest at Lobé Falls, south of Kribi; however, this area supports
mainly local beach use at the present time. Aesthetic and tourism values would not be
altered by the proposed offshore facility, which would not even be visible from Lobé
Falls (more than eleven kilometers out to sea). Development of the onshore pressure
reduction station east of the town of Kribi, and of the offshore FSO, would not in any
way hamper access to this area.

18.     Concerning the potential for cumulative impacts in regard to people living near
the pipeline, the May 2002 Report of the International Advisory Group (IAG; see para.
62) on its 3rd Statutory Mission, Cameroon, April 7-18, 2002, indicates that, despite
improved communication by COTCO and the GOC, people living along the pipeline are
worried about the impact that the operation of the permanent facilities will have on their
health and their future. To address these concerns, the IAG recommends deployment of
an effective information campaign on the subject. The Bank will continue to work with
COTCO and the GOC to improve performance in this respect. Particular emphasis will be
given to ensuring full and informed participation of potentially affected communities in
the planning of the Area Specific Oil Spill Response Plan (ASOSRP) for the Kribi area
and the conduct of the National Oil Spill Response Plan (NOSRP) study.




                                              6

Cameroon                                                                    Management Response



19.     The Pipeline Project will leave a legacy of improved roads and other
infrastructure which it will be the GOC's responsibility to maintain in the future. The
GOC will also be responsible for the protection and management of forests and
biodiversity in areas where the pipeline easement and associated infrastructure may
provide increased access. These concerns will become increasingly important as pressure
is growing from the local population to maintain access infrastructure rather than
removing it as foreseen in the Induced Access Management Plan. Management plans to
maintain a continuing dialogue with the GOC and all stakeholders in Cameroon to ensure
that these issues are addressed in ways consistent with the GOC's poverty reduction and
environmental management strategies.

20.     During preparation of the Pipeline Project, and consistent with the concern to
address potential cumulative impacts, Bank missions raised with the GOC the need to
anticipate short term "boom and bust" impacts around the construction sites, and longer-
term social impacts in the vicinity of the fixed facilities. Under the CAPECE Project,
CPSP is to undertake a planning study of sites likely to be impacted by the construction
of fixed facilities (study of "zones at risk"). The local consultant has been selected and
the contract is in the process of being signed. This study will recommend actions to be
taken by central and local authorities to strengthen social infrastructure and services
(particularly water supply and health care) in the areas that have been or are likely to be
affected. External financing may be needed to assist the GOC in implementing the
recommendations of this study.

21.     A related concern of the international community has been the cumulative impact
of the Pipeline Project with other operations in the oil sector in Cameroon. To address
this concern, the CAPECE Project includes the execution of a "Vision Study" for the
petroleum sector that would assess and help develop the capacity for cumulative impact
assessment within the institutions responsible for petroleum sector management. This
study is expected to start after the CAPECE Project Mid-Term Review. While such
assessments would be desirable for future energy projects, Management believes that the
incremental impact of the Pipeline Project (which, in Cameroon, is an oil transportation,
not an oil production project) on Cameroon's domestic energy sector is not significant
enough to warrant a separate sectoral assessment.


B.    INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT

22.     It was a Government decision (Decree 97/116 of July 7, 1997), some time before
the Pipeline Project was accepted for Bank financing, to establish the CPSP as the main
body in charge of supervising and monitoring pipeline construction and operation. This
Decree was enacted under the law related to the construction and operation of pipelines in
Cameroon.

23.     After the Bank was requested to participate in the financing of the Pipeline
Project and after due consideration of the 1999 EA/EMP, including the national capacity
for environmental management and monitoring, it was agreed that the CPSP needed to be
strengthened. The CAPECE Project was designed to meet that objective; however,
beyond the CPSP's responsibility for monitoring the Pipeline Project, the ultimate goal of


                                                7

Cameroon                                                                    Management Response



the CAPECE Project is to strengthen the national capacity of Cameroon to manage and
protect its environment, with particular reference to the petroleum sector. Implementation
of the CAPECE Project is the responsibility of the CPSP. CPSP membership involves
wide participation from all ministries involved in pipeline supervision and monitoring,
especially those sectoral ministries in charge of public works, health, mining and water,
finance, justice, labor, agriculture, energy, and culture. The members of CPSP were
appointed by Presidential Arrêté in 1999.

24.      Management recognizes that pipeline construction began before effective
supervision and monitoring capacity was in place at the CPSP level. Implementation of
the CAPECE Project was slow in the beginning. However, continuous Bank-Cameroon
dialogue has resulted in progress in implementation of the various components of the
CAPECE Project, including hiring, training and dispatching biophysical and socio-
economic specialists to the pipeline construction zone, improved coordination among the
various agencies and ministries involved in supervision and monitoring of pipeline
construction, and better collection and treatment of Project-related information. During
its last supervision mission, the Environmental Compliance Monitoring Group (ECMG;
see para. 62) noted that "Cameroon's field monitoring capacity improved significantly,
with a sizeable increase in the number of engineers, foresters, and socio-economists
working full-time, except in the health sector." This assessment is shared by the IAG,
which during its 3rd Statutory Mission in April 2002, advised that the capacity building
activities should continue at a rapid pace to ensure effective supervision and monitoring
of pipeline construction and later operation.

25.      Bank supervision missions have worked closely with CPSP to speed up the
procurement process. Equipment and services were and are being procured and
contracted. The CPSP launched bidding processes and signed contracts to procure
equipment and goods to enhance capacity of its field teams and coordination with other
institutions involved in monitoring construction of the pipeline. Contracts signed or being
signed include those related to: (i) development of the legal and regulatory framework;
(ii) planning studies of areas likely to be affected by construction activities, including the
sites of fixed facilities and major construction camps (zones at risk); (iii) monitoring of
implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP); (iv) supervision of
protection of cultural heritage; (v) establishment of an environmental information
management system; (vi) preparation of a NOSRP; (vii) acquisition of goods for newly-
established health centers along the route of the pipeline; and (viii) equipment and
computers for information management and communication. Some of these bidding
processes are already completed and services are expected to be furnished to the CPSP
during the coming months.

26.      Credit should be given to CPSP staff, who continued to implement their activities
in the field to monitor implementation of the 1999 EA/EMP, sometimes under difficult
conditions and without adequate equipment and/or appropriate support. They follow
quarterly work programs and generate information for the CPSP to prepare monthly and
quarterly reports that are sent on a regular basis to the Bank. The field staff of the CPSP
work in close coordination with COTCO's EMP monitors regarding all aspects of
EA/EMP monitoring, such as biophysical aspects at construction sites, including waste



                                               8

Cameroon                                                                    Management Response



management, soil erosion, and protection of water resources; socio-economic aspects,
with follow up on implementation of the Compensation Plan; and preparation of
community compensation, for which additional staff have been mobilized. Technical
training has been provided to the CPSP EMP monitors by COTCO.

27.     The health component of the CAPECE Project has advanced the least.
Mobilization of the Ministry of Health proved difficult in the beginning and the Bank
supervision team followed closely the joint effort of CPSP and the Ministry of Health to
better coordinate and implement actions. Links have been established with the Bank
financed HIV/AIDS program in Cameroon and a campaign to collect data along the
pipeline is underway in order to provide appropriate medical services and supplies
through the identified health centers. Also, the Ministry of Health and the CPSP
coordinated closely with COTCO to identify detailed needs for intervention from the
Ministry of Health, in particular in areas where population in-migration is the highest, as
well as priority needs for equipment in relevant health units. A specific focus was placed
on the Dompta informal settlement, which benefited from the establishment of a Health
Center. Finally, with CPSP assistance, a convention was signed to coordinate work on
HIV/AIDS between COTCO and the Ministry of Health. The health component of the
CAPECE Project shows that capacity building is a complex and time consuming
endeavor. However, efforts implemented thus far have proved to be very beneficial to
Cameroon.

28.     The establishment of the Foundation for Environment and Development in
Cameroon (FEDEC) as a consultation and financial mechanism to provide for the
biological diversity offset and implementation of the IPDP is an important aspect of
capacity building in Cameroon. This is an innovative mechanism that has proved to be
very effective in many parts of the world. It has the capacity to ensure that a dialogue is
maintained among all stakeholders to define the best ways to deal with the issues at stake.
That FEDEC had a slow start is partly due to the fact that it is a relatively unknown
mechanism in Cameroon and that the learning and adjustment process needed to be
completed before FEDEC could become the effective tool it is meant to be. FEDEC now
has a place in the institutional landscape for environmental management in Cameroon
and further actions are being taken and/or prepared to strengthen its activities.

29.     An international consultant will be contracted by end November 2002 to start a
comprehensive training program for all staff of CPSP and sectoral ministries in charge of
supervision and monitoring of implementation of the 1999 EA/EMP. This will be
extended to decentralized offices of the various ministries involved in monitoring of the
EMP. Staff of these offices would then build on the experience they obtained earlier on
the construction sites, from which they drew important lessons particularly as regards
safety, quality-control, compensation, and communication with affected people and
communities. These ministries and agencies are now consolidating their experience in
order to enhance the effectiveness of their intervention in the field.

30.     The preparation of the NOSRP also aims at developing and strengthening the
national capacity to deal with oil spills and contingency interventions beyond the Pipeline
Project itself. Cameroon has an active domestic petroleum production and transport



                                               9

Cameroon                                                                     Management Response



sector, apart from the pipeline, which calls for the development of such capacity. Oil spill
response in connection with the pipeline will also be covered by the COTCO-sponsored
ASOSRPs.

31.     Under the legal and regulatory component of the CAPECE Project, the GOC is
being assisted to prepare implementation decrees and Arrêtés for the national
environmental framework law (Law no. 96/12) and the pollution control law (Law no.
98/15). These decrees and Arrêtés are needed to establish national standards and
procedures and provide the parameters against which the environmental impact of the
Pipeline Project (and all other projects) may be measured. The CAPECE Project will also
support dissemination workshops for key stakeholders and training for Government staff,
including judges, and central and local government officials involved in environmental
monitoring and enforcement. In this way, the CAPECE Project will make a significant
contribution to the implementation of the National Environmental Management Plan,
going well beyond the limits of the petroleum sector. The contracts for both preparation
of the implementation decrees and Arrêtés, and training on the environmental framework
law and pollution control law were signed and are being implemented by the selected
consultants.

32.     Finally, capacity building activities have assisted both central and field staff of the
GOC to generate improved supervision and monitoring reports which contain important
information and have proven to be very useful. The content and quality of the monthly
and quarterly reports from the CPSP Permanent Secretariat to the Bank are improving
and equipment being acquired (computers and software) will allow CPSP to expand its
capacity to generate reports on Project implementation and on activities related to
monitoring of EMP implementation. Regular publication of the CPSP Newsletter, which
reports on pipeline construction, is an important and innovative tool to help develop
communication between CPSP and other Pipeline Project stakeholders and affected
communities. Bank staff supervising the Pipeline Project observed that the Newsletter
contains valuable information and is publicly available to interested parties.

33.     While acknowledging this progress, Management will continue its supervision
effort and maintain its dialogue with CPSP to ensure that before the end of calendar year
2002, all procurement processes and activities of the CAPECE Project are implemented
or under implementation. The Mid-Term Review of the CAPECE Project, expected by
February 2003, will be a critical step to move the CAPECE Project forward and upgrade
its results on the ground.


C.    PROTECTED AREAS

34.     The Requestors believe that the choice of the Campo-Ma'an Protected Area as an
offset for potential Pipeline Project-related loss of biodiversity in the Atlantic coastal
forest of Cameroon was inappropriate because the region was already a protected area
and has received support under a project financed by the Global Environment Facility
(GEF), effective since 1995 and still ongoing. Furthermore, they allege that protection of
the area is inadequate because of threats due to the existence of industrial activity in the
immediate proximity of the protected area. They claim that the Bank is not in compliance


                                              10

Cameroon                                                                     Management Response



with OD 4.01 on environmental assessment. In addition, they claim that OP 4.04 on
natural habitats has not been respected since action to manage the offsets has not been
launched because of the delays in establishing FEDEC. Management believes that the
Bank is in compliance with the requirements of OD 4.01 and OP 4.04.

35.     The National Park of Campo-Ma'an did not pre-date the Pipeline Project. Campo-
Ma'an was declared a National Park by Prime Ministerial Decree (No. 004) in January
2000. While an area called "Reserve de Faune de Campo-Ma'an" existed since 1932, this
area was geographically distinct from the current area of the National Park (see Map 2)
and was open to a range of land uses including hunting, logging and land conversion.
Under Law 94-001 and Decree 95/478, the Campo-Ma'an region, including the Campo
Reserve, the Ma'an Forest Reserve, and a substantial area of land without any prior legal
protection, was re-organized into a Unité Technique Opérationnelle (UTO) for the
purpose of integrated participatory land use planning under the GEF-funded Biodiversity
Conservation Project. This planning process resulted in the identification of a core area
within which significant biodiversity values remain. The Pipeline Project played a
catalytic role in obtaining for this area its current status as a National Park, which affords
the highest level of protection possible under Cameroonian law to over 264,000 hectares
of the best conserved forests in southwestern Cameroon. In addition, it mandates
compliance with special environmental provisions for over 419,000 hectares that
surround the Park.

36.     After Bank review of the draft 1997 EA, it was decided that residual biodiversity
losses in the Atlantic coastal forest and in the semi-deciduous forest of Cameroon would
require appropriate mitigation measures in the form of biodiversity offsets, in accordance
with OD 4.01 and OP 4.04. In preparing the EMP, the Pipeline Project sponsors
considered six potential sites for the Atlantic coastal forest offset (EMP, Cameroon
Portion, Volume 4, pp. 3-1 and 3-2). With the advice of biodiversity experts, the Campo-
Ma'an UTO was selected as the most appropriate location for an offset. Compared to all
existing coastal forests, which were inhabited, too fragmented, already converted to
industrial plantations, or too close to major cities like Douala, the area proposed under the
GEF project to be the core area of a future Campo-Ma'an Park was selected as the most
suitable site for an offset. Such a Park was described by experts as potentially unique in
harboring significant wildlife populations. Furthermore, it contained no permanent
settlements that would require resettlement. The area known as Mbam and Djerem, which
had no prior protection, was selected as the best site for an offset to compensate for
residual biodiversity loss in the semi-deciduous forest of Cameroon.

37.     The GOC agreed to the selection of the core area of Campo-Ma'an and Mbam and
Djerem as offsets, and supported this choice by promptly undertaking the legal process to
declare them as National Parks, including a public consultation process. In exchange for
an estimated loss of about ten square kilometers of forest, the offsets provide protection
for an area greater than 5,000 square kilometers.

38.     To assist in fulfilling its obligations under the EMP to ensure effective protection
and management of the National Parks, the GOC has placed additional staff in the field.
The CAPECE Project supports the development and deployment of this capacity both in



                                                11

Cameroon                                                                   Management Response



Campo-Ma'an and (after initial studies have determined the parameters of participatory
management) in Mbam and Djerem.

39.     The Campo-Ma'an component of the ongoing GEF project has continued to
finance detailed studies and participatory planning processes for the National Park. The
funds provided to FEDEC by the Consortium will be used to support initial park
management requirements, with the goal of protecting biodiversity. These funds will be
complemented by Government expenditures which would otherwise likely not have been
made in this area.

40.     Regarding the threats posed by industrial activities in the surrounding area, the
objective of participatory planning for the buffer zone was precisely to identify and
contain such threats by finding ways of meeting the socio-economic needs of the
population without threatening the biodiversity values of the National Park. Large-scale
plantations and agro-industries as well as logging and sawmills were in operation in the
communes of Campo and Ma'an well before the preparation of the GEF project. To
address these threats, the GEF project has developed a participatory framework for
managing the National Park and buffer zone complex, which would confine such land
uses to the more degraded zones where they are presently found. Threats from pre-
existing industrial activity were effectively analyzed and mitigation measures were
designed in partnership between all stakeholders to ensure long-term sustainability of the
newly established Campo-Ma'an National Park. Funds will be needed to support the
implementation of proposed income-generating activities for the population in the buffer
zone, to replace current activities which might pose threats to effective biodiversity
conservation in the National Park.

41.     A concern was raised by the IAG in its May 2002 Report about proceeding with
management planning for the two parks which had been selected as offsets in the absence
of a broader national policy on park management. The IAG also noted concerns raised
among people living around the Campo-Ma'an National Park by a recent Government
decision (taken in line with Bank suggestions) to refuse permission for the construction
of a sawmill at Ma'an (outside the National Park) on the grounds that such a sawmill
might generate threats to the environmental integrity of the Park.

42.     The GEF project was designed to assist the GOC in gaining control over a number
of uncoordinated initiatives sponsored by international and local NGOs in its parks and
protected areas. The GEF project was co-financed by several bilateral donors and
international NGOs, while the GEF financing was primarily directed to building capacity
within the GOC (specifically, the Wildlife Department in the Ministry of Environment
and Forests). The goal was to strengthen Government capacity and leadership on the
ground, to share best practices, and ultimately to assist the GOC in developing a more
participatory and effective approach to protected area management. Though the project
has encountered substantial difficulties and delays in execution, its objectives are now
close to being achieved. The Bank has also maintained a continuous and often
challenging dialogue with the GOC on the issue of forest management, again with the
aim of promoting a more effective and participatory approach that integrates social and




                                              12

Cameroon                                                                    Management Response



environmental concerns. This approach will be supported through the IDA-financed
Forest and Environment Project currently under preparation.

43.     The GOC has the prime responsibility to protect and manage the two new
National Parks established in early 2000. the Consortium has agreed to support selected
activities in the two parks as a mitigation measure for low level residual impacts to
biodiversity and natural habitats resulting from the construction and operation of the
pipeline in Cameroon. FEDEC was established to support implementation of this
mitigation measure.

44.     FEDEC was established on March 29, 2001, and recognized as a not-for-profit
institution (a condition of its operation) by Presidential Decree on November 16, 2001.
Management acknowledges that FEDEC started its activities very slowly. Supervision
missions insisted that such delays should be reduced in order to allow FEDEC to start its
activities and implement its duties under the offset program. After the last CAPECE
supervision mission in July 2002, financial resources have started to flow from the trustee
of FEDEC's funds to FEDEC's Board. In the meantime, however, FEDEC has: (i)
established its administrative unit and by-laws; (ii) selected organizations to implement
activities in the two parks, namely World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) for Campo-
Ma'an and the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) for Mbam and Djerem; (iii) selected
a Community Development Facilitator (CDF) to support implementation of the IPDP;
and (iv) approved three out of four priority projects to benefit indigenous peoples
affected by the pipeline. (See below under Section III.D. for more details on the
implementation of the IPDP).

45.     A joint meeting with the Ministry of Environment and Forests, the CPSP,
FEDEC, and COTCO will be held during the next CAPECE supervision mission
(November 2002) to review the work program of FEDEC for the next year (2003) and to
discuss relationships and responsibilities among the stakeholders for the implementation
of the offset program. It is expected that the Conventions between WWF and FEDEC for
Campo-Ma'an and between WCS and FEDEC for Mbam and Djerem will be signed
before the end of December 2002.


D.    BAKOLA

46.     The Requestors say that the Pipeline Project does not seem to have a strategy for
ensuring the participation of indigenous peoples (Bakola) during the design,
implementation, and assessment phases of the IPDP. They also claim that the process of
consultation has been inadequate, and that the question of access to land has not been
addressed. The Requestors allege that the Bakola believe they have suffered negative
effects from the Pipeline Project and have not yet been able to enjoy the advantages set
forth in the IPDP due to delays in the implementation of FEDEC's activities.

47.     The consultation process used in developing the IPDP is detailed in the IPDP,
pages 3-10 through 3-15. This shows that all Bakola settlements, hunting grounds, and
culturally significant sites in the Pipeline Project area were inventoried in order to avoid
and minimize disturbance to the Bakola community by appropriate routing of the pipeline



                                               13

Cameroon                                                                               Management Response



away from these areas. Some twenty-three Bakola camps were then determined to be
within two kilometers of the pipeline route and therefore likely to be affected by the
Pipeline Project.1 During Project preparation, COTCO's consultants, the Groupe d'Etude
des Populations Forestières Equatoriales (GEPFE), undertook 165 intensive field visits to
these settlements. In 1998, COTCO held a consultation meeting with the Bakola at Kribi.
Each camp was represented by two delegates. The consultation assisted COTCO in
preparing a draft IPDP to be used as a framework for a more participatory detailed
planning process guided by the CDF to be hired by FEDEC during the first year of
Pipeline Project implementation. As part of its review of the 1999 EA/EMP, Bank staff
determined that the consultation process used in preparing the IPDP, and the strategy for
promoting Bakola participation during its implementation, met Bank requirements.
FEDEC has hired the CDF (as of May 2002) as well as a Bakola facilitator. The
implementation of IPDP activities began in August 2002. Three priority activities are
currently being carried out: (i) provision of identity cards, (ii) a schooling program, and
(iii) a health program. The planned agricultural program will commence with the next
growing season.

48.      The strategy for ensuring greater participation by the Bakola in designing,
implementing, and assessing the IPDP is described in the IPDP (1999 EA/EMP,
Cameroon Portion, Volume 4, pp. 3-2 through 3-5). Basically, the strategy is to identify
projects for funding through continued consultation, with the aim of gradually increasing
the capacity of local people to design and implement project proposals in response to
their own identified needs. During the first year of FEDEC's work program, this process
would be led by the CDF with the involvement of community representatives who would
receive appropriate training. During the second year, the CDF would play the role of
facilitator to elicit proposals and support the execution of projects by community
members. In the third and subsequent years, the community representatives would take
on greater responsibility for project planning, execution and monitoring, with the CDF in
a consultative role. The objective is to transfer full responsibility for the management and
monitoring of the program to the communities involved by the end of Year 3. The
program is planned to continue for a period of twenty-eight years.

49.      Administrative delays were incurred in initiating FEDEC (see fuller discussion
under "Protected Areas" above). However, COTCO acted proactively in fast-tracking
preparatory activities in parallel so that work could commence quickly once FEDEC was
legally established in Cameroon. Since then, COTCO has maintained a permanent team,
including two anthropologists, to take care of Bakola issues. Apart from FEDEC,
COTCO's activities included consultation, diagnostic surveys, and support for immediate
health and education priorities, as well as other assistance to the Bakola, in response to
the needs and concerns they identified through the consultation process. Such support
includes the construction of boarding schools at Bidou and Ngoyang villages, distribution
of schoolbooks to Bakola students, and school supplies to the Ngoyang boarding school;
support for the implementation of an anti-tuberculosis program among the Bakola; and


1 Currently there are twenty-five such camps, including two joint Bakola/Bantu settlements. Eliciting the
participation of indigenous people in planning is complicated by the fact that they move freely among
settlements and hunting camps, forming and dissolving social groups with great frequency.



                                                    14

Cameroon                                                                     Management Response



creation of a special medical fund. In addition, COTCO plans to provide community
compensation valued at USD 40,000 in the form of housing improvements, as desired by
the Bakola.

50.     Regarding access to land, historically the Bakola have been a nomadic group of
forest inhabitants who have sustained their livelihoods through hunting and gathering
activities. More recently, they have also engaged in agricultural production (mainly
cassava cultivation) in the disturbed forest area along the Lolodorf Road. The Bakola
perceive land as territory, not as private property to be appropriated and owned. They
therefore have no ancestral domain claims like Bantu groups. The central goal of the
IPDP is to work with the Bakola to raise their standard of living and empower their
communities so that they can take their place as full citizens of Cameroon and establish
their position within the local customary land use system. Provision of identity cards is a
first key step in this process. Access to land for agriculture is a long-term issue which
must be resolved in the context of the customary tenure system and in ways which will
not exacerbate Bakola-Bantu relations.

51.     Temporary environmental disturbance due to construction noise was anticipated
in the 1999 EA/EMP. However, Bakola hunting areas are found two or three days' walk
away from the roadside settlements, i.e., well away from construction noise or other
impacts. Consultations with the Bakola indicated that any wildlife in the pipeline corridor
would return rapidly after pipeline construction was completed, with no lasting effect on
their hunting and gathering lifestyle. Regarding employment, COTCO and sub-contractor
statistics indicate that 34 Bakola (out of about 700 living in the Pipeline Project area, of
which only about 300 are of working age) have been employed on the construction sites.
The same priority has been given to the Bakola as to the Bantu living in villages along
the pipeline. Concerning fishing, environmental monitoring has not identified any
significant reduction in fish populations or fishing activities in the Pipeline Project area.

52.     Bank and ECMG staff are closely following progress on the IPDP. FEDEC
provides regular reporting on IPDP implementation and other relevant issues. Under the
CAPECE Project, the GOC is also about to undertake its own independent monitoring of
implementation of the IPDP.


E.    COMPENSATION

53.     The Cameroon Compensation Plan is presented in the 1999 EA/EMP (Cameroon
Portion, Volume 3). It is designed to comply with Cameroon legislation and to meet the
requirements of Bank policies and procedures. The Plan was reviewed and accepted by
the Bank as part of the EMP review process, prior to appraisal of the Pipeline Project. An
earlier version of the Plan dated June 1998 was distributed nationally and internationally
for comments, and extensive consultations on the draft Plan were held in the rural
communities likely to be affected by the Pipeline Project. The version incorporated in the
1999 EA/EMP reflects the results of these consultations.

54.     The basic principles of the Plan are the following:




                                              15

Cameroon                                                                               Management Response



· Displacement of people and loss of land are avoided where possible and minimized
    wherever avoidance is not possible;

· Compensation for losses is fair, equitable, and in accordance with local laws and
    culture;

· Compensation is timely provided so that people can rapidly re-establish their
    livelihoods;

· Compensation should not promote conflicts among the local population;

· Compensation due under Cameroonian law is paid by the GOC;2 and

· Supplemental compensation is paid by COTCO sufficient to meet the intent of the
    Bank directives.

55.       During the design stage, the pipeline, associated infrastructure, and fixed facilities
were sited in such a way as to avoid the need for any physical resettlement. However, the
Plan recognized that a very small number of households might be significantly3 impacted
by loss of land or structures and made special provisions to meet their needs. During the
Center Line Survey (CLS) of the pipeline corridor, conducted in 1998, about 4,500
individual plots in the easement were inventoried, representing some 2,700 individual
farmers. The consultation and outreach process implemented by COTCO during the CLS
is described in Section 4.5.2 of the Compensation Plan. Further consultation took place
during the public review of the EMP. Consultation continues through the implementation
of the compensation process, which is now nearly completed.

56.       The GOC's compensation process involves Verification and Valuation
Commissions which held meetings at each of the 238 villages where compensable
resources were identified during the CLS. These meetings, which were open to the
public, are described in Section 4.5.3 of the Compensation Plan. Land owners or users
were given the opportunity to confirm or contest the contents of the CLS inventory
sheets. In the event of a disagreement, the Commissions visited the land with the land
owner or user to verify the facts.

57.       GOC compensation is based on a fixed schedule of rates which, in most cases,
does not correspond to current market values. In addition, the GOC does not provide
compensation for common property resources such as trees, fish, and game found on
national land (most of the land affected by the Pipeline Project is national land).
COTCO's supplemental compensation program therefore provides for: (i) topping up the


2 This process of payment takes place because the land permanently acquired by the Pipeline Project passes
from the Domaine Rural (National Land) into the Domaine Privé de l'Etat (State Land). The State then
leases it to COTCO.
3 "Significant" was generally considered by Bank social scientists and other practitioners in the field to be
equivalent to permanent loss of 20-25 percent or more of total land, but was not numerically specified in
OD 4.30. Eventually, this generally applicable 20 percent threshold was enumerated in OP 4.12 (December
2001), note 17.



                                                    16

Cameroon                                                                   Management Response



individual compensation rates to reach market or replacement values; (ii) providing
compensation for crop losses due to temporary occupation of land during construction
(which is not eligible for compensation under Cameroon law); and (iii) providing
community compensation corresponding to the value of lost common property resources
and in recognition of the general disturbance caused by the Pipeline Project to
neighboring communities. Government compensation is provided in cash only, whereas
COTCO supplemental individual compensation is provided in cash or in kind according
to the choice of the recipient; community compensation is provided in kind (i.e. in the
form of community projects). The methodology for valuation of assets by COTCO is
described in detail in the Plan.

58.     It should be noted that COTCO's approach to the calculation of supplemental
compensation has evolved considerably over the Project implementation period. COTCO
no longer adheres strictly to the narrow principles laid down in the Plan, but has shown
flexibility in re-evaluating rates and entitlements in response to community input. At the
present time, over 4,000 households have been compensated for land and crop losses
according to the process described in the Plan. Only one household has lost a significant
share of its assets, and this household has been compensated according to the resettlement
provisions of the Plan. A few cases (approximately 27) remain outstanding, due mainly to
disputes or uncertainty (cases of inheritance) over who is actually entitled to receive
compensation.

59.     COTCO has calculated values for community compensation entitlements and has
undertaken a process, aided by several local NGOs, to discuss with communities the
alternatives available for in kind compensation. Recognizing that previous community
programs implemented by oil companies around the world have sometimes failed to
generate lasting benefits, COTCO is undertaking a dialogue with the communities to
ensure that they understand and accept ongoing responsibility for project operation and
maintenance. Once communities have made a decision, COTCO will contract for the
projects to be built and turned over to the communities.

60.     The grievance process for those who feel that compensation has been inadequate
is also outlined in the Plan (Section 6.6). With respect to Government compensation, the
Verification and Valuation Commissions note publicly all evidence offered, and make
every effort to reach a satisfactory compromise on the spot. If this is not possible, the
Ministry of Housing and Urban Development can make an executive decision. A
dissatisfied citizen may challenge this decision in the courts. With respect to COTCO
supplemental compensation, a complaint may be filed with the COTCO Designated
Representative. It will be evaluated by COTCO in consultation with local officials,
village chiefs and elders. All grievances and their resolutions are noted in COTCO's
regular reports to the CPSP. In practice, COTCO's Local Community Contacts (LCCs)
have played a key role in facilitating the registration of grievances and the mediation of
disputes involving community members. The CPSP Socio-Economic Monitors on the
ground also play an important role in assisting aggrieved persons and resolving local
conflicts.




                                              17

Cameroon                                                                     Management Response



61.     CPSP headquarters staff closely monitor the compensation process to ensure that
Cameroon law is respected. The ECMG monitors COTCO's compliance with the Plan,
including all applicable Bank policies. It has not identified any significant problems in
this area. The Bank supervision team also monitors this process, both on a day by day
basis from the Country Office, and with regular supervision missions involving
specialists from Washington. Management believes that implementation of the
Compensation Plan complies with Bank directives. The Bank and the GOC will follow
up on the uses of compensation and the maintenance or restoration of living standards
during the CAPECE Project Mid-Term Review (3Q03) and at the end of the CAPECE
Project (3Q06).


F.   INTENSIFIED SUPERVISION

62.     Several layers of supervision and monitoring, delineated at the time the Pipeline
Project was approved by the Board in June 2000, have been operational since Project
effectiveness. The IAG, an interdisciplinary panel of independent experts appointed in
February 2001 to advise the President of the Bank and the Governments of Cameroon
and Chad, has made three statutory missions to the Pipeline Project area (the last of
which took place in April 2002 for Cameroon and in June 2002 for Chad). The IAG is
complemented by the ECMG, which is responsible for providing an independent
assessment of compliance with the 1999 EA/EMP and for monitoring performance of
technical assistance in the CAPECE Project. The ECMG visited the Pipeline Project area
three times in 2002 (January, May and September) to assess the level of compliance with
the 1999 EA/EMP.

63.     IAG's and ECMG's reports have been released to the public. The IAG's May
2002 Report concluded that significant progress had been made on many fronts.
However, it remained concerned about the pace of institution building and urged all
parties to speed up Project activities in order to ensure that public institutions and society
would be able to fully assume their monitoring and management roles before first oil. A
subsequent CAPECE supervision mission has agreed with the GOC on a revised
implementation timetable in response to this recommendation. The ECMG has concluded
that ongoing Project activities are in compliance with the EMP and that the Project has so
far experienced no critical (Level III, at which no change can be made to the EMP
without prior approval of the Bank) non-compliance situations.

64.     The Bank strengthened its supervision team by appointing two senior coordinators
in charge of the cluster of oil-related projects in Chad and in Cameroon in March 2002.
One took up residence in Chad in April 2002. The second expert is ensuring the Projects'
coordination from headquarters and is visiting the field every six to eight weeks on
average. An operations specialist who has been carrying out day-to-day supervision and
monitoring activities in Cameroon since May 2001 supports these two experts from the
Bank's Country Office in Yaoundé.

65.     The Bank and IFC have also established a joint supervision program that is being
coordinated with specialists in IFC's Environment and Social Development Department.
The team was further strengthened in May 2002 to address specific issues highlighted in


                                              18

Cameroon                                                                   Management Response



the IAG's and ECMG's reports. Ten key issues were identified and specialists were
assigned to monitor these issues and advise their managers. A specialized supervision
team visited Cameroon in July and September to take stock of issues related to the IPDP
for the Bakola and the progress with environmental offsets (at the Campo-Ma'an and
Mbam and Djerem National Parks). The supervision efforts made by the Bank/IFC since
Board approval of the cluster of Projects represents more than 20 staff years, out of which
about 40 percent were devoted to Cameroon. Normal Bank supervision is also undertaken
by the team in charge of the CAPECE Project on a regular basis. The last supervision
missions took place in December 2001, March-April 2002, and June-July 2002; the next
mission is planned for November 11-22, 2002. Each of these supervision missions
produced an aide memoire jointly with the CPSP and follow up letters sent to the GOC to
highlight findings and recommendations.


G. LABOR RELATIONS

66.     Management believes that there is no safeguard policy compliance issue involved.
The 1999 EA/EMP deals appropriately with health and safety of workers employed for
the construction of the pipeline. Whenever a health or safety issue was raised, dialogue
between the Bank, COTCO and CPSP was followed by appropriate action.

67.     Relationships between COTCO, its sub-contractors on one side and Cameroonian
workers on the other side are governed by appropriate contracts concluded under the law
of Cameroon. The Agreement of Establishment of August 7, 1997 entered into between
the Republic of Cameroon and COTCO provides for COTCO to contract adequate staff
without any interference or intervention from the GOC. However, the same Agreement
obliges COTCO to contract local workers wherever and whenever feasible and to develop
a training program for them (this is a well established rule called "national preference" in
force in major international concession contracts).

68.     The IAG's May 2002 Report mentions that safety and security constitute a
priority for COTCO (the Report mentions "the Consortium") and that the number of
work accidents is decreasing mainly because of thorough training and monitoring. The
same Report mentions that "workers...spoke (with IAG) forcefully of their satisfaction
but also discontents and concerns vis-à-vis labor conditions, as well as their uncertain
future as Project employees" and that there were "doubts as to contract duration, payment
terms, training provided by the employers to workers." It is the law of Cameroon which
applies to these labor relations. However, the Bank encouraged COTCO and CPSP,
during the last supervision mission of the CAPECE Project in July 2002, to undertake a
study on the future of the workforce employed by COTCO and its contractors, after the
pipeline is built, with a view to suggesting options to provide further employment and
livelihood opportunities.

69.     The Bank has been informed about disputes between COTCO, its sub-contractors
and workers. The key issue is that of a difference of opinion on which labor law governs
the Pipeline Project. Pipeline construction activities have been interpreted by the Ministry
of Labor to be a civil works project (Decree No. 24 MTS, 27 May, 1969) and not a
petroleum sector project where wage rates are higher. All COTCO contracts with sub-


                                             19

Cameroon                                                                                       Management Response



contractors are in accordance with this law and have been endorsed by the Ministry of
Labor. Another issue relates to worker health and safety. The 1999 EA/EMP (Volume 2,
Cameroon Portion) details the applicable standards. COTCO has put in place a health and
safety program for workers, and by extension, for communities. Bank supervision teams
are monitoring closely the implementation of the program as well as relationships
between COTCO, it's sub-contractors and workers in view of ensuring completion of the
Pipeline Project in compliance with the laws of Cameroon and the 1999 EA/EMP to the
benefit of all stakeholders involved



                                    IV. MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE

70.         The actions already taken or to be taken by the Bank in response to the concerns
raised by the Requestors are summarized in Table 1 below. The Requestors' claims,
accompanied by Management's detailed responses, are provided in Annex 1.

                                         Table 1. Summary of Bank Activities
        Environmental Impacts ­ Management believes the 1999 EA/EMP for the Pipeline Project is in
        conformity with OD 4.01, the applicable Bank policy on environmental assessment. The potential
        impacts of the Project are identified and evaluated, and mitigation measures are fully described. An
        adaptive design process ensures continual improvement in response to feedback during project
        implementation. This process will remain applicable throughout the life of the Pipeline Project. Should
        changing circumstances require any change in the EMP itself, the Change Management Process
        described in the EMP will be put into effect.

        Insufficient Analysis of Alternatives ­ Management believes that the analysis of alternatives was
        carried out correctly, and that the Pipeline Project, in combination with the CAPECE Project, will bring
        net benefits to Cameroon.

        Cumulative Impacts - Management takes the position that the EA/EMP took into account the
        cumulative impacts as required by the OD 4.01. In general, given the footprint of the Pipeline Project,
        the cumulative impacts are expected to be below the threshold that would warrant further analysis.
        Relevant cumulative impacts were considered, and appropriate mitigation measures (e.g., the Induced
        Access Management Plan) were included in the EMP. The Bank supervision team will continue to
        monitor this concern directly and will coordinate with appropriate parties to address issues if they
        emerge.

 4.01   Baseline Studies - The "Handbook for Site-Specific Environmental Mitigation Actions" and the
     DO Environmental Alignment Sheets (EASs) link baseline data with Pipeline Project mitigation and
        management requirements. These tools will continue to be used to monitor implementation of the 1999
        EA/EMP in order to address linkages of the baseline situation to success or failure of mitigation
        measures.

        Greenhouse Gases ­ The 1999 EA/EMP evaluates the impact of the Pipeline Project in terms of the
        generation of greenhouse gases. No further mitigation is required.

        Oil Spills - The risk of oil spills is addressed by the General Oil Spill Response Plan (GOSRP) which
        was prepared and submitted to public review and consultation prior to Board presentation of the
        Pipeline Project. The four ASOSRPs are to be made public in country and at the Bank InfoShop 180
        days prior to first oil and will be subject to public review and consultation. A campaign of awareness
        raising and education will be conducted on oil spill risk and remedial measures in the areas covered by
        the ASOSRPs. The GOC is committed to developing a NOSRP under the CAPECE Project, which will
        also be submitted to public consultation and disclosure and will be adopted before first oil. The Bank is
        closely monitoring this process.

        Fishing Rights - The 1999 EA/EMP contains provisions to compensate for fishing harvest losses and
        gear damages/losses during both the construction and operational phases. Although Management
        believes that fishery losses, if any, will be minimal, Bank supervision will continue to follow up to ensure
        that any losses are appropriately compensated.




                                                             20

Cameroon                                                                                             Management Response



              Consultation - The Bank supervision team travels periodically to the field in order to ensure that
              Pipeline Project implementation, including consultation with the local population, is proceeding as
              planned. In addition, Bank staff hold regular meetings with local NGOs, at the initiative of either party.
              The Bank is also assisting the GOC and COTCO to improve communications strategies for more
              effective consultations and involvement of civil society in the Pipeline Project. The Bank will continue to
              monitor and support this process. In order to improve communications with local communities, a local
              communication plan is being prepared jointly by COTCO, the Permanent Secretariat of the CPSP and
              the Bank (see box on participation below).

              Water Pollution / Loss of Drinking Water ­ Management's response to individual and community
              claims in this area is provided in Annexes 1 and 2. In general, the Bank, the ECMG, and the CPSP will
              continue to monitor COTCO's activities to ensure that any negative effects on water supply are
              appropriately mitigated or compensated.

              Dust Pollution - The Bank has asked COTCO to follow up on this specific issue.

              Radioactive Effects of Welding - On the basis of ECMG reports and Bank supervision missions,
              Management believes that pipeline welding has been carried out in accordance with appropriate
              procedures that present no danger of radioactive effects on the surrounding population.

              Lack of Independent Review - Under the CAPECE Project, a Panel of Experts is to be contracted to
              assist CPSP in the monitoring and supervision of implementation of the EMP during the pipeline
              construction and operational phases. The process to contract the Panel has not yet been completed.
              Because the construction phase is well advanced, the CPSP has requested the Bank to agree on
              changes to the terms of reference for the Panel. This issue, which is still under discussion, will be
              addressed during the next supervision mission (November 2002). The Bank will request that a Panel be
              put in place to review the adequacy of environmental and social mitigation measures before Pipeline
              commissioning and during operations. In addition, Management remains committed to the continued
              work of the IAG.

              Institutional Capacity Building
              Capacity building needs of the Government of Cameroon were identified during Pipeline Project
              preparation, resulting in the design of the CAPECE Project. Though CAPECE had a slow start, its
              implementation has been accelerated with the support of intensified Bank supervision. While
              acknowledging this progress, Management will continue its supervision effort and maintain its dialogue
              with CPSP to ensure that before the end of calendar year 2002, all procurement processes and
              activities of the CAPECE Project are implemented or under implementation. The goal now is to ensure
              that full capacity in terms of both staff and equipment is in place to monitor and manage the effects of
              the Pipeline Project during its operational phase, which will start shortly after the CAPECE Mid-Term
              Review.

              Natural Habitat Replacement Area - Management believes that the choice of the core area of the
              Campo-Ma'an UTO as an offset for residual biodiversity loss in the Atlantic coastal forest of Cameroon
              was appropriate. The creation of the National Park and the funding for it provided by COTCO and the
              Government of Cameroon will help to ensure effective protection of an ecologically significant and
              sensitive area which would otherwise be subject to significant threats from surrounding agricultural and
              industrial activity. In exchange for an estimated loss of about ten square kilometers of forest, the offsets
              of Campo-Ma'an and Mbam and Djerem provide protection for an area greater than 5,000 square
              kilometers.

              Delays in Establishing FEDEC - FEDEC's work started slowly, but has gained momentum in recent
              months. Signature of the management contracts between WWF and FEDEC (for Campo-Ma'an) and
 4.04         FEDEC and WCS (for Mbam and Djerem) is expected before the end of December 2002. A joint
     PO       meeting with the Ministry of Environment and Forest, the CPSC, COTCO and FEDEC will be held
              during the November CAPECE supervision mission to review the work program of FEDEC for 2003.

              Bakola ­ Eliciting participation of indigenous people affected by the Pipeline Project (the Bakola of the
              Atlantic coastal forest) in IPDP planning, execution, and monitoring is a slow and sensitive process. It is
              described in the IPDP (Volume 4 of the Cameroon EMP) and is being implemented by the CDF hired
       4.20   by FEDEC. Three of four planned programs have started, one of which concerns provision of ID cards
           DO to the Bakola, which is a first step toward establishing entitlements to land. CPSP is contracting a local
              consultant to monitor implementation of the IPDP on behalf of the GOC. The progress of FEDEC is and
              will continue to be closely monitored by Bank supervision missions and the ECMG.




                                                                 21

Cameroon                                                                                                 Management Response



                     Negative Project Effects on the Bakola - Although FEDEC had a slow start, COTCO provided
                     support for health, education, and other assistance to the Bakola prior to FEDEC's involvement. Two
                     full time experienced anthropologists are part of the COTCO team and have been in constant contact
                     with Bakola settlements. COTCO also will provide USD 40,000 equivalent as community compensation
                     to be used, as the Bakola have requested, in improving their housing conditions. Management believes
                     that the Pipeline Project is in compliance with the requirements of OD 4.20 and will continue to follow
                     closely both the actions taken by COTCO to assist the Bakola and to compensate them for any
                     negative effects they may suffer in the course of pipeline construction, and the implementation of
                     FEDEC's work program, including the IPDP. See also Annex 1.

                     Involuntary Resettlement ­ Management believes that the Compensation Plan in the 1999 EA/EMP
                     meets and is being implemented in accordance with the requirements of OD 4.30. Although no
                     households in Cameroon have been physically resettled and only one household has lost a significant
                     portion of its assets to the Pipeline Project, over 4,000 households have been compensated for land
 4.30                and crop losses, with only 27 claims remaining unsettled. Bank missions and the ECMG are monitoring
     DO              this process and no situations of non-compliance have been identified. Monitoring will be continued.
                           Individual and community claims listed in the Request have been investigated by Bank staff. The
                     Management response to these claims is given in Annex 1 (for community claims) and in Annex 2 (for
                     claims made by individuals). Management believes that the Pipeline Project is in compliance with Bank
                     requirements.

                     Poverty Reduction - On the basis of Bank supervision missions, Management believes that the
                     Pipeline Project is in compliance with the requirements of OD 4.15 and that no structural
                     impoverishment has resulted or will result from the Project. Most of the land acquired will be returned to
                     the users after one growing season; in places this is already happening. Adequate compensation was
                     paid to cover crop losses. In particular cases, compensation payments may not have been
                     appropriately used to maintain household standards of living during this period. The Bank will request
                     COTCO and CPSP to follow up on use of compensation to ascertain that no permanent decline in living
                     standards takes place.
       4.15
           DO        Delays in Settlement of Compensation Disputes - Claims or contested cases of long duration have
                     been those concerning land ownership or inheritance. Some claims concern crops planted after the
                     pre-Project inventory was completed, which are not eligible for compensation. Out of about 4,000 cases
                     of individual compensation in Cameroon, only 27 remain unresolved at the present time.
                           In its broader policy dialogue with the GOC, the Bank seeks to help improve the quality and
                     efficiency of the legal system, in particular improved handling of compensation and resettlement issues.
                     Under the CAPECE Project, civil servants, judges, lawyers and other staff involved in implementation of
                     laws dealing with construction and operation of oil pipelines and environmental protection will receive
                     specific training, including training on resettlement and compensation issues.

                     Lack of Reporting - Bank supervision staff in the field and regular supervision missions from
                     Washington report regularly to Bank Management. These reports are not publicly available. However,
                     the ECMG quarterly reports and IAG reports are available to the public on the Bank's Pipeline Project
                     Website (http://www.worldbank.org/afr/ccproj/). Through all these reports, Management has been made

             13.05   aware of concerns about Project impacts, compensation procedures, and delays in the implementation
                  PO of the FEDEC work program, affecting both the biodiversity offsets and the IPDP. As outlined above,
                     the Bank has been continuously engaged in dialogue with COTCO and the GOC to make sure these
                     issues are addressed and to facilitate accelerated implementation. Project supervision was intensified
                     in March 2002, including deployment of field-based staff on a long-term basis, and this intensified
                     supervision will continue.




                                                                        22

Cameroon                                                                                      Management Response



       Lack of Public Participation - Regular consultations with project affected people have been held by
       COTCO and CPSP to discuss Project-related issues. These consultations are facilitated by COTCO's
       LCCs and CPSP's Socio-Economic Monitors. In spite of these efforts, there is consensus that
       communication with communities could be improved. A local communication plan is being prepared
       jointly by COTCO, the Permanent Secretariat of the CPSP and the Bank. Under the CAPECE Project,
       the CPSP is responsible for following up on social issues related to compensation, working together
       with the Ministry of Public Health to promote the protection of public health, and contracting with local
       consultants: to monitor the situation of indigenous people affected by the Pipeline Project; and to
       monitor, together with the Ministry of Culture, the implementation of the Cultural Heritage Plan. CPSP
       informs the public of its activities through publication of a "Lettre du CPSP." The Bank recognizes that
       CPSP's communications with civil society could be improved, and is working with CPSP on
       implementation of a strategy that would better facilitate public participation in Pipeline Project activities.
       More information on CPSP's activities, as reported by Bank supervision missions, is provided in Annex
       1.

       Lack of Response to Complaints - The Bank supervision team has responded to complaints that
       have been raised with them in the field regarding the Pipeline Project. The Bank Country Office in
       Yaoundé has been closely monitoring the Pipeline Project, including meeting with all stakeholders to
       identify any issues that may need corrective actions. COTCO also maintains a file of complaints and
       respective responses, available at their offices in Douala. In Washington, Bank Management has also
       responded to complaints addressed to it. Copies of correspondence annexed to the Request for
       Inspection do not appear to show that this correspondence was previously sent to the Bank.

       Labor Relations - Management has been informed about disputes between COTCO, its sub-
       contractors, and workers regarding the interpretation of some rules and choice of applicable laws.
       These disputes have to be solved in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations of Cameroon.
       The Ministry of Labor in Cameroon has determined that the collective agreements signed are
       appropriate. The Bank supervision team will follow up with COTCO and CPSP to ensure that health
 re    and safety requirements are carried out in accordance with applicable standards defined in the 1999
       EA/EMP. Based on supervision mission reports, Management believes that COTCO is in compliance
   Oth with the relevant provisions of the EMP.

       HIV/AIDS / Prostitution of Minors - Cameroon's national strategy to fight HIV/AIDS is supported by a
       USD 50 million IDA credit, Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project, which became effective in September 2001.
       The Bank has employed an international consultant in the Cameroon Country Office to support the
       GOC in implementation of this project. The CAPECE Project also includes a substantial health
       component intended to assist the Ministry of Health in meeting its responsibilities to protect the health
       of the communities surrounding the pipeline.
            Building Government capacity to address HIV/AIDS in the Pipeline Project area and elsewhere is a
       priority in the Bank country strategy and an important element of the CAPECE Project. The Bank will
       continue to monitor progress and provide support for intensified action against HIV/AIDS and other
       diseases in the Project area. The prostitution of minors is a serious concern which, as the IAG has
       noted, has legal and social protection as well as health dimensions. The Bank will continue to monitor
       and follow up on this issue in the context of its broader poverty reduction dialogue with Cameroon.



71.        The Pipeline Project and the CAPECE Project have been implemented in
Cameroon under exceptional and challenging circumstances. Although the combined
Projects will bring net benefits to Cameroon, the primary beneficiaries of the Pipeline
Project will be the people of Chad. Cameroon is participating in these Projects mainly out
of a sense of solidarity with Chad. However, Cameroon will receive revenues estimated
at about USD 550 million in nominal terms over the 25-year operating period of the
Pipeline Project. Other benefits arise from infrastructure improvements and employment
generation, as well as local procurement of goods and services. Properly used, the
revenues from the project could significantly benefit Cameroon's poor population.
Following Board approval of the Pipeline Project and the CAPECE Project, the timetable
for construction of the pipeline was accelerated, while the implementation schedule of
CAPECE was delayed. Management is aware of the potential problems caused by this



                                                          23

Cameroon                                                                   Management Response



combination of circumstances, and has responded through intensified supervision efforts
aimed at ensuring compliance with the EMP and accelerating the implementation of
capacity building activities.

72.     Management believes that the Bank has made every effort to apply its policies
and procedures and to pursue concretely its mission statement in the context of the
Pipeline Project and the CAPECE Project. In Management's view, the Bank has followed
the guidelines, policies and procedures applicable to the matters raised by the Request.
As a result, Management believes that the Requestors' rights or interests have not been,
or will not be, directly and adversely affected by a failure of the Bank to implement its
policies and procedures. Management remains committed to continue intensified
supervision and to promote a process of regular consultation and disclosure to assure the
continuing environmental and social soundness of the Projects during implementation.




                                             24

         Cameroon                                                                                Management Response




                                                      ANNEX 1
                                           CLAIMS AND RESPONSES


No. Claim/Issue                             OD /
                                           OP/ BP                                    Response:

    Environmental Impact
    Assessment

1.  EIA ­ Not in conformity with OD        4.01   The Pipeline Project, a Category "A" project, was processed in accordance
    4.01. The World Bank accepted an              with OD 4.01 and other relevant Bank policies and procedures, and an EA
    environmental impact study which              was prepared. The Bank cleared the 1999 EA/EMP, after intensive reviews
    was not in conformity with OD 4.01,           by legal, environmental, social development and other staff. The Bank found
    at least in respect of the following          the documents to be in compliance with its policies and procedures.
    points:                                            The 19-volume EA/EMP, in English and French, evaluates impacts and
    · OD 4.01 states that the                     describes mitigation measures in considerable detail, e.g., the Handbook for
        environmental impact study                Site-Specific Environmental Mitigation Actions. This package of
        must "foresee and evaluate the            environmental documentation was produced in collaboration between the
        potential negative and positive           sponsoring Consortium of oil companies and the two host Governments of
        impacts of the Pipeline Project in        Chad and Cameroon. The package describes avoidance measures, and
        terms which are as quantitative           specific mitigation and monitoring provisions to be undertaken by the
        as possible. It must identify             Consortium and the respective Governments. Provisions for compliance
        mitigation measures, and any              with the 1999 EA/EMP are set forth in the Legal Agreements. See
        potential negative impact which           Response No. 4 for additional information on mitigation measures.
        cannot be mitigated." (OD 4.01,                The Pipeline Project has employed an adaptive design process. The
        Annex B, paragraph 2.e.).                 1999 EA/EMP describes the technical details (see Volume 1, Cameroon
    · The Environmental Management                Portion). This process centers on an information feedback mechanism that
        Plan must "... describe - with            provides project planners with an ongoing flow of up-to-date information
        technical details - each                  throughout the design process. The Pipeline Project's environmental
        mitigation measure." (OD 4.01,            assessment and public consultation teams have been in continuous contact
        Annex C, paragraph 2).                    with the planners and engineers designing the Project. As a result of this
                                                  feedback mechanism, the Pipeline Project design has adopted many
                                                  improvements since environmental studies and public consultation first
                                                  began in 1993. The 1999 EA/EMP calls for this process to continue over the
                                                  anticipated 25-year life of the Pipeline Project.
                                                       In addition, a Change Management Process is in effect, also for the life
                                                  of the Project, for any changes to the 1999 EA/EMP resulting from
                                                  information gleaned from Project implementation.

2.  EIA - Insufficient analysis of         4.01   Management believes that the comprehensive analysis of alternatives
    alternatives. It has not taken                carried out during preparation of the 1999 EA/EMP is in compliance with OD
    account of future developments of             4.01 and that it has fully integrated environmental and social concerns, as
    the Pipeline Project, and has been            well as technical and economic ones.
    carried out solely from the point of               Compared to the 1997 EA initially submitted by the Consortium and the
    view of the companies promoting               Governments to the Bank and IFC, the analysis of alternatives in the 1999
    the Pipeline Project, and not from            EA/EMP resulted in changes to the Pipeline Project design, specifically to
    the point of view of society as a             minimize environmental and social impacts. Major changes were made in
    whole.                                        the route to avoid sensitive natural habitat, such as the Deng Deng Forest
                                                  and Mbéré Rift Valley, and indigenous groups, including the Bakola villages
                                                  (see Response No. 16 below). Many more route modifications are
                                                  mentioned in the 1999 EA/EMP (Supporting Documents, Volume 3, Table
                                                  5-1). The selected route has taken into account social and environmental
                                                  impacts, as well as economic and technical parameters.
                                                       The 1999 EA/EMP provided quantitative environmental data (e.g.,
                                                  length of the pipeline intersecting different habitat types, number of water
                                                  courses crossed, number of villages affected and the like) to compare
                                                  alternatives. The method adopted, i.e., avoiding or minimizing the costs of
                                                  environmental damage, to select the preferred alternatives for each
                                                  component and for the Pipeline Project as a whole, accorded environmental
                                                  and social values the highest significance.
                                                       Preferred alternatives were selected for: (i) oil field development (ii)




                                                            25

        Cameroon                                                                                  Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                            OD /
                                           OP/ BP                                     Response:

                                                  transportation infrastructure, (iii) pipeline corridors and (iv) marine terminal
                                                  locations, which then resulted in an overall preferred alternative that
                                                  minimized environmental and social adverse effects. Incremental
                                                  environmental and social mitigation costs of the selected alternative were
                                                  described in the Pipeline Project economic analysis (PAD, Annex 4, Part I).
                                                  Their impacts on the net present value (NPV) and internal rate of return
                                                  (IRR) of the country were assessed through a sensitivity analysis.
                                                       The analysis of alternatives is presented in the 1999 EA/EMP,
                                                  Supporting Documents, Volume 2. At a very early stage (1992) when the
                                                  broad corridor alternatives were first identified, the Consortium consulted
                                                  with selected international NGOs present in Cameroon and with selected
                                                  Government and donor agencies in scoping the first technical and
                                                  environmental studies on the ground. Thus, for example, Corridor A was
                                                  ruled out partly because of a potentially high impact on wildlife and partly
                                                  because of a potentially high negative impact on people in a densely
                                                  populated area. The public consultation process that was followed during
                                                  the preparation of the 1997 EA and the 1999 EA/EMP is described in
                                                  Chapter 9 of the EA Executive Summary and Update, and more fully
                                                  detailed in Volume 3 of the Supporting Documents. Specific information on
                                                  the consultation process for route selection is found in Chapter 10 of the
                                                  Alternatives Analysis. The various design alternatives were subjected to
                                                  public review and comment in the process of consultation on the 1999
                                                  EA/EMP. Many of the adjustments made in routing the pipeline through the
                                                  Atlantic coastal forest reflected the results of community consultations by
                                                  avoiding settlements and sacred sites, as well as by avoiding local areas of
                                                  high biodiversity value. The "no-project alternative" was evaluated for
                                                  Cameroon on the basis of the revenue, employment, education, health, and
                                                  environmental management benefits (including benefits for the Bakola
                                                  people) that would not accrue in the absence of the Pipeline Project.

3.  EIA - Cumulative impacts. The         4.01    Contrary to the Requestors' contention, the 1999 EA/EMP undertook and
    environmental impact study has not            incorporated an analysis of the cumulative and overall impacts of the
    undertaken an analysis of the                 Pipeline Project, and as a result is in accordance with OD 4.01. In general,
    cumulative and overall impacts of             the cumulative impacts of the Pipeline Project are expected to be below the
    the Pipeline Project. For example, it         threshold that would warrant further analysis or a "formal" cumulative impact
    has not taken sufficient account of           assessment. The Pipeline Project will leave only a small footprint in
    the operations for exploiting oil in          Cameroon in the form of two pumping stations and one pressure reduction
    the Ebomé region (Kribi), and no              station occupying a few hectares of land. Annual crops and grazing will be
    study of the alternatives has                 permitted on the fifteen-meter strip above the buried pipeline. Specific
    analyzed the possible benefits of             consideration was given to cumulative impacts on natural habitat and on
    developing tourism in Kribi.                  tourism and fisheries in the Kribi area, including the marine terminal. At this
                                                  stage, Management is not aware of any other cumulative impacts that
                                                  require analysis.
                                                       To support the cumulative impact analysis, induced access
                                                  management controls were considered necessary where the Cameroon
                                                  Transportation System's land easement passed through certain natural
                                                  habitat areas in which existing vehicular access is limited or did not exist
                                                  and where biological resources are relatively abundant (1999 EA/EMP,
                                                  Induced Access Management Plan, Cameroon Portion, Volume 1, Appendix
                                                  D). The creation of such additional access by the Pipeline Project could lead
                                                  to indirect impacts associated with secondary growth of settlement and
                                                  infrastructure, increased commercial timber harvesting and increased
                                                  hunting of bushmeat. Three areas along the pipeline route in Cameroon
                                                  were identified as requiring induced access management control during the
                                                  construction phase: the plateau above the Mbéré Rift Valley between
                                                  Ouantounou and Mayo Dabi; the Pangar River to Lom River area; and the
                                                  area between Bélabo and Nanga Eboko.
                                                       Regarding impacts in the Kribi area, the location for the marine terminal
                                                  took into account cumulative impacts. The analysis of alternatives resulted
                                                  in the selection of the area south of Kribi for the following reasons:




                                                            26

         Cameroon                                                                                 Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                              OD /
                                            OP/ BP                                    Response:

                                                   ·    It has less population and fewer houses, hotels and other businesses;
                                                   ·    There is already offshore oil production at the Ebomé offshore oil field,
                                                        and an installed production platform with FSO;
                                                   ·    The selected location is consistent with the Kribi Development Plan,
                                                        which also includes plans for a deepwater port in this area to export
                                                        mining products in the future;
                                                   ·    In contrast, the area north of Kribi is densely populated, designated for
                                                        continued tourism and a marine terminal would not be consistent with
                                                        the Kribi Development Plan;
                                                   ·    In the north, the distance to the 30 meter water depth is twenty-five
                                                        kilometers farther offshore than south of Kribi; and
                                                   ·    The marine terminal would have had to be located twenty-five
                                                        kilometers to the north of Kribi.
                                                        Cumulative impacts of the Chad Cameroon Oil Pipeline Marine
                                                   Terminal and the Ebomé Marine Terminal together were considered low.
                                                   During the preparation missions no traces of oil, other than oil traces
                                                   identified on beaches worldwide, were identified on the beaches south or
                                                   north of Kribi. The FSO itself will have very little impact on the surrounding
                                                   marine environment. The risk of an oil spill from both installations at the
                                                   same time is considered as statistically very unlikely. Other cumulative
                                                   impacts were also considered low. Further consideration of cumulative
                                                   impacts is addressed in Section III.A.

4.  EIA - Baseline studies. The             4.01   Management believes that the environmental baseline studies in the 1999
    baseline studies have not been                 EA/EMP were adequate to evaluate potential impacts of the Pipeline Project
    adequate, limiting the possibilities of        and to determine relevant mitigation measures.
    identifying all the potential impacts               Baseline data are presented in the 1997 EA, in the supporting
    of the Pipeline Project and therefore          documents of the 1999 EA/EMP (e.g., Volume 5 of Supporting Documents)
    the relevance and scope of                     and in reference documents cited therein. Identified data gaps in the 1997
    mitigation measures. The absence               EA were filled in the 1999 documents. Additional baseline data were
    of baseline studies severely limits            collected subsequently in specific areas, for instance the Deng Deng forest
    the opportunities for follow-up of the         and the Mbéré Rift Valley and for the Bakola villages. Data collection, as
    real impacts of the Pipeline Project.          well as identification of any new data requirements, is ongoing, as part of
                                                   ECMG monitoring and under the Change Management Process described
                                                   in Response No. 1.
                                                        The 1999 EA/EMP makes note of innovative tools to link baseline data
                                                   collection, assessment of Pipeline Project impacts, and the application of
                                                   specific mitigation and management actions on the ground. The "Handbook
                                                   for Site-Specific Environmental Mitigation Actions" and the EASs are the
                                                   instruments linking sensitive and special interest habitats with mitigation and
                                                   management requirements. The 1999 EA/EMP (Cameroon Portion, Volume
                                                   1, page 7-3) spells out this linkage. "In addition to allowing for a site-specific
                                                   depiction of important biological resource information, these EASs also
                                                   function as a tool for highlighting the locations along the Cameroon
                                                   Transportation System where site-specific environmental management
                                                   requirements are to be implemented prior to, during, and/or after
                                                   construction of the pipeline."
                                                        Baseline information in the EASs, mapped to a scale of 1:10,000,
                                                   consists of vegetation/land classifications, villages/settlements, vegetation
                                                   and wildlife resources. Mitigation and management resources comprise
                                                   vegetation and wildlife protection measures, monitoring and surveys,
                                                   fisheries protection measures, induced access management measures,
                                                   erosion and sediment control and reclamation measures. The
                                                   environmental management requirements appearing in the EASs have been
                                                   designed to reduce construction and operations-related impacts to
                                                   acceptable levels. The baseline data, potential impacts, and management
                                                   requirements are coded on the EASs. The codes are summarized in tabular
                                                   format by pipeline kilometer post in an accompanying document referred to
                                                   as the Environmental Line List (1999 EA/EMP Supporting Documents




                                                             27

         Cameroon                                                                                Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                          OD /
                                         OP/ BP                                     Response:

                                                Volume 6). Instructions on implementation are detailed in the "Handbook."
                                                      Demonstration of the utility of this tool is occurring on the ground where
                                                it is being routinely used to accomplish the objectives of OD 4.01, Annex C,
                                                para. 2. This tool will continue to be used to monitor implementation of the
                                                1999 EA/EMP in order to address linkages of the baseline situation to
                                                success or failure of mitigation measures.

5.  EIA ­ Greenhouse gases. It has      4.01    Global issues, specifically global warming, are addressed in OD 4.01, para.
    not evaluated the impact of                 11. OD 4.01 also notes that the "Bank encourages such issues be
    combustion of oil exploited in the          considered in EA where relevant and feasible." In accordance with OP
    Pipeline Project on climate change.         10.04, Economic Evaluation of Investment Opportunities (para. 8), "global
                                                externalities are fully assessed (to the extent tools are available) as part of
                                                the environment assessment process and taken into account in project
                                                design and selection." Therefore, in accordance with Bank policies and
                                                procedures, a greenhouse gas emissions study was conducted by Dames &
                                                Moore, the Project's primary environmental consultant, as part of EA/EMP
                                                preparation (Dames & Moore, 1998).
                                                      The Pipeline Project and the oil it produces will lead to emissions of two
                                                greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide and methane. The study estimated that
                                                emissions from Pipeline Project facilities and operations will be less than
                                                half the amount that would be expected from a 500 MW natural gas-fired
                                                generating plant. The study also includes an estimate of emissions as a
                                                result of transporting, processing and consuming the extracted oil once it
                                                reaches world markets. Approximately 0.0055 million metric tons of
                                                methane and 10.95 million tons of carbon dioxide will be generated
                                                annually. This represents 0.15 percent of the total global annual carbon
                                                emissions (1999 EA/EMP Executive Summary and Update, page 7-27).

6.  EIA - Oil spills. The potential     4.01    The risk of oil spills was raised as a major concern during public
    impacts of possible oil accidents           consultation conducted for the 1997 EA and the 1999 EA/EMP. The pipeline
    have not been analyzed.                     has been designed following international industrial practice, in order to
    Preparation of the emergency plan           reduce the risk of oil spills to an absolute minimum. Oil Spill Response
    in the event of an oil leak was             Plans will conform to applicable international standards and codes as well
    conducted without the slightest             as the Operations Integrity Management System's standards and guidelines
    public consultation.                        referred to and defined in the 1999 EA/EMP.
                                                      A Preliminary Oil Spill Response Plan was included in the 1999
                                                EA/EMP. Subsequently, the Consortium prepared a GOSRP, the draft of
                                                which was reviewed by the Bank and also included as part of the 1999
                                                EA/EMP. It was disclosed in Cameroon and at the Bank's InfoShop on
                                                October 15, 1999. The GOSRP in Cameroon involves: (i) four ASOSRPs
                                                covering ecologically significant portions of the pipeline from the borders
                                                between Chad and Cameroon to the marine offloading facility (eleven
                                                kilometers offshore from Cameroon); and (ii) a NOSRP prepared by the
                                                GOC.
                                                      COTCO is in the process of developing the four ASOSRPs, three for
                                                areas onshore, and one for the offshore facility. Bank staff have reviewed
                                                and discussed terms of reference with COTCO and a consultant has been
                                                selected. The 1999 EA/EMP provides that the ASOSRPs are to be ready six
                                                months (180 days) before first oil. COTCO agreed with IFC and the private
                                                lenders that the draft ASOSRPs would be made public in country and at the
                                                Bank InfoShop 180 days prior to first oil and would be subject to public
                                                consultation. The agreed terms of reference for these ASOSRPs include
                                                requirements for disclosure and public consultation. The final ASOSRPs
                                                must be delivered to the Bank ninety days before first oil. ASOSRPs shall
                                                be verified by an independent expert.
                                                      The GOC is committed to developing a NOSRP under the CAPECE
                                                Project. A consultant has been selected and is expected to start the
                                                preparation of the NOSRP before end October 2002. The NOSRP will
                                                describe the activities that the GOC will undertake to comply with its
                                                commitments The GOC has agreed that the NOSRP should have a




                                                           28

         Cameroon                                                                                Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                            OD /
                                          OP/ BP                                     Response:

                                                 broader scope than the Pipeline Project, and should cover the whole
                                                 petroleum sector under its jurisdiction. The NOSRP will be submitted to
                                                 public consultation and disclosure and will be adopted before first oil. Like
                                                 the ASOSRPs and within the same time frame, the NOSRP will be subject
                                                 to independent expert verification, disclosure in country and at the Bank
                                                 InfoShop, and review by the Bank.
                                                      During the review period, consultations will be held with civil society
                                                 and affected stakeholders, as well as a campaign of awareness raising and
                                                 education on oil spill risk and remedial measures in the areas covered by
                                                 the ASOSRPs.

7.  EIA - Fishing rights. The rights of   4.01   The 1999 EA/EMP documentation covers impacts to inland fisheries in
    the fishing communities, as well as          rivers and marine fisheries in the Kribi area. River fisheries are important
    the Pipeline Project's impact on             locally for subsistence, while marine fisheries have a small-scale
    fishing in the region, do not seem to        commercial value.
    have been adequately taken into                   During pipeline construction, the only areas of the rivers and their
    account by the environmental                 banks that will have restricted access are the immediate work areas, to
    impact study.                                protect the safety of non-Project personnel. While booms are routinely
                                                 deployed across rivers in the active construction area, the Pipeline Project
                                                 maintains personnel responsible for opening the booms when necessary to
                                                 permit the passage of local users. The 1999 EA/EMP also restricts fishing
                                                 by Project workers during the construction and operational phases of the
                                                 Pipeline Project (Cameroon Portion, Volume 1, Chapter 2, Socio-Economic
                                                 Topic No. 9, Fishing Resources). During the operational phase of the
                                                 Pipeline Project there are no restrictions on freshwater fishing rights.
                                                      With respect to marine fisheries, during construction of the marine
                                                 pipeline and FSO, fishing access will be restricted in the immediate
                                                 construction sites for security reasons. During the operational phase, all
                                                 fishing will be restricted in the 1-kilometer exclusion zone centered on the
                                                 FSO, which will be located eleven kilometers offshore. There is currently no
                                                 artisanal fishing in this area and trawling is limited. Artisanal fishing using
                                                 small nets / lines will be permitted in the marine pipeline corridor, which
                                                 extends from where the pipeline enters the sea up to the FSO exclusion
                                                 zone. Trawling will not be permitted within a 1-kilometer wide rectangle
                                                 centered on the pipeline axis (i.e., 500 meter on each side of the pipeline).
                                                 This area will be demarcated by buoys. A public information and education
                                                 program about the location and implications of the marine exclusion zone is
                                                 expected to start in November 2002 and will be repeated in January 2003,
                                                 just before the start of marine terminal construction.
                                                      The 1999 EA/EMP contains provisions to compensate for fishing
                                                 harvest losses and gear damages/losses during both the construction and
                                                 operational phases to mitigate disruption of fresh and saltwater fishing and
                                                 fishing harvests (Cameroon Portion, Volume 1, Chapter 2, Socio-Economic
                                                 Topic No. 9, Fishing Resources).
                                                      Freshwater and marine fisheries are described and impacts are
                                                 evaluated in the 1997 EA, Cameroon Portion (Section 6.2.10, Fishing; 6.4.5
                                                 Marine Biology; and Appendix B, Sections 7.3.4, Impacts on Freshwater
                                                 Aquatic Resources, and 7.4, Marine Environment, 8.3.3, Aquatic Resources
                                                 and 8.4, Marine Environment). These sections conclude that with
                                                 appropriate mitigation measures, construction and operation impacts will not
                                                 be significant. Significant impacts would only occur as a consequence of a
                                                 major oil spill. Mainline valves are being installed near each side of all major
                                                 river crossings and oil spill response equipment will be installed at sensitive
                                                 sites to limit the impacts of an eventual oil spill. A specific ASOSRP is being
                                                 prepared for the offshore facility. See also Response 6 for additional
                                                 information on oil spills.
                                                      The 1999 EA/EMP contains additional information collected in 1998 on
                                                 freshwater fish, avifauna, herptofauna and vegetation (Supporting
                                                 Documents, Cameroon Biological Studies, Volume 5). Fish species
                                                 composition and abundance were analyzed Marine fishery field




                                                            29

        Cameroon                                                                                 Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                            OD /
                                          OP/ BP                                    Response:

                                                 investigations were carried out for the shallow water area near Kribi and for
                                                 the deeper water area (1999 EA/EMP Executive Summary and Update,
                                                 page 6-23). Fishing activity in the Kribi area is mostly subsistence and
                                                 small-scale commercial fishing with canoes. Impacts as a result of
                                                 increased turbidity and blasting could occur during construction, but are
                                                 expected to be limited, because the pipeline will only be buried from the
                                                 beach out to a water depth of 5.9 meters. The remainder of the pipeline up
                                                 to the FSO will not be buried, which causes less disruption to the sea
                                                 bottom.
                                                      For freshwater body crossings, the 1999 EA/EMP specifies that
                                                 adequate flows must be maintained to protect aquatic life, provide for all
                                                 water body uses and for downstream withdrawals of water by existing users
                                                 (Cameroon Portion, Volume 2, Environmental Impact Mitigation, CCS 21-
                                                 20-108, Section 9.4.1). Section 9.4.3 specifies temporary erosion and
                                                 sediment control procedures. Sensitive freshwater fishing areas are
                                                 identified on the EASs, as are river crossings, along with site-specific
                                                 mitigation measures. COTCO and Contractor personnel monitor the time
                                                 that construction activities impact rivers and confirm the presence and
                                                 effectiveness of sediment control measures, presence of equipment to
                                                 protect against inadvertent fuel spills, compliance with policies preventing
                                                 Project employees from fishing or harvesting natural resources found in the
                                                 rivers and other methods of water resource protection. Turbidity
                                                 measurements are taken at upstream and downstream points during each
                                                 activity that has potential to impact water quality. Monitoring reports indicate
                                                 that prior to blasting, villages are informed of potential impacts to the
                                                 fisheries resource, paddles are used to frighten the fish away, and when fish
                                                 are killed, the fish are distributed to the local population.

8.  Consultation. Consultation with      4.01    The consultation process that has been followed to date is in compliance
    and the provision of information to          with applicable Bank policies and procedures. The information and
    the populations affected by the oil          consultation process followed during Pipeline Project preparation is
    pipeline has not been adequate. It           documented in the 1999 EA/EMP, Supporting Documents, Volume 3.
    has led to a failure on the part of          Highlights in Cameroon include:
    these populations to be aware of the         ·    Reading rooms were open in seventeen locations in June 1999. In
    mechanisms established in the                     these reading rooms, the general public was able to consult the 19-
    Pipeline Project for their benefit                volume EA/EMP and to ask questions of COTCO representatives;
    (mechanisms for settling                     ·    More than 400 public meetings were held between 1997 and 1999, of
    compensation disputes, for                        which 111 were in the villages of affected people; and
    example); Paragraph 19 of OD 4.01            ·    The Groupe de Concertation et d'Action (coordination group of
    on environmental impact studies,                  Cameroonian NGOs for the Pipeline Project) organized a seminar for
    which states that the views of local              stakeholders in August 1998 in Cameroon. The resulting reports
    NGOs and affected populations                     provided advice and insight on how Project preparation proceeded on
    must be fully taken into account in               the ground, how it was perceived and ways to strengthen Project
    the design and implementation                     design and implementation.
    phases of the Pipeline Project, has          Feedback from these meetings and from the reading rooms was fully taken
    not been respected.                          into account in designing the Pipeline Project and its 1999 EA/EMP. In
                                                 addition,
                                                 ·    Nine national NGOs participated in a survey among the concerned
                                                      populations in order to develop a catalogue of options for in kind
                                                      compensation;
                                                 ·    A local NGO, Service d'Appui aux Initiatives Locales de
                                                      Développement (SAILD) disseminated information concerning
                                                      compensation rates in its newspaper "La Voix du Paysan;" and
                                                 ·    Representatives of Cameroon NGOs were invited to Washington to
                                                      discuss the Pipeline Project with Bank staff prior to negotiations.
                                                      During the implementation phase, continuous contact and consultation
                                                 is assured along the pipeline route in Cameroon through the work of
                                                 COTCO's nine LCCs, each of whom has an assigned zone of responsibility.
                                                 The CPSP also has two socio-economists and three environmentalists in




                                                           30

         Cameroon                                                                              Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                           OD /
                                         OP/ BP                                    Response:

                                                the field who provide continuous monitoring along the pipeline route. These
                                                COTCO and CPSP staff are responsible for maintaining a permanent link
                                                with the local people and administrative authorities. Monthly reports on their
                                                activities are provided to the Bank.
                                                      The mechanisms for settling compensation disputes are detailed in the
                                                1999 EA/EMP (Cameroon Portion, Volume 3, pages 6-12 through 6-15).
                                                This report is publicly available. The procedures spell out the role of the
                                                LCCs in disseminating information and facilitating the resolution of
                                                grievances. The grievance procedure is more fully described in Section III.E
                                                      The Bank supervision team travels periodically to the field in order to
                                                ensure that Pipeline Project implementation, including consultation with the
                                                local population, is proceeding as planned. In addition, Bank staff hold
                                                regular meetings with local NGOs, at the initiative of either party. Local
                                                NGOs have also been assisted by COTCO in undertaking their own
                                                monitoring efforts. The IAG, in its May 2002 Report, noted with regard to
                                                communication that "real progress has been made but further efforts will be
                                                necessary in order to establish true communications between the parties
                                                involved."

9.  Water pollution/loss of drinking     4.01   The 1999 EA/EMP has clear procedures to be followed with respect to
    water. All along the oil pipeline,          stream crossings in order not to impair water quality nor deny users access
    from north to south, sources of             to water supplies. Specific provisions are given in Volume 1, Biophysical
    drinking water have been polluted           Topics: No.6 (Loss of groundwater recharge areas); No. 7 (River/stream
    without the Consortium providing            flow disruption) and No. 8(Stream bed and bank disturbances).
    any of the solutions envisaged in                 The baseline study, which included the Bakola settlements, envisaged
    the Environmental Management                potential impacts to sources of drinking water and pollution. Appropriate
    Plan.                                       mitigation was implemented. ECMG reports have documented instances of
         For the Bakola settlements,            water supply or pollution problems and appropriate action has been taken.
    drying up of sources of drinking                  The 1999 EA/EMP provides that if drinking water supplies are
    water and pollution of the rivers           negatively impacted by the construction or operation of the pipeline,
    which crisscross the various                COTCO would furnish the impacted communities with an alternative supply
    settlements were not envisaged in           of drinking water. The June 2002 ECMG report (page 31) on April-May
    the impact study. No mitigation             monitoring states: "The extraction of water from the surface water regime
    measures were provided to deal              appears to be conducted consistent with Pipeline Project EMP
    with these negative impacts. The            requirements, including the monitoring of turbidity. Turbidity measurements
    same is true for drying up of               are also made where construction activities take place next to rivers.
    drinking water sources and                  Additional significant incidents related to the impact of village water supplies
    alteration in the river flow for            with turbid water have reportedly not occurred since the last visit and the
    Mpango village.                             EMP monitors interviewed at the river crossings visited were able to present
                                                evidence of water quality testing."
                                                      With reference to the specific claims at Mpango, COTCO provided a
                                                drilled well for the village to assure an adequate and safe drinking water
                                                supply. With respect to alterations in the river flow for Mpango village
                                                (Pembo River), construction of the pipeline necessitated a river crossing.
                                                The sub-contractor built an embankment from an existing road across the
                                                river. This embankment did not interfere with the natural flow of the Pembo
                                                River to three culverts under the existing road. Any reduced flow may have
                                                been caused by natural conditions or the fill the property owner had sub-
                                                contractors dump along most of the length of his existing footbridge. This
                                                situation was not due to pipeline construction activities.
                                                      See Annex 2 for further information on individual claims.

10. Dust pollution. At least one         4.01   The Bank / COTCO are not aware of this issue. However, construction near
    inhabitant from the Nkongzok area           and through Nkongzok took place during the rainy season, when free
    attributes six months of                    standing water, not dust, was the main characteristic at most construction
    hospitalization for pulmonary               sites. The April-May 2002 monitoring by the ECMG (June 2002 Report)
    problems to dust pollution from             notes that "in Cameroon, the surfacing of roads through villages with double
    Project construction.                       bitumen surface treatment (DBST) has substantially reduced the problem of
                                                traffic induced dust, which also improves safety."
                                                      The Bank has asked COTCO to follow up on this specific issue.




                                                           31

         Cameroon                                                                             Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                           OD /
                                         OP/ BP                                    Response:

11. Radioactive effects of welding.      4.01   X-Rays are standard industry practice in testing pipe weld integrity. Risk to
    One family living within pipeline           the public from these X-Rays is negligible as public access is not permitted
    route at Mpango notes at least three        at the site of such activity.
    months exposure to radioactive
    effects of pipe welding.

12. Lack of independent review. The      4.01   In accordance with OD 4.01 (para. 13), the Bank advised the GOC of the
    preparation of the environmental            need to contract an Independent Panel of Experts (IPE) to assist in the
    impact study did not respect the            review of the EA and advise the GOC on environmental issues related to
    requirements of independence in             pipeline construction and operation. To staff an IPE, the GOC retained a
    paragraph 13 of OD 4.01, which              Canadian-based firm, composed of a Canadian environmental specialist, an
    recommends in the case of large             American health specialist and a French socio-economist. Contractual
    projects the recruitment of an              difficulties surfaced and impaired the relationship between the IPE and the
    independent panel.                          GOC. The contract was not renewed after the first year. This termination of
                                                the contractual arrangements between the GOC and IPE meant that the IPE
                                                could not fully complete its work and that compliance with OD 4.01 para. 13
                                                was partial.
                                                     During its year of work, the IPE had meetings with Government officials
                                                in charge of the Pipeline Project, Bank staff, the Consortium and
                                                consultants in charge of EA preparation. The IPE reviewed and commented
                                                on the 1996 draft EA submitted to the Bank by the Consortium, the revision
                                                of which became the 1997 EA. The IPE's comments were submitted in
                                                matrix format to the Consortium and the GOC and forwarded to the Bank for
                                                information and comment. The IPE also produced a Summary Note on the
                                                Public Consultation Process in Cameroon (April 1997) and advised on
                                                follow up actions. These comments made an important contribution to the
                                                Bank's review of the 1997 Draft EA, resulting in changes in Pipeline Project
                                                design which are reflected in the 1999 EA/EMP documentation. The IPE's
                                                recommendations including rerouting of the pipeline around the ecologically
                                                sensitive Mbéré Valley, which was consistent with staff's own
                                                recommendation to do so after their site visit in 1998. The IPE later drew the
                                                Bank's attention to the need for intensified action on HIV/AIDS, in addition
                                                to planned actions by COTCO as described in the 1999 EA/EMP. The Bank
                                                followed up by fostering closer links between the health programs of the
                                                CPSP and Cameroon's national programs to fight HIV/AIDS (see also
                                                Response No. 26 below).
                                                     The IAG, established in February 2001 to advise the President of the
                                                Bank and the Governments of Chad and Cameroon, has helped to fill the
                                                gap during Pipeline Project supervision that was left by the absence of the
                                                IPE. The ECMG is responsible for providing an independent assessment of
                                                compliance with the 1999 EA/EMP and for monitoring performance of
                                                technical assistance in the CAPECE Project. Both the ECMG and IAG
                                                regularly advise the GOC and the Bank on the environmental and social
                                                aspects of Pipeline Project implementation. The IAG has identified problems
                                                and suggested solutions for consideration by the Bank and the GOC. The
                                                ECMG has visited the Pipeline Project on a quarterly basis since the
                                                beginning of construction. Reports of both the ECMG and the IAG are
                                                publicly available.
                                                     Under the CAPECE Project, a Panel of Experts will be contracted to
                                                assist CPSP in the monitoring and supervision of implementation of the
                                                EMP during the pipeline construction and early operational phases. The
                                                process to contract the Panel has not yet been completed. Because the
                                                construction phase is well advanced, the CPSP has requested the Bank to
                                                agree on changes to the terms of reference for the Panel. This issue, which
                                                is still under discussion, will be addressed during the next supervision
                                                mission. The Bank will request of the CPSP and the GOC that a Panel
                                                review the adequacy of environmental and social mitigation measures
                                                before Pipeline commissioning and during operations.

13. Institutional capacity-building      4.01   In accordance with OD 4 01 the CAPECE Project was put in place to




                                                           32

         Cameroon                                                                                Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                             OD /
                                           OP/ BP                                    Response:

    The World Bank has permitted the              strengthen institutional capacities in Cameroon (see Section III.B for
    Pipeline Project to start despite the         additional background). Implementation of the CAPECE Project started very
    limited capacity of the State of              slowly. The CAPECE Project was declared effective in March 2001, six
    Cameroon to undertake follow-up               months behind schedule. Further difficulties have been encountered during
    operations and implement the                  its implementation phase, mainly because of the need to build capacity
    necessary mitigation measures. The            within the Permanent Secretariat of the CPSP to handle the Bank's
    Bank's incapacity to ensure                   procurement and disbursement procedures and develop their commitment
    adequate strengthening of the                 to capacity building activities. To date, although the level of strengthening is
    capacities of the Cameroonian                 still inadequate, progress has been achieved, as noted below.
    administration constitutes a violation               The CPSP has: (i) used its own budgetary resources to finance regular
    of OD 4.01.                                   field missions to supervise and monitor implementation of the 1999 EA/EMP
                                                  and produce regular reports; (ii) benefited from the cooperation of the
                                                  Consortium to train some of its staff on oil and pipeline construction-related
                                                  activities; and (iii) developed good working relationships with line ministries
                                                  (those in charge of works, water resources, health, labor, mining,
                                                  environment and forest) that fielded their own teams to monitor the works
                                                  along the pipeline route. These activities have been highlighted in a
                                                  newsletter regularly published by the CPSP and widely disseminated in
                                                  Cameroon.
                                                         Late in 2001, the Permanent Secretariat began the procurement
                                                  process for equipment and services needed to strengthen and upgrade its
                                                  capacity. Several contracts for services for a total of USD 800,000 were
                                                  negotiated with consulting firms to assist in: developing the NOSRP;
                                                  monitoring implementation of the IPDP; supervising protection of cultural
                                                  assets; training staff in monitoring and enforcement; and developing the
                                                  legal and regulatory framework for environmental management and
                                                  monitoring. A contract to develop an Environmental Management
                                                  Information System is expected to be completed before the end of this year.
                                                         The efforts to implement these capacity-building activities aim at
                                                  ensuring that the Permanent Secretariat, using its own staff and resources,
                                                  will be in a position to generate and disseminate reports and data on
                                                  implementation of the 1999 EA/EMP that can be compared, where needed,
                                                  to those generated by the COTCO and its contractors. Also, these efforts
                                                  will help coordinate the activities of those involved in implementation,
                                                  supervision and monitoring, including line ministries, FEDEC, and COTCO
                                                  through sharing and exchange of information and harmonization and
                                                  synchronization of activities. This is a continuing area of focus for Bank
                                                  supervision of the CAPECE Project.

    Natural Habitats

14. Natural habitat replacement area.      4.04   In accordance with OP 4.04, the Bank requested that an offset be provided
    The choice of Campo as                        to compensate for Project-related biodiversity losses. The principle that the
    compensation for the destruction              GOC would create a National Park as an offset was discussed and agreed
    caused by oil pipeline construction           upon by the GOC, COTCO and the Bank in 1998. The National Park of
    seems unacceptable since it is                Campo-Ma'an did not pre-date the Pipeline Project. Campo-Ma'an was
    already a protected area, not a new           declared a National Park by Prime Ministerial Decree (No. 004) in January
    one, and a longstanding site of a             2000.
    GEF project.                                         While an area called "Reserve de Faune de Campo-Ma'an" existed
                                                  since 1932, this covered an area that was geographically distinct from the
                                                  current area of the park (see Map 2) and was open to a range of land uses
                                                  including hunting, logging and land conversion. Under Law 94-001 and
                                                  Decree 95/478, the Campo-Ma'an area was re-organized but continued to
                                                  include various and often competing land uses with only 90,000 hectares
                                                  devoted to "Integral ecological reserve." The Pipeline Project played a
                                                  catalytic role in obtaining the current status of a National Park, which affords
                                                  the highest level of protection possible under Cameroonian law to over
                                                  264,000 hectares of the best conserved forests in southwestern Cameroon.
                                                  In addition, it mandates compliance with special environmental provisions
                                                  for over 419,000 ha of the buffer zone that surrounds the Park. The Park




                                                             33

        Cameroon                                                                                 Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                            OD /
                                          OP/ BP                                     Response:

                                                 and buffer zone combined have been constituted into a UTO, a new land
                                                 management unit to secure consistency of management approaches within
                                                 and around the park.
                                                     The specific objective of the GEF project for the site of Campo-Ma'an
                                                 was to help "develop a land use plan in consultation with the local
                                                 populations as a basis for regazettement of specific zones for biodiversity
                                                 conservation" and assist in the "gazettement or regazettement of areas in
                                                 conformity with applicable management plans." The area now covered by
                                                 the Park was not yet gazetted when the GEF project started operations.
                                                 Logging activities were still taking place in some areas inside the proposed
                                                 park in November 1998 when the GOC granted a new authorization
                                                 enabling a logger to exploit the "conservation priority site" that had been set
                                                 aside to fulfill a specific GEF Grant condition. Following intervention by the
                                                 Bank, the GOC, on March 12, 1999, Ministerial Decision (No
                                                 0372/D/MINEF/DAJ), annulled the new logging authorizations and the
                                                 establishment of the park followed soon thereafter.

    ·   Protection of the region is      4.04    The presence of the Pipeline Project increased significantly the level of
        inadequate because of threats            protection against industrial threats. Protection is now greater than it was
        from industrial activity in the          without the Pipeline Project, as a result of greater attention to industrial
        immediate area.                          threats and increased awareness. Awareness was fostered by the
                                                 consultative process that accompanied creation of the National Park as an
                                                 environmental offset and by the production of the Campo-Ma'an Master
                                                 Plan.
                                                     Early on In Project preparation (1992-1994), the following existing and
                                                 potential environmental threats were identified:
                                                 ·   Large-scale plantations and agro-industries (Hévécam and Socapalm),
                                                     as well as logging and timber sawmills belonging to logging companies
                                                     (HFC, WIJMA) were in operation in the communes of Campo and
                                                     Ma'an. The Campo sawmill had existed since the early 1960s;
                                                 ·   Feasibility studies were underway for creation of a hydroelectric power
                                                     development on the Ntem River, including a barrage at Memve'ele with
                                                     retaining dams upstream, one of them in the Nyabessan area;
                                                 ·   Development of new port facilities was planned in the vicinity of Kribi to
                                                     Grand Batanga;
                                                 ·   Exploitation of iron ore deposits in the "Massif des Mammelles" (not a
                                                     high conservation priority site) was proposed; and
                                                 ·   Possible oil and gas exploitation in as yet undetermined locations were
                                                     contemplated with no information as to whether or not they would be
                                                     exploitable.
                                                     Since January 2000, when full protection status was accorded the new
                                                 National Park of Campo-Ma'an, all activities undertaken in the buffer zone
                                                 must be consistent with an overall park and buffer zone management plan
                                                 covering a total area of nearly 700,000 ha. Consultations helped clarify with
                                                 stakeholders the implications of the creation of the National Park for the
                                                 park area and surrounding buffer zone, and permitted the preparation a
                                                 master plan for the whole park plus buffer zone complex. This plan reflects
                                                 a holistic approach to land use, which should help mitigate threats from pre-
                                                 existing industrial activities, stave off new threats and create the conditions
                                                 necessary for ensuring the long-term sustainability of the new Park.
                                                     As a result of the efforts set in motion by the Pipeline Project:
                                                 ·   The GOC decided to stop construction of the dam on the Ntem Falls in
                                                     the Campo-Ma'an Park;
                                                 ·   A firm decision was made to prohibit construction of sawmills in the
                                                     Park's buffer area. This led the GOC to cancel a concession agreement
                                                     ("cahier de charges") it had signed with the Société Forestière de
                                                     Campo, which included the possibility of locating a sawmill within the
                                                     boundaries of the buffer zone, and to make a new agreement with the
                                                     company where the construction of a sawmill and other major




                                                           34

         Cameroon                                                                             Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                           OD /
                                         OP/ BP                                   Response:

                                                     infrastructure within the boundaries of the buffer zone were not
                                                     contemplated. The new agreement was signed by the two parties on
                                                     April 10, 2002;
                                                ·    Hévécam redirected its territorial claims for new industrial plantations to
                                                     areas north of the Akom II road;
                                                ·    The GOC decreed that EIAs must precede operations in logging
                                                     concessions located in the buffer zone, and that forest management
                                                     plans, developed using stakeholder consultations, must be disclosed
                                                     publicly; and
                                                ·    Binding agreements were signed between the GOC and the logging
                                                     company operating closest to the park to increase protection and avoid
                                                     disturbance of the park.

15. Delays in natural habitat           4.04    In January 2000, two parks--Campo-Ma'an and Mbam and Djerem--were
    replacement. OP 4.04 on natural             established by Decree as offsets for the loss of biodiversity in the coastal
    habitats has not been respected,            and semi-deciduous forests crossed by the pipeline, in accordance with OP
    since action to manage the                  4.04. The GOC has primary responsibility for protecting and managing the
    protected areas created in                  parks under Law 94-001 and its 1995 implementing Decree. The
    compensation for the environmental          Consortium agreed to support selected activities in these two parks as a
    damage due to construction works            mitigation measure (1999 EA/EMP, Cameroon Portion, Volume 4). FEDEC
    has not been launched because of            is charged with supporting financial implementation of this mitigation
    the delays in establishing the              measure. Management acknowledges that FEDEC's work started slowly,
    Environmental Foundation.                   but work has been launched.
                                                     As agreed upon in the Project Agreement between the Bank and
                                                COTCO (Article II, Section 2.01(c)) and the Loan Agreement between the
                                                Bank and the GOC (Article IV Section 4.01(a)). FEDEC was established on
                                                March 29, 2001. It was recognized as a not-for-profit institution by
                                                Presidential Decree 363/2001 dated November 16, 2001.
                                                     After the CAPECE supervision mission in July 2002, financial resources
                                                started to flow from the trustee of FEDEC's fund to FEDEC's board. This
                                                enabled the board to begin disbursing money. To date, and with assistance
                                                from COTCO, FEDEC has: (i) established its administrative unit and by-
                                                laws, (ii) selected organizations to implement activities in the two parks,
                                                namely WWF for Campo-Ma'an and WCS for Mbam and Djerem; (iii)
                                                selected a CDF; and (iv) approved three of four priority projects to benefit
                                                indigenous peoples affected by the pipeline.
                                                     A joint meeting with the Ministry of Environment and Forest, the CPSP,
                                                COTCO, and FEDEC will be held during the November 2002 CAPECE
                                                supervision mission to review the work program of FEDEC for 2003 and
                                                discuss relationships and responsibilities among those concerned with the
                                                implementation of the offset program. Signature of the contracts between
                                                WWF and FEDEC (for Campo-Ma'an) and WCS and FEDEC (for Mbam
                                                and Djerem) is expected before the end of December 2002.
                                                     In exchange for an estimated loss of about ten square kilometers of
                                                forest, the offsets provide protection for an area greater than 5,000 square
                                                kilometers. A total of USD 4.8 million will be provided for the parks. COTCO
                                                will contribute USD 2.9 million to FEDEC to support park management
                                                planning studies and ongoing biodiversity protection in the core areas. The
                                                GOC will complement COTCO contributions with expenditures of about
                                                USD 1.9 million. These resources are expected to be more than adequate
                                                to mitigate any residual impacts of the Pipeline Project on biodiversity.

    Indigenous Peoples

16. Bakola. The Project does not seem   4.20    As required under OD 4.20, the Bakola people of the Atlantic coastal forest
    to have a strategy for ensuring the         were identified as an indigenous people likely to be significantly affected by
    participation of indigenous peoples         the Pipeline Project, and an IPDP was prepared and approved (1999
    in the decision making process              EA/EMP, Cameroon Portion, Volume 4). Thus, Management believes that
    during the design, implementation           the Pipeline Project is in compliance with the requirements of OD 4.20.The
    and assessment phases (paragraph            guiding principle in preparation of the IPDP was to ensure that the Bakola
    15.d of OD 4.20), which would               population received culturally compatible social and economic benefits from



                                                           35

         Cameroon                                                                               Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                             OD /
                                           OP/ BP                                    Response:

    include taking account of traditional         the Pipeline Project. The IPDP is designed to mitigate adverse impacts of
    knowledge, local cultures and the             the Pipeline Project as well as to provide a development framework for the
    traditional use of resources in               Bakola settlements in the Project impact area.
    determining the IPDP; the process                  The strategic approach to Bakola involvement in Project design and in
    of consulting the indigenous                  preparation of the IPDP included:
    peoples has not been adequate, as             ·    Mapping Bakola settlements in the area in order to determine
    shown by the low level of                          appropriate routing of the pipeline;
    information in the communities                ·    Identifying Bakola hunting grounds to assess potential Project impacts
    regarding the outlines of the                      on their livelihood;
    Pipeline Project.                             ·    Assessing the potential short-term impacts on Bakola and Bantu
                                                       populations during the 3-month construction period;
                                                  ·    Establishing employment possibilities for both Bakola and Bantu
                                                       communities within the impact area; and
                                                  ·    Articulating a participatory framework for community-based decision
                                                       making aimed at empowering and enhancing the human capital base of
                                                       the Bakola.
                                                  This approach was significantly different from previous "blueprint"
                                                  approaches adopted since 1964 by the GOC, designed to sedentarize
                                                  Bakola groups along the roadside.
                                                       The consultation process used in developing the IPDP is detailed in the
                                                  IPDP, pages 3-10 through 3-15. The strategy for ensuring the participation
                                                  of the Bakola in determining the programs to be financed through the IPDP
                                                  and ensuring that it takes full account of traditional knowledge, local culture,
                                                  and traditional use of resources is also specified (IPDP, pages 3-2 through
                                                  3-5). The implementation of this strategy is primarily the responsibility of
                                                  FEDEC's CDF.

    The question of access to land, the           Historically, the Bakola have been a nomadic group of forest inhabitants
    outlines of which are specified in            who have sustained their livelihoods through hunting and gathering
    paragraph 15 of OD 4.20, is not               activities. More recently, they have also engaged in agricultural production
    addressed by the Plan.                        (mainly cassava cultivation) in the disturbed forest area along the Lolodorf
                                                  Road. The Bakola perceive land as territory, not as private property to be
                                                  appropriated and owned. Therefore, they have no ancestral domain claims
                                                  like Bantu groups.
                                                       The central goal of the IPDP is to work with the Bakola to raise their
                                                  standard of living and empower their communities so that they can take
                                                  their place as full citizens of Cameroon and establish their position within
                                                  the local customary land use system. Provision of ID cards is a first key step
                                                  in this process. The issue of access to land for agriculture was raised early
                                                  on in supervision and ECMG monitoring reports. FEDEC and COTCO
                                                  specialists are aware of the complexity and sensitivity of this issue. This
                                                  long-term issue will need to be resolved in the context of a customary
                                                  tenure system in ways that will not exacerbate Bakola-Bantu relations.
                                                       See Response No. 17 below for more information on the
                                                  implementation of the IPDP.

17. Negative project effects on the        4.20   Implementation of the FEDEC work plan has been delayed, as discussed
    Bakola. The Bakola believe that               above. In the meantime, however, COTCO has provided health, education,
    they have suffered negative effects           and other assistance to the Bakola over the period leading up to FEDEC's
    of the Pipeline Project without so far        involvement. Two full time anthropologists with extensive experience with
    having been able to enjoy any of the          the Bakola have been part of the COTCO team and have been in constant
    advantages set out in the IPDP.               contact with the Bakola settlements. In addition, COTCO will provide
                                                  community compensation, amounting to USD 40,000 equivalent, to the
                                                  Bakola to be used, as they have requested, in improving their housing
                                                  conditions. Thus, Management believes that the Pipeline Project is still in
                                                  compliance with the requirements of OD 4.20.

    Apart from the pollution and
    compensation issues already noted,
    the construction work on the oil
    pipeline has caused the following



                                                             36

         Cameroon                                                                                Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                             OD /
                                           OP/ BP                                    Response:

    problems:

    · Disturbance of the environment              Bakola hunting areas are found two to three days' walk away from the
       due to the noise of heavy                  roadside settlements; these areas are well away from construction noise or
       equipment throughout the                   other impacts. Such temporary disturbance in the pipeline right-of-way area
       construction phase: this noise             due to construction noise was anticipated in the 1999 EA/EMP.
       nuisance has had a negative                Consultations with the Bakola indicated that, based on their previous
       impact on the presence of                  experience with logging, any wildlife in the disturbed area along the Kribi-
       game, and on our own                       Lolodorf road would return rapidly after pipeline construction was
       subsistence;                               completed. There would be no significant or long-term effect on their
                                                  hunting and gathering lifestyle.

    · Inadequate information during               Early in Project preparation, COTCO undertook an extensive inventory of all
       the preparatory phase of the               Bakola camps in the Project region. Twenty-three camps were determined
       Pipeline Project, and since the            to be within two kilometers of the pipeline route and therefore likely to be
       construction phase began;                  affected by the Pipeline Project. During Project preparation, COTCO's
                                                  consultant, the GEPFE, undertook 165 intensive field visits to these
                                                  settlements to provide information on the Pipeline Project and seek input for
                                                  the design of the IPDP. These facts were validated by the Bank pre-
                                                  appraisal mission in April 1999. In 1998, COTCO held a two-day
                                                  consultation meeting with the Bakola at Kribi. Each camp was represented
                                                  by two delegates. The consultation helped to clarify Bakola views and
                                                  priorities and assisted in the design of a framework for a more participatory
                                                  planning process to be implemented as part of the IPDP, guided by the CDF
                                                  in FEDEC.

    · Non-implementation of the                   FEDEC has been operational since May 2001. It had a late start and thus
       actions set out in the IPDP,               COTCO undertook actions in anticipation of FEDEC operations. Permanent
       which could have improved the              staff (Administrator, CDF, Executive Assistant, and a Bakola facilitator) are
       living conditions of the Bakola;           now in place. IPDP activities began in August 2002. Three priority activities
       the delay in launching the                 are currently being carried out: (i) provision of identity cards; (ii) a schooling
       activities of the Environmental            program, and (iii) a health program. The planned agricultural program will
       Foundation, responsible for                commence with the next growing season.
       implementing the IPDP, has                      In addition, after consultations carried out in 1998, COTCO has
       meant that the Bakola have not             implemented various activities to benefit the Bakola outside the framework
       been able to benefit from the              of the IPDP. These include construction of boarding schools at Bidou and
       mitigation measures envisaged              Ngoyang villages, distribution of schoolbooks to Bakola students and school
       under the Pipeline Project;                supplies to the Ngoyang boarding school; support for the implementation of
                                                  an anti-tuberculosis program among the Bakola; and creation of a special
                                                  medical fund.
                                                       FEDEC is collaborating or plans to collaborate with a wide range of
                                                  organizations working with the Bakola, including SAILD, the Little Sisters of
                                                  Jesus, and the Notre Dame de la Forêt boarding school established for the
                                                  Bakola. FEDEC has held planning meetings with the aim of collaboration
                                                  with the NGOs Planet Survey and Forest Peoples Program.

    · Lack of any participation by the            This issue has been addressed under Response No. 16 above. The ECMG
       Bakola in drawing up the IPDP;             and staff carrying out supervision missions are closely following progress.
                                                  FEDEC provides regular reporting on IPDP implementation and other
                                                  relevant issues.
                                                       During FEDEC's early design phase, the Bakola raised the issue of
                                                  Bakola representation on FEDEC's Board. The Bank recommended that
                                                  this be done, but the final composition of the FEDEC Board as proposed by
                                                  the Consortium in the 1999 EA/EMP did not include a Bakola
                                                  representative. The Bank agreed that a Bakola representative was not an
                                                  indispensable requirement given the difficulty of establishing legitimate
                                                  representation among the Bakola community. Bakola society is egalitarian;
                                                  their settlements do not generally recognize representational leadership
                                                  beyond the household level.

    · The plan for recruiting local staff,        COTCO and sub-contractor statistics indicate that thirty-four Bakola (out of
       which gives priority to the                less than 700, including about 300 working age adults, living in the Pipeline




                                                             37

          Cameroon                                                                                 Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                             OD /
                                            OP/ BP                                     Response:

        inhabitants of the villages                Project area) have been employed on the construction sites. Rules
        abutting the oil pipeline, has not         regarding priority to be given to local people in recruitment have been
        been respected in the case of              applied equally to Bantu and Bakola job seekers. The COTCO
        the Bakola;                                anthropologist has been proactive in seeking out job opportunities for the
                                                   Bakola among the Pipeline Project sub-contractors. More broadly, the
                                                   educational programs envisaged in the IPDP will assist the Bakola to
                                                   acquire skills needed to take advantage of future employment opportunities
                                                   in the region.

    · The reduction in fishing activities          Environmental monitoring activities so far have not identified any significant
        due to the disturbances in the             reduction in fishing activities in the Pipeline Project area, with the exception
        region's hydrographic network              of the case in Mpango village (not a Bakola settlement) that is discussed in
        has not been the subject of any            Annex 2.
        mitigation measure or
        compensation for the Bakola
        populations.

    Involuntary
    Resettlement/Compensation

18. Involuntary Resettlement. The                  Management believes that it is in compliance with the provisions of OD
    World Bank has not respected OD                4.30. Although no households in Cameroon have been physically resettled
    4.30 on the involuntary resettlement           and only one household has lost a significant portion of its total assets to
    of populations.                                the Pipeline Project, over 4,000 households have been compensated for
                                                   land and crop losses according to the Compensation Plan described in the
                                                   1999 EA/EMP, Cameroon Portion, Volume 3. The single household which
                                                   lost significant assets has been treated in accordance with the
                                                   "resettlement" provisions of this plan. The Plan includes provisions for
                                                   community compensation in kind (projects to be selected by the
                                                   communities) to mitigate the loss of common property resources such as
                                                   wild trees, fish and game, as well as general disturbance caused by
                                                   construction activities. See also Section III.E above.
                                                        The remainder of this response is limited to issues raised at the
                                                   community level. Responses to the claims in the Request for Inspection
                                                   made by individuals are provided in Annex 2.

    Compensation issues. - The             4.30    Most Bakola households did not receive individual compensation, because
    Bakola community of Kour Mintoum,              the pipeline was routed to avoid disturbing Bakola settlements. However,
    about one kilometer from the oil               construction activities could have resulted in unanticipated damage to
    pipeline route in the Kribi region,            individual property (food crops) or community property (medicinal plants,
    has not been compensated for                   game). Individual claims for compensation related to damage incurred
    losses incurred as a result of the             during construction are currently being processed by COTCO. Damage to
    construction of the pipeline. This             community property is covered by the community compensation that
    included destruction of fields of food         COTCO is providing (see Response No. 17 above).
    crops without any compensation
    being paid; and destruction of
    medicinal plants along the route of
    the oil pipeline. Lastly, game has
    become rare since the construction
    work began.

    The inhabitants of Mpango are
    concerned about problems related
    to village water supply:

    · Destruction of the village's                 Construction of the Kribi storage yard did result in the village of Mpango
        source of drinking water during            losing its source of water supply. COTCO drilled a new well on the property
        construction of the Kribi storage          of one inhabitant of the village. This well is available to village members and
        site, without the promised                 is no further from the village than the original water source. In addition, a
        compensation from the                      well drilled currently serving as a source of water for the construction of the
        contractor; the village no longer          pressure reduction station will be turned over to the community following
        has access to drinking water;              completion of ongoing construction. COTCO has committed to provide the




                                                              38

          Cameroon                                                                               Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                             OD /
                                            OP/ BP                                   Response:

                                                   community with a pump for this well. (See response to Issue 9, above).
                                                        Bank supervision missions will continue to monitor this situation to
                                                   ascertain that the community does not suffer a long-term loss in its water
                                                   supply.

    · Reduction in the flow of the river           Pipeline Project construction activities did not interfere with the natural flow
        Pembo, which supplies the                  of the Pembo River. Reduced flow and/or flooding may have been due to
        southern part of the village with          natural conditions or to unauthorized dumping of fill dirt by sub-contractors
        water. During construction, for a          in response to a request by the village chief. See also Annex 2.
        period of four months, there was
        no water downstream, while
        upstream there were floods; and

    · Fishing was discontinued                     The portion of the Pembo River in the vicinity of pipeline construction holds
        upstream from the pipeline due             small bait fish populations. As noted above, any flow changes were not due
        to a noticeable alteration in the          to pipeline construction activities.
        flow of the river Pembo after                   Supervision missions have visited the site and ascertained that there
        burial of the oil pipeline;                have been no significant or long-term changes in the flow of the Pembo
                                                   River (a small stream) or in fish populations in this area. The Bank will
                                                   continue to monitor this situation.

    For the inhabitants of the other               The Bank supervision team has confirmed that the choice of compensation
    villages                                       was not imposed on the populations. Wide ranging consultations were
    · Populations had compensation                 undertaken concerning individual compensation, and the choice of
        choices imposed by company                 compensation in cash or in kind (or a mix) was provided. People made their
        agents;                                    choices on the basis of a catalogue of options and the amount to which they
                                                   were entitled. With regard to community compensation, six NGOs, together
                                                   with COTCO and CPSP monitors, commenced work in all concerned
                                                   villages in the second quarter of 2002. A catalogue of regional
                                                   compensation options was presented to local populations, who freely chose
                                                   any option (either from the catalogue or any other local initiative) which
                                                   corresponded best to their needs and the amount to which they were
                                                   entitled.
                                                        In one instance a community (see Annex 2) wished to be connected to
                                                   the electricity grid. However, the cost of connection is much higher than the
                                                   community compensation entitlement. COTCO will not cover the difference.
                                                   In this case COTCO has agreed to provide a "letter of credit" specifying the
                                                   community compensation entitlement. If the community is unable to cover
                                                   the differential, COTCO will discuss and agree with the community on the in
                                                   kind compensation as required in the EMP. This s not a case of imposition
                                                   of compensation choices by COTCO.

    · Payments were not made before                In most cases, compensation has been paid to affected individuals before
        construction, with the result that         construction activities started. This has been verified by Bank supervision
        destruction took place before              missions. In a few cases, payment has not been made because of the
        adequate and total payment of              inability of the land owners and users to agree on who should receive
        due compensation;                          payment. Complete dossiers are maintained on these cases and payment
                                                   will be made as soon as the conflicts are resolved. Bank policy does not
                                                   require that all compensation be paid or all conflicts resolved before
                                                   construction starts. It does require that compensation processes be
                                                   designed to enable rapid restoration of living standards, and provide
                                                   channels for individuals with grievances to seek redress. Management
                                                   believes that the Pipeline Project is in compliance with these requirements.

    · Poor quality of equipment as                 The process of registering grievances and seeking solutions under the
        compensation in kind has                   Compensation Plan for the Pipeline Project is described in Section III.E
        prevented renewed                          above. This process has been followed with respect to the defective
        development; further, the choice           equipment, and COTCO has been responsive to the people's concerns.
        of equipment providers was                 Some defective equipment has already been replaced (e.g., bicycles).
        made by COTCO, but the                     Motor-pumps have had suction pumps added and defective grinders have
        villagers bear the brunt;                  been replaced by COTCO. The original expectation that villagers could take
                                                   advantage of manufacturers' guarantees proved unrealistic and COTCO




                                                             39

         Cameroon                                                                                 Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                              OD /
                                            OP/ BP                                    Response:

                                                   has now assumed this responsibility on their behalf. See also Annex 2.

    · The process for handling                     Consideration of claims has been slow. In some cases, particularly those
        disputes is very slow; and                 concerning land, delays are essentially administrative. There are also some
                                                   cases that cannot be decided by law (inheritance issues in families following
                                                   death of a beneficiary). The 1999 EA/EMP ties the payment of COTCO
                                                   compensation to the payment of Government compensation due under
                                                   Cameroon law; thus, it can become subject to administrative delays. Both in
                                                   the broader framework of the Bank policy dialogue with the GOC, and in the
                                                   context of the legal component of the CAPECE Project, the Bank is
                                                   promoting improvements in the legal framework for compensation and
                                                   improved functioning of the judiciary in Cameroon.

    · Directives of the World Bank                 The Bank policy on compensation is intended to facilitate the restoration of
        have not been respected by the             the living standards of project affected people within a reasonable period of
        Consortium. Payments in cash               time. It does not guarantee direct or immediate replacement of lost
        and kind have not been                     production. In the case of the Pipeline Project, people were offered both
        sufficient to permit restoration or        cash and in kind compensation which they could choose and use at their
        improvement of production                  discretion. Management believes that the Cameroon compensation program
        levels. The timetable for                  has been carried out by the GOC and COTCO in conformity with the Bank's
        payments, some of which are                policies and procedures. This view has been supported by the ECMG and
        still awaited, has not been                the IAG. Out of about 4,000 cases of individual compensation in Cameroon,
        conducive to their being used for          only 27 remain unpaid, due to conflicts within families or because of legal
        new investments by the local               and administrative procedures. See also the reply to Item No. 20 below.
        populations concerned.                          Compensation in cash and in kind is intended to be used by the
        Furthermore, no management                 beneficiaries, as they choose, to develop new plantations or undertake any
        arrangement has been set in                other activity which will replace lost production and/or enhance levels of
        place for the benefit of local             living. There is no entitlement to additional benefits unless people's lands
        populations wanting to create              and livelihoods are significantly affected. In this case the Pipeline Project's
        new plantations to replace those           "resettlement" provisions apply. So far, these provisions have been applied
        that have been destroyed. The              in only one case, related to land acquisition around a pumping station.
        result therefore is the                         The Bank and the GOC will follow up on the use of compensation and
        impoverishment of affected                 the maintenance or restoration of living standards during the mid-term
        populations.                               review and at the end of the CAPECE Project.

19. Annual Report on Compensation.          4.30   As noted above, Management believes that the Pipeline Project is in
    The World Bank has not respected               compliance with OD 4.30. OD 4.30 (para. 22) requires that "arrangements
    Directive OD 4.30 on the involuntary           for monitoring implementation of resettlement and evaluating its impact
    resettlement of populations, and in            should be developed by the Borrower during project preparation and used
    particular the requirements relating           during supervision." The 1999 EA/EMP provides for these (Cameroon
    to the production of an annual report          Portion, Volume 3). OD 4.30 (para. 22) also states that "Annual and
    by the Pipeline Project on the                 midterm impact evaluation are desirable for large-scale resettlement. The
    implementation of compensation                 Borrower should be required to continue impact evaluation for a reasonable
    (paragraph 22).                                period after all resettlement and related development activities have been
                                                   completed."
                                                        Supervision missions and ECMG's quarterly monitoring indicate that
                                                   these requirements were met. The CPSP is maintaining a database of all
                                                   resettlement and compensation activities and provides the Bank and the
                                                   ECMG with adequate information on the subject. No significant issue
                                                   dealing with disclosure of information or compensation was identified by
                                                   Bank staff or the ECMG during their field missions. During 2001 and the first
                                                   quarter of 2002, COTCO issued Quarterly Reports and the CPSP issued
                                                   several issues of its Pipeline Newsletter that contained information about
                                                   compensation issues. This information has been made widely available in
                                                   the country.
                                                        Bank staff will continue to review quarterly reports prepared by COTCO
                                                   as well as those of CPSP and ECMG on involuntary resettlement and
                                                   compensation. An impact evaluation will be carried out during the Pipeline
                                                   Project Mid-Term Review in the first quarter of 2003. In anticipation of a
                                                   compensation impact study, COTCO undertook a comprehensive socio-
                                                   economic baseline study of populations along the pipeline.




                                                             40

          Cameroon                                                                                  Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                             OD /
                                            OP/ BP                                    Response:

    Poverty

20. Poverty reduction. The Project has     4.15    The Pipeline Project is consistent with Cameroon's poverty reduction
    caused structural impoverishment of            strategy. However, it is not a poverty focused project and thus, consistent
    numerous persons living along the              with OD 4.15, para 27, inter alia, does not trigger this policy. These issues
    oil pipeline. Because of lack of               are addressed through compliance with the other relevant provisions
    management and methods of                      discussed in this Management Response. Nevertheless, it can be noted that
    payment of compensation (in cash               on the basis of Bank supervision missions, Management believes that the
    and in kind with agricultural                  majority of persons compensated, whether for temporary or permanent
    equipment of poor quality), many               acquisition of land, have benefited from the compensation offered and have
    local populations living along the oil         suffered no serious reduction in their standard of living. Individuals were
    pipeline have not been able to                 given a choice of compensation, and compensation has been used in many
    reconstitute plantations destroyed             ways, including but not limited to the reconstitution of food crop plantations.
    during the construction work. The              Compensation, particularly cash compensation, could be used to enhance
    amounts paid in compensation have              family welfare in a variety of ways. The village of Ebaka, for example, has
    therefore rarely been adequately               been nearly entirely rebuilt. Where in kind compensation proved to be of
    used.                                          poor quality, COTCO has taken steps to replace the defective tools and
                                                   equipment.
                                                        Most of the land used for pipeline construction was acquired for
                                                   temporary use and is being returned to the original owners after one
                                                   growing season as pipeline construction is completed. About half of this
                                                   land will be subject to a permanent easement for pipeline monitoring; tree-
                                                   crop cultivation will not be allowed in the permanent easement, but annual
                                                   crops and grazing will be permitted. Thus, there is no reason to believe that
                                                   land acquisition will lead to "structural impoverishment." The small parcels
                                                   acquired for the construction of the permanent facilities (pumping and
                                                   pressure reduction stations) have been appropriately compensated, and
                                                   only one household has been permanently deprived of a significant share of
                                                   its farmlands. This household has been compensated in accordance with
                                                   the "resettlement" provisions of the 1999 EA/EMP.
                                                        In particular cases the compensation money may not have been
                                                   appropriately used to develop new plantations or in other ways to maintain
                                                   or improve household standards of living. Efforts have been made to inform
                                                   communities of the purpose of compensation, to provide transparency in
                                                   making payments, and to encourage informal social control of its use. A
                                                   socio-economic evaluation study is planned under the CAPECE Project;
                                                   terms of reference for this study are currently in preparation at CPSP. In
                                                   addition, a study on the future of the workforce employed by COTCO and its
                                                   contractors, after the pipeline is built, will be undertaken, with a view to
                                                   suggesting options to provide further employment and livelihood
                                                   opportunities. The Bank will request COTCO and CPSP to follow up, in
                                                   particular, on use of compensation to ascertain that no permanent decline in
                                                   living standards takes place.

21. In many cases the refusal to pay               Claims or contested cases of long duration have been those concerning
    due compensation has involved                  land, where administrative and judicial procedures are very slow. Other
    local populations in lengthy and               cases that have not yet been resolved concern disputes over inheritance
    costly proceedings, of which only a            rights within families. There are also cases, in particular plantings that were
    few have resulted in payment, which            undertaken after the Verification and Valuation Commissions completed
    is derisory when compared with the             their inventory, for which compensation is not due. As noted above under
    sums invested by the victims.                  Item 18, out of about 4,000 cases of individual compensation in Cameroon,
    Lastly, the slowness of the process            only 27 remain unpaid, due to conflicts within families or because of legal
    of handling compensation disputes              and administrative procedures.
    deprives the beneficiaries of sums                  In the context of its broader policy dialogue with the GOC, the Bank is
    they had a right to expect for the             making every effort to help improve the quality and efficiency of the court
    reconstitution of their production             system, in particular to encourage improved handling of compensation and
    systems.                                       resettlement issues. Under the CAPECE Project, civil servants, judges,
                                                   lawyers and other staff involved in the implementation of the legislation
                                                   dealing with the construction and operation of oil pipelines and
                                                   environmental protection will receive specific training including training on




                                                             41

          Cameroon                                                                                Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                             OD /
                                            OP/ BP                                    Response:

                                                   resettlement and compensation issues. A consultant has been contracted
                                                   and training is expected to start soon.

    Supervision

22. No follow-up report has mentioned      13.05   Intensified supervision efforts are discussed in Section III.F. The ECMG and
    the problems encountered in                    the IAG, established to monitor Pipeline Project implementation and
    Mpango because of construction of              compliance with the 1999 EA/EMP, have been effective and instrumental in
    the oil pipeline. No measure has               raising and discussing all pending issues. Reports of both are available
    been envisaged for dealing with the            online at the Bank website http://www.worldbank.org/afr/ccproj/. IAG
    delay in implementation of the IPDP            maintains its own website at www.gic-iag.org.
    or for mitigating damage to the                     In addition to staff at Bank headquarters involved in supervision of the
    environment not foreseen in the                CAPECE Project and the Pipeline Project, a staff member located in
    Environmental Management Plan                  Cameroon since May 2001 has as primary responsibility to work on the
    (especially the drying up or pollution         Projects and maintain close relationships with the CPSP, COTCO,
    of water courses).                             Government agencies, civil society organizations and individual
                                                   stakeholders. The supervision teams work under the coordination of the
                                                   Pipeline Project Task Manager residing in Chad. In addition to supervision
                                                   missions and quarterly ECMG monitoring, the supervision teams review
                                                   reports and information on a regular basis. In aide-memoires and letters to
                                                   the GOC, supervision teams have raised pertinent issues, including delays
                                                   in implementing agreed-upon actions.
                                                   ·    The delay in implementing the IPDP is addressed in Responses 15 and
                                                        17. During supervision, discussions are held with COTCO, which has
                                                        agreed to support and finance some social infrastructure and activities
                                                        targeting Bakola communities. These activities have been monitored by
                                                        the CPSP, which discusses its findings with supervision teams,
                                                        including shortcomings that were addressed with COTCO;
                                                   ·    Issues concerning water courses are addressed in Response No. 9;
                                                        and
                                                   ·    Monitoring of water quality, road construction and other issues is
                                                        regularly discussed with CPSP and Government agencies in charge of
                                                        monitoring the 1999 EA/EMP provisions. A log of issues and solutions
                                                        has been established and is maintained by both COTCO and the
                                                        CPSP.
                                                        See Response No. 1 for a discussion of the way in which unforeseen
                                                   impacts are handled.

23. The Project Appraisal Document         13.05   Following Board approval of the Pipeline Project and the CAPECE Project,
    prepared by the World Bank states              the timetable for construction of the pipeline was accelerated while the
    that implementation of the                     implementation schedule of the CAPECE Project was delayed.
    safeguard measures by the                      Management is aware of the potential problems caused by this combination
    Government of Cameroon within the              of circumstances, and has responded through intensified supervision efforts
    scope of the CAPECE Project shall              aimed at accelerating the implementation of capacity building activities.
    follow the timetable for the                        Regular consultations with project affected people have been held by
    construction and exploitation of the           COTCO along the pipeline to discuss issues related to the Pipeline Project.
    oil pipeline. Implementation of the            Such sessions are recorded in COTCO's reports; for example, 189 sessions
    Project has hitherto been unsuited             with 8168 attendees were held in the second quarter of 2002. COTCO has
    to the encouragement of public                 also appointed LCCs that are permanently deployed along the pipeline. The
    participation in oil pipeline                  Permanent Secretariat of the CPSP has two socio-economists working in
    construction activities, to permitting         the field in collaboration with these LCCs, who participate in some of the
    follow-up of the social issues related         sessions.
    to compensation, to the protection                  In spite of these efforts, there is a consensus that communication with
    of public health, including against            communities could be improved. There is also a need to address the risk of
    HIV/AIDS, to improving the situation           over-expectation at the local level with regard to benefits from the Pipeline
    of the indigenous peoples, and to              Project. As a result a local communication plan is being prepared jointly by
    protecting Cameroon's cultural                 COTCO, the Permanent Secretariat of the CPSP, and the Bank.
    heritage.                                           Under the CAPECE Project, the CPSP is responsible for following up
                                                   on social issues related to compensation, working together with the Ministry
                                                   of Public Health to promote the protection of public health, and contracting
                                                   with local consultants: (i) to monitor the situation of indigenous people



                                                              42

         Cameroon                                                                                 Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                            OD /
                                          OP/ BP                                     Response:

                                                 affected by the Pipeline Project; and (ii) to monitor, together with the
                                                 Ministry of Culture, the implementation of the Cultural Heritage Plan. CPSP
                                                 has been informing the public of its activities through the publication of the
                                                 "Lettre du CPSP." The Bank recognizes that CPSP's communications with
                                                 civil society could also be improved, and is working with CPSP on the
                                                 implementation of a strategy that would better facilitate public participation
                                                 in Project activities.
                                                       Supervision missions report the following:
                                                 ·     The GOC, through CPSP, has the critical role of supervising and
                                                       monitoring the implementation of the 1999 EA/EMP by COTCO and its
                                                       contractors. CPSP staff have been recruited and procedures designed
                                                       to allow the various agencies involved to implement their monitoring
                                                       mandate;
                                                 ·     In addition to permanent monitoring teams established by CPSP,
                                                       supervision of the works is carried out by the relevant ministries. Bank
                                                       supervision of this process is documented in mission aide-memoires.
                                                       The Ministry of Environment also has undertaken ad-hoc supervision
                                                       visits to the pipeline corridor and offset areas;
                                                 ·     A system has been put in place by COTCO and CPSP to process
                                                       complaints (95 percent of complaints had been processed as of
                                                       December 2001), and a field team of socio-economists from the
                                                       Permanent Secretariat of the CPSP works in collaboration with
                                                       COTCO's field socio-economists to follow up on complaints;
                                                 ·     The health component of the CAPECE Project was slow to start,
                                                       despite the appointment of two health specialists at CPSP and this was
                                                       brought to the attention of the GOC; the component is now in
                                                       accelerated implementation;
                                                 ·     Implementation of the IPDP has been delayed by FEDEC's slow start.
                                                       Socio-economists from CPSP have monitored the support that COTCO
                                                       provided to the Bakola until FEDEC was established, staffed and put
                                                       into operation. CPSP is now hiring a consultant for continuous
                                                       monitoring of the effects of the Pipeline Project on the Bakola; and
                                                 ·     Cameroon's cultural heritage has been discussed with the Ministry of
                                                       Culture, which informed the Bank of its fruitful collaboration with
                                                       COTCO. The Ministry of Culture will be assisted in the analysis and
                                                       management of any culturally-significant site discovered along the
                                                       pipeline route. The CPSP, under the CAPECE Project, is in the process
                                                       of contracting a consultant to support the Ministry of Culture in
                                                       addressing cultural heritage issues. The draft contract was reviewed
                                                       and cleared by the Bank in September 2002.

    Other

24. Lack of response to complaints.              The Bank supervision team has responded to complaints that have been
    Directly or through non-                     raised with them in the field regarding the Pipeline Project. The Bank
    governmental organization (NGO)              Country Office in Yaoundé has been closely monitoring the Pipeline Project.
    channels we have formulated                  Meetings are held as appropriate with all stakeholders (GOC, CPSP,
    written or verbal complaints to those        COTCO, FEDEC, NGOs, and local communities) to: (i) take stock of
    in charge of the construction works          implementation progress; and (ii) identify issues/problems that may need
    and to all the other institutions            corrective actions. Moreover, Bank staff in Yaoundé have carried out field
    involved in the construction or              visits along the pipeline route and have systematically reported to COTCO,
    Project follow-up. We have also              CPSP, and the GOC. COTCO maintains a file of complaints and the
    informed the World Bank in writing           respective responses available at their offices in Douala.
    or verbally, directly or through NGO               Although the Bank is not party to the labor contracts between COTCO,
    channels, about these problems,              its sub-contractors and workers, Bank staff--when made aware of concerns
    without any reaction being                   and possible irregularities--have held meetings with COTCO and the
    forthcoming. (See the annex for              CPSP, to address the issues. Finally, the Bank Country Office has been
    copies of correspondence and                 following closely the IAG and ECMG independent review processes and
    documents establishing that the              supervision missions and has undertaken actions as suggested by these
    World Bank was informed of the               periodic reviews to facilitate implementation of both the Pipeline Project and




                                                             43

          Cameroon                                                                               Management Response




No. Claim/Issue                             OD /
                                           OP/ BP                                    Response:

    situation.)                                   the CAPECE Project.
    Many requests addressed to                         In the period from December 2001 to March 2002, a mass-mailing was
    COTCO or the Government of                    addressed to Mr. Wolfensohn, President of the World-Bank, which raised
    Cameroon have remained                        some generic concerns related to the situation of the Bakola. In particular
    unanswered. The information                   these letters argued that the "prerequisites required by [the World Bank]
    transmitted to the World Bank has             were not fulfilled." Each of these standard letters received an answer
    to the best of our knowledge elicited         addressing the concerns raised and explaining the details of the IPDP.
    no reaction. In some cases, we                     The copies of correspondence annexed to the Request for Inspection
    have replies from the Government              do not appear to show that copies of these were previously sent to the Bank
    of Cameroon and from COTCO,                   or to the IFC.
    which are opposed to any
    reparation of the wrongs we have
    suffered. In addition, the official
    Project documents convey an
    optimistic view which seems not to
    take account of the non-compliance
    cases of which we are victims (see
    correspondence in the annex).

25. Labor relations. The Requesters               The Agreement of Establishment of August 7, 1997 entered into between
    consider that the Consortium has              the Republic of Cameroon and COTCO provides for the obligation of
    not complied with Cameroonian law             COTCO to contract local workers and to develop a training program for
    with respect to classification of             them. COTCO has the freedom to contract adequate staff without any
    workers employed in construction              interference or intervention from the GOC. The relations between COTCO
    work. They state that COTCO and               and its workers are governed by applicable Cameroonian legislation and
    its sub-contractors continue to               thus labor disputes must be resolved according to these laws and
    depend on 30-yr old collective                regulations. The Bank was informed about disputes between COTCO and
    agreements. Despite some                      its workers regarding interpretation of some rules and choice of applicable
    negotiations in February 2002, one            laws.
    sub-contractor has not yet                         Pipeline construction activities in Cameroon are governed by
    respected the agreement signed                Regulation No. 24 MTS of May 27, 1969, which determines that wage rates
    with regard to improved working               on pipelines are paid as civil works projects, not petroleum sector wage
    conditions, including salaries, health        rates, (which are higher). The Ministry of Labor of Cameroon has
    cover, solidarity fund, training              determined that the collective agreements signed are appropriate. Doba
    bonuses, safety bonuses, overtime,            Logistics and other COTCO sub-contractors have negotiated and signed
    night work, etc. Failure to respect           agreements with their workforces as proposed by the Ministry of Labor.
    the law has deprived the workers of                The May 2002 Report of Visit to Cameroon ­ April 7 to 18, 2002 by the
    income and working conditions they            IAG discusses work site labor conditions and the legal framework for labor
    might have expected from                      issues (pages 5 and 8). The report makes recommendations to COTCO to
    collaborating with the Pipeline               ensure that contractors and sub-contractors respect labor legislation and
    Project. Dismissals consequent                introduce an information system to enable timely specification of
    upon various accidents are contrary           responsibilities and rapid settlement of disputes (page 11). The IAG also
    to Cameroonian labor law.                     commends the work of the Ministry to Labor to renew collective agreements
                                                  and recommends that the Ministry take steps to ensure that COTCO and
                                                  the contractors support and actively participate in these labor relations
                                                  renewal efforts.
                                                       See also Section III.G.

26. HIV/AIDS. The Requesters allege               The Bank does not have a policy regarding HIV/AIDS. However, the fight
    that there has been a renewed                 against this destructive disease is a very high priority for the Bank,
    outbreak of sexually transmitted              especially in the Africa Region. Actions to address HIV/AIDS include broad-
    diseases and HIV/AIDS all along the           based support to Government strategies under the Multi-sectoral AIDS
    oil pipeline and around the Pipeline          Program (MAP) as well as design of new projects and retrofitting of ongoing
    Project's main bases (from north to           projects in all sectors to address this issue. In this context, the Bank regards
    south), and an increase in the                the Pipeline Project and its accompanying capacity-building projects as an
    prostitution of minors along the              opportunity to provide additional support to the Governments and to help
    length of the oil pipeline.                   demonstrate how the private sector can contribute to the fight against
                                                  HIV/AIDS.
                                                       HIV/AIDS is a countrywide concern in Cameroon. The rate of
                                                  prevalence has increased rapidly from 2 5 percent in 1996 to 7 7 percent in




                                                            44

        Cameroon                                                           Management Response




No. Claim/Issue     OD /
                    OP/ BP                                    Response:

                           1999 (UNAIDS estimates). The national strategy to fight HIV/AIDS, adopted
                           in 2000, recommends using existing channels to sensitize populations at
                           risk and communities. This strategy is supported by a USD 50 million IDA
                           credit, Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project, which became effective in
                           September 2001. Until recently, its implementation has been hampered by a
                           lack of coordination between the National Committee to Fight HIV/AIDS
                           (CNLS) and the Ministry of Health. The Bank has employed an international
                           consultant in the Cameroon Country Office specifically to advise the GOC
                           on this matter. Recent changes in the Ministry have speeded up
                           implementation.
                                The Pipeline Project has been identified as one of the priority channels
                           to fight HIV/AIDS in Cameroon, because of the increased risk generated by
                           construction activities, as outlined in the PAD (Annex 14, para. 41) and the
                           1999 EA/EMP (Cameroon Portion, Volume 2, Health Plan). COTCO and its
                           sub-contractors have implemented the Health Plan as it affects workers
                           (see details below). The CAPECE Project also includes a substantial health
                           component intended to assist the Ministry of Health in meeting its
                           responsibilities to protect the health of the communities surrounding the
                           pipeline. The component has been slow to start, due to poor coordination
                           between CPSP, CNLS, and the Ministry of Health. This issue was raised at
                           the highest level in a letter from the Country Director to the Chairman of
                           CPSP in January 2002. Following this letter, a newly appointed Minister of
                           Health took action to improve the management of HIV/AIDS activities
                           related to the Pipeline Project.
                                Action by the GOC has been concentrated in the pipeline areas of
                           Dompta, Kribi, Bélabo, Nanga Eboko, and Batchenga. Five health
                           specialists have been assigned to this agenda in the five provinces crossed
                           by the pipeline (as of July 2002), and a new health center has been built,
                           equipped, and staffed in Dompta (effective August 2002). To further
                           address the issue of coordination and to build on the proactive steps taken
                           by contractors, the GOC signed a Convention with COTCO on this subject
                           in 2002.
                                In accordance with the 1999 EA/EMP Health Plan, COTCO's Health,
                           Safety and Environment Department has implemented a health program, as
                           defined in the EMP, which requires that contractors provide medical
                           facilities for employees at all camps. Contractors regularly screen and treat
                           workers for curable sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), and conduct
                           programs of health education and immunization as well as condom
                           distribution. STDs are monitored through the Epidemiological Information
                           System and Sentinel Surveillance System established for workers. Health
                           units, primarily put in place for workers, have also benefited neighboring
                           communities in some cases, as reported by the ECMG. As a result,
                           awareness campaigns and condom distribution in the pipeline area have
                           reached a level of effectiveness above the national average.
                                It has been noted by the ECMG that baseline data to assess any
                           change in HIV/AIDS prevalence in the pipeline area do not exist. Prior to the
                           Pipeline Project, the only HIV/AIDS statistics available for the country came
                           from the Cameroon Sentinel Surveys, whose data could not be
                           disaggregated to the community level. Even today, raw data on the current
                           HIV/AIDS prevalence rate are not available. Since the Pipeline Project has
                           given a boost to the local economy, it is likely that there has been renewed
                           sexual activity, including prostitution, in the Project area, with accompanying
                           spread of STDs and increased vulnerability to HIV/AIDS. It would be
                           difficult, however, to distinguish any Project-related impact from the general
                           spread of HIV/AIDS in the country and in particular along the transportation
                           corridors closely paralleled by the pipeline.
                                Discussions during Bank supervision of the Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS
                           Project showed that prostitution had indeed increased along the pipeline,
                           but that this increase was mainly due to professional and relatively




                                       45

        Cameroon                                                          Management Response




No. Claim/Issue     OD /
                    OP/ BP                                   Response:

                           organized sex workers coming from urban areas, which makes it difficult for
                           prostitution of minors to take place. More broadly, the sensitization program
                           of the Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project, building on experience from the
                           United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), focuses primarily on
                           limiting and delaying first sexual relations of minors. It is based on a
                           "tantine" system whereby older women sensitize young girls, based on their
                           own experience. A convention is currently being prepared between CNLS,
                           GTZ, and two NGOs already involved in the pipeline compensation
                           consultation process, whereby the two NGOs will be in charge of this
                           sensitization effort along the pipeline, benefiting from technical assistance
                           provided by GTZ to implement this methodology. This activity is expected to
                           serve, among other things, as a means to limit the prostitution of minors
                           even further.
                                Building Government capacity to address HIV/AIDS in the Pipeline
                           Project area and elsewhere is a priority in the Bank country strategy and an
                           important element of the CAPECE Project. The Bank will continue to
                           monitor progress and provide support for intensified action against
                           HIV/AIDS and other diseases in the Project area. The prostitution of minors
                           is a serious concern which, as the IAG has noted, has legal and social
                           protection as well as health dimensions. The Bank will follow up on this
                           issue in the context of its broader poverty reduction dialogue with
                           Cameroon, and will use the Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project as one
                           appropriate channel to convey this message to the GOC.




                                     46

Cameroon                                                                                     Management Response




                                                ANNEX 2


              RESPONSES TO CLAIMS INVOLVING INDIVIDUAL CASES*

BAKOLA COMMUNITIES


1. Village 1

1A.Claim: Requestor 1A had a field of food crops which was destroyed without any
     compensation being paid to him.

     Response: Requestor 1A resides in another settlement, approximately ten kilometers
     from the settlement of Village 1 cited in the Request as his home village. However,
     he has a brother-in-law in Village 1. Prior to the initiation of construction in 2001 all
     twenty-three Bakola settlements were inventoried, using GPS, to measure surface
     areas of all planted fields. Requestor 1A was not identified as having a field in
     Village 1. He worked for COTCO's tree felling contractor as a laborer between
     December 2001 and January 2002.

1B.Claim: Requestor 1B had a field of manioc, yams, macabos, sweet potatoes, plantain
     bananas and other vegetables which has been destroyed without any compensation
     being paid to him.

     Response: COTCO has never identified this individual as one of the 700
     Bagyeli/Bakola in the twenty-three settlements along the pipeline corridor.

OTHER COMMUNITIES

2. Village 2

2A.Claim: Commercial trees (okoumé) planted by Requestor 2A were not at the outset
     considered as exploitation. In compliance with Cameroonian forest law, Requestor
     2A had had the volume and value of his wood assessed by the appropriate
     departments of the Ministry of Environment and Forests. The assessment reports,
     attached as an annex to the Request for Inspection, estimated the value of the wood as
     being between CFAF 1,500,000 and 6,500,000 (i.e., between USD 2,150 and
     USD 9,285). After several months of discussion, COTCO proposed a first payment of
     CFAF 300,000 (USD 428). Then, without further negotiation, COTCO offered an
     additional payment of CFAF 350,000 (USD 500) in cash and kind (particularly
     alcohol and food). Under the threat of administrative authority which accompanied
     the COTCO representative, Requestor 2A was obliged to sign a contract in which he
     acknowledged that the amount paid constituted "fair and genuine.... satisfactory and
     sufficient" compensation. No information has been provided as to the methods of
     calculating the amount of this compensation. Furthermore, the other terms of the

*The proper names in this Annex - which were made available to the Inspection Panel - have been changed to protect
the identities of the individuals concerned.



                                                      47

Cameroon                                                                   Management Response



   contract have not been respected by COTCO (promises to recruit for the Project
   young members of Requestor 2A's family, and the cutting of wood so that it would be
   useable by Requestor 2A). Lastly, eighty-one okoumé (seedlings) were excluded from
   the compensation calculation on the pretext that they were "wild" trees which had
   grown there naturally. It seems important to mention that okoumé is an exotic species
   in the region concerned and that the seedlings were produced by a fully grown seed-
   bearing tree which was destroyed by the route of the oil pipeline.

   Response: This is a complex issue. COTCO has always recognized that this
   individual planted six okoumé trees on the land that now is in the pipeline easement
   (he has planted others outside the easement also). The complexity arises from a legal
   issue. In Cameroon, the State controls the sale of all exotic/hardwood species.
   Concessions are provided to companies and communities to harvest species, with
   taxes payable to the State based on an annually updated rate structure. In this case
   Requestor 2A did not have the legal right to harvest or sell the okoumé trees. COTCO
   understood this dilemma and attempted to rectify it by paying him for the
   inconvenience caused him and his family. COTCO could not pay for the trees
   themselves. The amount paid was based on COTCO's estimate of what he or his
   family could realize from the "selling" of the trees. Based on the State rate structure,
   the FOB value of the 40 cubic meters was just over CFAF 1,500,000. COTCO
   assumed that the family would have to pay someone to cut, extract, and transport the
   logs. COTCO estimated that at best the family would be able to profit from 50
   percent of the FOB value. A total amount of CFAF 745,000 was paid to the family in
   three installments. In addition, the contractor sawed the fallen trees into planks for the
   family's use, as verified by a Bank supervision mission.
       Regarding the 81 okoumé excluded from the compensation, COTCO was not able
   to recognize them, for two reasons: (i) as they were seedlings that sprouted under the
   six okoumé adult trees, they had no commercial value at the time of evaluation (at the
   time of the pipeline CLS), and (ii) under normal agricultural practices the seedlings
   would need to be transplanted to new areas to ensure their healthy co-existence with
   existing trees. Requestor 2A has never been prohibited from transplanting the
   seedlings, an activity similar to when he obtained seedlings from an okoumé tree
   plantation south of his village in 1974.


3. Village 3

3A.Claim: A sizeable portion of Requestor 3's crops was not taken into account in
   calculating the amount of his individual compensation. He is being accused of
   making investments in his land after the course of the oil pipeline was decided.
   However, because of his concerns regarding the proximity of his house to the land
   acquired for the oil pipeline, COTCO agents had indicated to him that the course
   would be altered so that it went around his concession with the purpose of avoiding
   any displacement of populations. It was on the basis of these promises that he
   continued to exploit his land. In the end the course of the oil pipeline was not altered.
   What is more, a footbridge built by Requestor 3 so that he could get to his concession
   has been used by Pipeline Project employees during the construction work. He had



                                             48

Cameroon                                                                      Management Response



   been promised that the footbridge would be rebuilt, and that promise has not been
   honored. It has been completely destroyed by the COTCO agents, who abandoned it
   when they left. Requestor 3 has rebuilt it, and is demanding compensation.

3B.Claim: Requestor 3 has experienced difficulties for which he has not received
   compensation. For example, he suffered as a result of the significant extension of a
   swamp due to water retention in the ground in front of his house. The private
   footbridge leading to his house has been used without his permission. This resulted in
   it being destroyed. Requestor 3's house is situated 12 meters from the pipeline, in
   other words it is on the land acquired for the oil pipeline. The harmful effects of the
   noise of the bulldozers and of the dynamiting of rock lasted three months. Finally,
   Requestor 3's family has been exposed for three months to the radioactive effects of
   the welding of pipes.

   Response: Both of these claims refer to the same person. Regarding Requestor 3's
   crops, he received compensation for the crops he had at the time of the CLS. Any
   crops planted after this CLS are not compensated for. Because a portion of his house
   extended approximately one meter into the easement, it was originally intended to
   move the easement. On this basis Requestor 3 continued to plant crops on his holding.
   In the end the easement was not moved and he lost these crops. However, since these
   crops were planted after the CLS he was not, according to the law of Cameroon,
   entitled to compensation.
       Regarding the footbridge: Prior to the start of pipeline construction activity, an
   existing road, despite having three culverts, held back a swamp in the front of
   Requestor 3's property. He had built a footbridge to cross the swamp to his remaining
   property. After the construction of the pipeline across his property, Requestor 3
   requested a Project sub contractor to provide fill at the site of his footbridge. This fill
   covered most of the existing footbridge. This fill, while it did not entirely bridge the
   swamp, did significantly restrict the flow of water to the three culverts hence backing
   up the swamp. Requestor 3 received compensation to rebuild the wooden bridge.
       Noise clearly is an issue during the clearing of the right of way and the laying of
   pipe. Given that right of way clearing and laying of pipe was at a rate of
   approximately one kilometer per day, however, the time of his exposure was limited.
   Also, use of X-Rays is standard industry practice in testing pipe weld integrity. There
   were three welds in front of Requestor 3's house leading to a one minute exposure to
   the welders (3 x 20 second X-Rays ). Risk to the public from these X-Rays is
   negligible as they are not at the site of the activity. In any event, if there was a risk to
   Requestor 3 or his family, it would have been for an extremely brief duration, not for
   the three months cited above.

3C.Claim: Requestor 3C's family has lost all its agricultural land, which has been used
   for the construction of the pressure reduction station and a storage yard for equipment
   used by COTCO sub-contractors. Substantial quantities of laterite have been removed
   from these lands, which have also been used for training drivers of equipment for the
   Willbros Company. Crops belonging to the wife of the head of the Requestor 3C
   family have been destroyed without compensation being paid. The various uses to
   which the lands have been put in connection with the Pipeline Project have made
   them unfit for agriculture.


                                              49

Cameroon                                                                   Management Response



   Response: Requestor 3C's family did not lose all of its agricultural land due to the
   Pipeline Project. The family temporarily lost a plot adjacent to Project property and a
   plot along the easement. The family has several other plots in the area. The claim
   relates to the plot adjacent to Project property, not the one along the easement. The
   family was compensated for this temporary loss. The plot was initially used as a
   source of laterite for Project purposes. Requestor 3C's family received compensation
   for the laterite that was removed from its land. Later the plot was used for the
   concrete coating of pipe and side boom training. After completion of these activities
   the plot was returned to the family. As part of the compensation for the temporary
   loss of their plots the family was provided with young palms. They planted fifteen
   young palms on the plot adjacent to Project property. Unfortunately a sub-contractor
   inadvertently disposed of some material on their plot, destroying the fifteen young
   palms. A grievance has been filed with COTCO, which COTCO has acknowledged in
   writing. COTCO (at the time of the October 9, 2002 Bank supervision mission) was
   in the process of settling the matter.

4. Village 4

4A.Claim: Trees planted by Requestor 4A on land belonging to him have not been taken
   into account in the calculation of the individual compensation due to him. Requestor
   4A has documents establishing that he planted the contested trees himself. Thus, the
   exchanges of correspondence with ONADEF, the government agency responsible for
   forest development, attest to the fact that he bought seedlings from it and that experts
   visited his plantations on a number of occasions. Furthermore, COTCO has
   proceeded, on Requestor 4A's land and beyond the areas which had been the subject
   of expropriation on grounds of their public usefulness, to destroy crops which were
   not taken into account in calculating the amount of compensation he received.

   Response: This case remains unresolved in the Grievance Management Procedure.
   This case is similar to that of Requestor 2A in that Requestor 4A has planted a non-
   indigenous hardwood tree on his land. He planted these trees in his cacao plantation
   to serve as shade trees. Since the trees were registered as "natural resources" they
   were not subject to an additional compensation on COTCO's part. COTCO has
   received documents from Requestor 4A demonstrating that he planted them and
   COTCO is planning (at the time of the October 9, 2002 Bank supervision mission) to
   go to his village to discuss the issue and to propose paying for the trees as shade trees,
   which is a category that exists in the Pipeline Project Compensation Plan. This farmer
   received CFAF 783,000 (a little more than USD 1,100) in compensation for crops
   planted at the time of the CLS.

4B.Claim: As community compensation the inhabitants of Village 4 have a right to the
   sum of CFAF 1,950,000. Part of the village wants to finance a connection to the
   electricity network, and has money to finance the additional costs of this. COTCO is
   unfortunately opposed to the option by the village, which is not requesting that
   COTCO make additional financial efforts.

   Response: COTCO is not opposed to any community's use of community
   compensation. The Requestors are correct on the value of the compensation -



                                             50

Cameroon                                                                   Management Response



   CFAF 1,950,000. Connection to the electricity grid will cost several times more than
   the community's entitlement. COTCO has offered to provide a letter of credit in the
   amount of CFAF 1,950,000 on behalf of the community in support of its application
   for connection to the electricity grid.

4C.Claim: Requestor 4C has been in a hospital for the past six months because of serious
   pulmonary problems. He considers that these problems are due to the quantity of dust
   absorbed during the construction work. He is paying his medical costs himself.

   Response: COTCO is not aware of this case. However, construction near and through
   Village 4 took place during the rainy season, when free standing water, not dust, was
   the main characteristic at most construction sites. At the present time, there is no
   information to indicate that this isolated case of pulmonary illness is due to dust
   produced by Project construction.

5. Village 5

5A.Claim: The inhabitants of Village 5 want to use their community compensation
   money to finance a project to gain access to electricity. COTCO is trying to impose
   on them the construction of a traditional community hut, which would duplicate the
   one the village already has. Discussions are currently deadlocked.

   Response: This community wishes to use its community compensation to purchase a
   generator to produce electricity. The community compensation entitlement would
   cover the cost of purchase. However, the generator option does not meet the
   sustainability criteria for community compensation which was established at the
   outset of the compensation program. The recurring operation and maintenance costs
   could not be covered by the community. Since the proposed project does not meet the
   sustainability criteria COTCO has refused to support this in kind option.

5B.Claim: Requestor 5B's compensation was paid to another party. In spite of
   complaining, Requestor 5B has been obliged to share his compensation amount with
   his adversary, and the portion he received is almost equal to the cost of the
   proceedings he had to undertake to try to recover his rights.

   Response: In the Project impact area there are many cases where individuals are
   cultivating land that does not "belong" to them. However, the Pipeline Project has
   compensated the cultivator since it is their labor and livelihood that is temporarily
   impacted by the Project. This is the case in this instance. Requestor 5B had essentially
   abandoned his cacao plantation some twenty years ago in moving away and allowed
   family members (his sister-in-law - not the other party as cited in the Request) to
   continue to cultivate the cacao and plant other crops on his holding in order to make a
   living. Once Requestor 5B understood that a portion of his cacao plantation would be
   compensated he returned. COTCO initially resisted paying compensation to him since
   he was not dependent on the land for his livelihood. However, in the end, with the
   assistance of the Sub-Prefect for the area, an amicable solution was achieved and
   Requestor 5B and his sister-in-law were paid for their agreed shares.




                                             51

Cameroon                                                                   Management Response



6. Village 6

6A.Claim: The totality of tools and small equipments provided to the local populations as
   compensation in kind has been defective since the first few months of use. COTCO
   considers that it is for the local populations to take the matter up with the provider of
   the equipment, for which there was a six-month guarantee. The local populations say
   they were not informed that such a guarantee existed.

   Response: COTCO is aware of cases of sub-standard in kind compensation goods. As
   these have come to the attention of COTCO, every effort is being made to rectify the
   situation. For example, there were many individuals that complained about the quality
   of bicycles. COTCO bought all new bicycles for those individuals and gave them the
   option of turning in their old bicycle for a new one. In another example, COTCO has
   identified thirteen cases of land users who were dissatisfied with the motor operated
   grinders they received (eight due to problems with the machine and five who wanted
   a different type of grinder). COTCO has returned the thirteen grinders to the
   manufacturer for a diagnostic review. For the five cases where the users want a
   different type, the manufacturer has offered to exchange them for the type of grinder
   that they desire, assuming that there is no significant damage to the original grinder.
   The two different types of grinders are the same price, ensuring the land user stays
   whole on his/her compensation. Each of the eight cases of mechanical problems will
   be reviewed with the manufacturer to determine the root cause. Those that are the
   fault of the manufacturer will be replaced at no cost to the user. For those where the
   fault lies with utilization by the user, each case will be reviewed with COTCO
   management to determine what assistance can be provided to the user.


7. Village 7

7A.Claim: Requestor 7A, a 74-year old paralyzed illiterate, has not received fair
   compensation for his crops that have been destroyed. More than forty-six young palm
   trees have been destroyed by the oil pipeline without any compensation being paid.
   His request for additional compensation has not been dealt with.

   Response: This farmer received compensation for thirty-four young palm trees and
   twenty-five adult palm trees. The compensation was paid according to the official
   table. He thus received about USD 1,200.
       The number of palm trees registered in his file is based on a consensus between
   all the parties involved. Those involved in the counting included the COTCO
   representative, the Cameroon government representative (typically an agent from the
   Ministry of Agriculture), the village chief, and the land user or his/her representative.
   The four parties had to agree on the number of the different crops before they were
   transferred into the right of way file. The land user was then requested to sign the
   document attesting to this. After the initial count, the crop numbers were posted in the
   village asking each land user to verify the numbers prior to the arrival of the
   Verification and Valuation Commission. At the meeting of the Commission, each
   land user was called on and asked if they had anything to appeal. If the land user
   challenged the numbers posted, the Commission revisited the parcel of land to



                                              52

Cameroon                                                               Management Response



   recount. Whatever the Commission counted with the land user was then noted in the
   report and served as the basis for the subsequent compensation. This procedure was
   followed in the case of Requestor 7A.




                                            53

