                                    Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001549



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (TF-53940)



                                        ON A

                                   GRANT
                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.0 MILLION


                                         TO

                    THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

     FOR THE AFGHANISTAN CIVIL SERVICE CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                     May 5, 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
               AFGHANISTAN – GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR

                                21 March – 20 March

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 18, 2011)

                              Currency Unit = Afghani

                               AFN 1.00 = US$ 0.02
                               US$ 1.00 = AFN 45.38

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AEP      Afghan Expatriate Program                   IOM     International Organization
                                                             for Migration
AFMIS    Afghanistan Financial Management            LEP     Lateral Entry Program
         Information System
ANDS     Afghan National Development Strategy        M&E     Monitoring & Evaluation
ARS      Administrative Reform Secretariat           MAC     Ministerial         Advisory
                                                             Committee
ARTF     Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund       MAIL    Ministry of Agriculture,
                                                             Irrigation and Livestock
CDS      Capacity Development Secretariat            MCP     Management           Capacity
                                                             Program
CTAP     Civilian Technical Assistance Program       MDG     Millennium      Development
                                                             Goals
FMR      Financial Management Report                 OAA     Office of Administrative
                                                             Affairs
GDPDM    General Directorate of Programs’            PAR     Public         Administration
         Design & Management                                 Reform
GoA      Government of Afghanistan                   PDO     Project         Development
                                                             Objective
GoIRA    Government of Islamic Republic of           PRR     Priority              Reform
         Afghanistan                                         Restructuring
IAB      Independent Appointments Board              SDU     Special Disbursement Unit
IARCSC   Independent Administrative Reform &
         Civil Service Commission
IDA      International Development Association
IDLG     Independent Directorate for Local
         Governance


          Vice President:                   Isabel M. Guerrero, SARVP
          Country Director:                 Nicholas J. Krafft, SACAF
          Sector Manager:                   Joel Hellman, SASGP
          ICR Team Leader:                  Satyendra Prasad, SASGP
                                               AFGHANISTAN
                                   Afghanistan Civil Service Capacity Building




                                                          CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................... 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 20
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 20
 6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 22
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 23
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 25
 Annex 2. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................... 26
 Annex 3. Monitoring Indicators for LEP .............................................................................. 27
 Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 28
 Annex 5. Institutional Mechanism for Recruitment of AEP/LEP............................................. 31
 Annex 6. Assessment of LEPs and AEPs ................................................................................. 32
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 34
 Annex 8. ISR ratings ................................................................................................................. 45
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                        ARTF-Civil Service
Country:               Afghanistan              Project Name:
                                                                        Capacity Building
Project ID:            P086228                  L/C/TF Number(s):       TF-53940
ICR Date:              05/05/2011               ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                        GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    TAL                      Grantee:
                                                                        AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                       USD 13.0M                Disbursed Amount:       USD 13.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 13.0M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Independent Administrative Reform & Civil Service Commission
 IARCSC
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/14/2004    Effectiveness:                             06/05/2005
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/02/2005    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                  02/28/2010       02/28/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Grantee Performance:                            Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                       Ratings
                        Moderately                                      Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower             Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:                 Unsatisfactory




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     50                   50
General public administration sector                                  50                   50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Macroeconomic management                                              100                100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Nicholas J. Krafft                   Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Joel Hellman                         Kapil Kapoor
Project Team Leader:       Satyendra Prasad                     Anne Tully
ICR Team Leader:           Satyendra Prasad
ICR Primary Author:        Satyendra Prasad


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Providing short to medium term capacity to ministries primarily in agencies where the
PRR effort has been slow to take off.
  Laying the foundation for the reform process in ministries and government agencies,
which are currently not under the PRR process.
  Training, mentoring and motivating regular post holders to work more efficiently and
more effectively for the government, providing an alternative to the continued extensive
use of technical assistance and consultants

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                                documents)        Values        Target Years
                  Number of lateral entrants recruited
                  i) women
Indicator 1 :
                  ii) men
                  iii) ethnicities
Value
quantitative or   0                        150                                142
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/04/2002               02/28/2010                         02/28/2010
Comments
                  The MCP program succeeded AEP-and LEP program and thus recruitment was
(incl. %
                  stopped in 2008.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Pace of implementation of reforms in LEP vs. non # LEP departments
                No baseline and no
                systematic efforts to
                                         Departments with                 20 departments
Value           assess. See ICR for
                                         LEP’s would have                 with LEP’s
quantitative or observations which
                                         completed PRR                    completed the PRR
Qualitative)    suggest LEP’s did make
                                         process                          process.
                positive impact under
                specific circumstances.
Date achieved 07/04/2002                 02/28/2010                       02/28/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                The capacity of existing civil servants to apply for PRR positions will be
Indicator 1 :
                enhanced
                                                                              35 departments
                At least 20 departments
                                                                              across 10 ministries
                with LEP’s went through All Departments
Value                                                                         completed stage 1
                the PRR process.           will have
(quantitative                                                                 of PRR; of which
                Difficult to independently completed stage 1
or Qualitative)                                                               20 commenced
                verify the extent of LEP of PRR process.
                                                                              implementation of
                involvement in these.
                                                                              the reforms.
Date achieved 07/04/2002                   02/28/2010                         02/28/2010
Comments


                                                 iii
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                         DO                    IP          Disbursements
        Archived
                                                              (USD millions)
  1    06/26/2008       Satisfactory          Satisfactory             11.98
  2    03/16/2009       Satisfactory          Satisfactory             12.69
                        Moderately            Moderately
  3    03/01/2010                                                      13.00
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                        iv
1.            Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In the wake of the international intervention of 2001, the fall of the Taliban regime, and the
establishment of an Interim Administration by the Bonn Agreement, Afghanistan faced a
reconstruction effort of immense proportions. The challenge of rebuilding the state’s collapsed
central and sub-national administrative apparatus was made all the more acute by severe capacity
deficits in the civil service. After more than two decades of civil war, almost all of the educated
Afghan elite had emigrated, a process that accelerated after the fall of the Najibullah regime, the
war which disrupted organized life in Kabul in the early 1990s, and the arrival of the Taliban
regime in 1996. As a result, a significant part of the country’s highly educated population was
living in North America, Europe, Pakistan and Iran by 2002. Of those who remained in
Afghanistan, many skilled Afghans were working for international organizations, donor-funded
projects or programs, non-governmental organizations or the private sector rather than
government, which provided very little in the way of incentives to attract skilled personnel. As in
many other post-conflict and developing country environments, donors and international agencies
had created a highly distorted labor market that severely disadvantaged the government as an
employer.

Expertise for the reconstruction effort was being introduced primarily through donor- funded
purchase of foreign technical assistance and consulting services. Despite the high cost of such
technical assistance in Afghanistan when compared to other countries, it was widely
acknowledged to be very poor both in terms of quality of the services provided and knowledge
transfer, an issue that had attracted the government’s attention at the highest level. Beyond the
standard criticisms addressed to foreign consulting services,1 their quality/cost ratio seemed
unfavorable compared to other countries. 2 At the same time, many Afghans living abroad had
been considering returning to Afghanistan to contribute to the reconstruction effort, and had
strong family and cultural ties in the country, but faced considerable financial and personal risks
in returning. There was considerable pressure from a range of donors for a mechanism through
which some of this existing Afghan expertise in the diaspora could be injected into the
Afghanistan civil service early during the emergency phase of the reconstruction effort. This was
seen as a more satisfactory means of injecting short-term ad hoc capacity than through foreign
providers of technical assistance, who faced the inevitable challenges of language and culture
quite aside from any other shortcomings. There was also an acknowledged need to draw from
existing expertise in Afghanistan within donor agencies NGOs and the private sector.

Both the Afghan Expatriates Program (AEP) and the Lateral Entry Program (LEP), initiated in
2002 and 2004 respectively, were conceived during the emergency phase of reconstruction and
were designed to inject a critical mass of capacity from two separate labor markets: (i) expatriate
Afghan labor and (ii) international agencies, NGOs and the private sector within the local labor
market and the immediate region (Iran and Pakistan). The programs aimed at enabling
government to compete for scarce Afghan capacity by funding (at competitive rates of pay) and
placing highly qualified Afghans in advisory positions (AEP) and civil service line positions
(LEP) respectively. The aim was that those recruits would help plan and implement the
development agenda, as well as contribute to the capacity development of existing civil servants

1 Short term assignments and high turnover of staff, difficulty to work in the local environment, language and cultural barriers, lack of transfer of knowledge.
2 Serge Michailof, Review of AEP, 2006.




                                                                                   1
and support basic institutional reform of the ministries and government departments in which
they worked.

The AEP and LEP were not isolated efforts. They were innovative efforts to rebuild the civil
service architecture commenced soon after the Bonn Conference in December 2001 and at a time
of considerable uncertainty. The Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service
Commission (IARCSC) was established in 2003 with an expansive mandate, including an overall
policy role, the development of a meritocratic recruitment process and coordinating a broader
Public Administration Reform program.3 The Priority Reform and Restructuring (PRR) program
was established in 2003 as a means of encouraging skilled staff to remain in the civil service in
departments that had undergone initial administrative reform. It was implemented through the
IARCSC and aimed at linking the civil service pay with a comprehensive restructuring of selected
departments and units.4 The PRR “superscale” offered higher salaries to suitably qualified staff
in strategically selected positions.5 Within the Bank’s program, there were also other efforts
relating to civil service and public administration reform initiated in 2004 and 2005. 6

The AEP program proposal was approved in 2002 by the Management Committee of the
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). Administered by the World Bank, ARTF
provided a coordinated financing mechanism for the Government of Afghanistan budget as well
as priority sector and investment projects and programs; a large part of its recurrent window was
used to support salaries for non-uniformed civil servants.7 Originally the AEP was introduced
under the recurrent window of the ARTF and the ARTF Management Committee allocated U$5
million to the program in 2003. This recurrent window finances recurrent expenditures such as
salaries and operation and maintenance in the Government‘s budget. (A further US$5 million
was allocated to AEP in 2006.) An initial recruitment of 60 expatriates into positions as senior
advisers was anticipated, for contracts of between 6 months and 2 years, and compensation was to
be in the range of US$ 2500-7000.8 The advisers would hold short-term World Bank contracts.
There were significant delays before the program began to be implemented, in part reflecting
resistance amongst senior government figures about the prospect of returning Afghans being paid
well in excess of mainstream civil servants.

The initial government counterpart for AEP was the Ministry of Refugees and Repatriation, a
keen interlocutor but one which did not have any capacity to manage the program. The
Presidential Decree that eventually established the program was promulgated in March 2004, and
designated the IARCSC as the implementing agency. As the IARCSC was a newly established
institution with limited staff and capacity, it was decided that an Implementation Support
Consultant would be contracted, with the role of providing logistical support in the recruitment
process including advertising vacancies, preparing individual contracts and managing salary
payments. The International Organization for Migration was subsequently contracted for this role
in a single bid procurement process. The first AEP contract was not signed until September 2004.

3 The reform program was broad: establishing a civil service legal framework, personnel management, institutional and functional streamlining and development,
financial management and accountability, policy management and machinery, administrative efficiency and physical infrastructure development.
4 The latter was to be underpinned by a transparent, competency-based recruitment and selection process for vital staff in both management and technical areas,
aimed at attracting well-qualified and competent individuals. However, the decision in 2004 to broaden the PRR to cover not only the original strategically selected
departments and units, but whole ministries, changed the nature of the PRR.
5 The main difference is that the PRR superscale does not target whole units or departments but individuals
6 P084188 and P096929.
7 It is a recipient-executed multi-donor trust fund and has made the largest contribution to the Afghan budget since 2002. Since early 2002, 30 donors have
contributed over US$3 billion as of April 20 2009
8 In theory, three inputs are supposed to be factored into the determination of compensation packages for the expatriates. These are : (i) educational qualification; (ii)
previous position held, and (iii) previous salary.




                                                                                    2
During the delay of nearly two years, a number of highly qualified expatriates returned to the
country under the auspices of other donor programs, including those of UNDP and USAID.

The LEP was prepared in parallel (during the period that AEP was facing the implementation
delay), and was aimed at addressing the widespread shortage of competent and experienced civil
servants in upper and middle management positions in key ministries and agencies. It aimed at
providing a mechanism for lateral recruits to fill line positions in the civil service, through
tapping into the reservoir of well-qualified, experienced and competent Afghans from NGOs, UN
agencies, donor-funded programs, and the private sector and those working in the countries in the
immediate region (Pakistan, Iran and India). The program was designed to cut the connection
between the international funding and the selected candidate by offering contracts signed by
Government for those line positions. It was anticipated that an initial 100 lateral entrants would
be recruited in the first six month pilot phase, and an additional 1400 individuals would be
recruited during the life of the project. The selected individuals were to be recruited at civil
service grades 2-4 on two year contracts attracting an enhanced salary of up to US$2000 a month.
In late 2004, the ARTF Management Committee approved the Lateral Entry Program (LEP) and
allocated US$3 million as an immediate commitment to enable the IARCSC to recruit 100 lateral
entrants in the first six months. The funding request for the overall program (1500 recruits) was
for US$64.7million.

In 2005, both programs were merged into a single project, Afghanistan Civil Service Capacity
Building Project, as they were seen to play a complementary role in contributing to the capacity
building framework for the civil service. AEP was taken out of the recurrent window of the
ARTF and combined with the Lateral Entry Program (LEP) in its investment window. The trust
fund grant agreement was signed in May 2005, with a financing amount of US$13 million.

In the three and a half years that had lapsed between the Bonn Conference and the signing of the
grant agreement, much had occurred in terms of re-establishing de jure central political and
administrative authority in Afghanistan. In January 2004, Afghanistan’s Loya Jirga adopted a
new Constitution, and by the year’s end, a presidential election had been held, resulting in the
election of Hamid Karzai to the Presidency. Parliamentary and provincial elections were held in
September 2005. By the time the Project was being implemented “in full swing”, the emergency
period of reconstruction was over.

As indicated, the two programs that comprise this project were funded by the ARTF, a recipient-
executed trust fund administered by the World Bank. There were substantial changes to
procedures related to the administration of trust funds during the life of the project. The old OP
14.40 and BP 14.40 governed the project prior to July 2008. Under those rules, each Vice
Presidential Unit was accountable for the trust funds it administers, establishing both its internal
control and monitoring and financial administration procedures to ensure the Bank fulfills its
obligations. Since 1 July 2008, projects financed by recipient-executed trust-funds, with a
financing amount over US$5million, are subject to the same Bank operational policies that are
applicable to IBRD loans and IDA credits.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

Identifying the development outcomes and key indicators proved to be something of a challenge
in the case of the AEP component of the program. There is virtually no supporting documentation
filed in IRIS or the Bank’s trust fund reporting site about the genesis of AEP, nor are such records
available through the IARCSC or the ARTF Management Committee. Indeed, both the Michailof
(2005, 2006) and Prashant (2006) reviews noted that a good part of the initial project documents


                                                 3
regarding AEP had disappeared, soon after it had commenced. The missing documentation
includes the original project proposal to the ARTF. Because the initial project was developed
through the recurrent ARTF window, the normal range of Bank documentation was not required.
There was no breach of Bank procedures therefore.

Thus there is little clarity about initial development objectives. Those that are mentioned below
have been identified (or “pieced together”) from secondary sources, often produced many years
after the approval of the program. Some of these sources9 define AEP’s operational objectives
intuitively and identify means rather than objectives as such: for instance, “to recruit around 60
highly qualified expatriate Afghans advisers for a period of six months to two years to work in
government ministries and agencies”.10

A number of reviews undertaken of the programs in 2005 and 2006, the submission of the
IARCSC (the implementing agency), and reports submitted to ARTF from 2008 onwards suggest
AEP recruitment had a number of development objectives:
     i. enhancing strategic capacity within relevant line ministries and agencies;
    ii. building local capacity/ promoting human resource development;
  iii. promoting institutional reforms within relevant agencies to enhance organization
          efficiency;
   iv. acting as drivers for the implementation of public investment programs viz formulating
          and managing priority development programs.

One review of the program undertaken in 2006 by Serge Michailof includes an additional
objective:
        “another objective which had not been clearly spelled out when the AEP project was
        designed has also progressively emerged: it is to facilitate the permanent return of
        members of the educated elite (i) by covering part of the financial risks and the transition
        costs supported by these professionals if they decide to move back and (ii) helping them
        identify structures and institutions where their skills might be efficiently employed.11

While many reviews have indicated that neither LEP nor AEP should be viewed in isolation from
the much broader public administration reform process, only LEP’s development objectives are
situated within such a framework.

The LEP is a much better documented program, and identifies the underlying objectives of its
recruitment process as follows:
     i. Providing short to medium term capacity to ministries primarily in agencies where the
          PRR effort has been slow to take off;
    ii. Laying the foundation for the reform process in ministries and government agencies,
          which are currently not under the PRR process;
   iii. Training, mentoring and motivating regular post holders to work more efficiently and
          more effectively for the government, providing an alternative to the continued
          extensive use of technical assistance and consultants.

None of the documentation identifies any key indicators apart from numbers of recruits
anticipated to be targeted by the program. Nor were benchmarks developed during the life of the
project relating to measurable improvements in outcomes.

9 Lateral Entry Program, Proposal to ARTF, 2004.
10 In a review conducted in 2006, Prashant mentions that the 60 experts were to be the first batch of the intake, which would go up to 200 in due course.
11 Serge Michailof, 2006.




                                                                                  4
A Development Objective (DO) for the project as a whole, as opposed to its two components, is
not mentioned in the documentation until the 2008 annual report to ARTF, where it is stated that
the project aims “to meet the short-term capacity needs of the Afghan Civil Service through two
inter-related programs: the Afghanistan Expatriate Program (AEP) and the Lateral Entry Program
(LEP).”

It is important to note the disconnect between the DO ratings in the last Implementation Status
Report (ISR) approved before closing of the project and in the Implementation Completion and
Results Report (ICR). This is explained in paragraph. 3.2.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

There were no revisions in the PDOs of ARTF – Civil Service Capacity Building.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of the AEP and LEP were to be the Government ministries, agencies
and departments whose capacity to plan, design, implement and monitor reconstruction efforts
and deliver the development agenda were sought to be enhanced by the program through the
injection of capacity. The individual AEP recruits who were effectively repatriated to
Afghanistan through the program were secondary beneficiaries, as were the lateral recruits who
were brought into government through LEP. Finally, donor agencies were also beneficiaries of
this program to a greater extent than with most other development programs – their programming
across all sectors depended on having skilled counterparts in various ministries, something which
was virtually absent at the beginning of the reconstruction effort.

1.5 Original Components

This Project involves two components, one of which had previously existed as a program funded
out of the recurrent window of ARTF. AEP was merged into this project under the investment
window of ARTF in 2005:
(i)     The Afghan Expatriates Program - US$10 million (US$5million allocated in 2003,
        another US$5 million in February 2006).

This component aimed at recruiting qualified expatriate Afghans into positions as senior advisers
in various ministries and agencies. Placement of those advisors was determined through
consultations with key ministries, government departments and donors.

(ii) Lateral Entry Program - US$3 million: This component aimed at recruiting qualified
Afghans from the domestic and regional labor markets into senior and middle management line
positions in Ministries and agencies.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised during the implementation of the project.

1.7 Other significant changes




                                               5
Following a number of reviews and an internal assessment, a decision was made in late 2006 not
to seek further ARTF funding for AEP or any Phase II of the LEP, but rather utilize the lessons
learned to formulate a new program intervention call the Management Capacity Program (MCP).
At that point, 138 LEPs and 98 AEPs had been recruited and their contracts remained valid until
their expiration.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of
earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations identified, and adequacy of
participatory processes, as applicable)

There is a considerable contrast between the preparation processes for the two components of the
project. AEP was conceived early on in Afghanistan’s reconstruction with considerable pressure
from donor countries who wanted a mechanism to repatriate qualified Afghans to contribute to
the reconstruction effort. As indicated above, there is virtually no available documentation about
the genesis, formulation or design of the program. It appears from interviews that the specifics of
the mechanism through which AEP repatriated expertise from the diaspora was secondary, and
the program’s nexus to a civil service or public administration rationale did not feature
prominently in the process of its formulation.

While specific public sector management expertise does appear to have been brought to bear on
the preparation and design of the project, the initial TTLs were mainly drawn from the Human
Development Sector and the Country Management Unit. No peer review process was undertaken
in the Bank as the procedures at the time required only that the proposal be assessed by the
Management Committee of the ARTF. However, the lack of any clear statement of the
development objectives attest to the absence of quality control mechanisms that a proper peer
review process would have provided.

The design of AEP does not appear to have been revisited after the delay of almost two years. By
that stage, the emergency period of reconstruction was almost over, and some of the expatriates
initially targeted by the program had returned to Afghanistan under the auspices of other donor
programs. Supporting expatriates to return to Afghanistan immediately after the end of the
conflict may have been helpful when few other options were available, but when a larger pool of
qualified expertise existed in Afghanistan and the region, retaining “country of origin” as a
principle in recruitment and payment for expertise is more open to question.

The Presidential Decree establishing the program was issued in March 2004. It allowed for
ministries and government agencies, based on their needs, to request the IARCSC to recruit
expatriate Afghans. The final selection was to have been made by a Ministerial Advisory
Committee for Administrative Reform (MAC), established under article 30(2) of the IARCSC
regulations. However, by 2006, MAC had become dysfunctional for reasons not linked to this
program but this meant that a broader ministerial oversight of AEP and LEP was replaced by a
narrower IARCSC oversight. Program management was the responsibility of members of an
Executive Committee who were mandated to be AEP recruits, generating concerns about a
conflict of interest. Thus, although the risks of patronage and corruption were obvious at the
outset, the governance structure itself did little to allay those risks (see further Implementation at
2.2 below). The focus appears to have been on controlling fiduciary risks through supervision in
individual recruitments rather than addressing these issues in the process of design.




                                                  6
As the IARCSC was a newly established institution at the time that the program came into
operation, with limited staff and capacity, the decision was made to contract an Implementation
Support Consultant to provide logistical support in the recruitment process (including advertising
vacancies, preparing individual contracts and managing salary payments).

LEP was prepared by a public sector specialist and was the subject of considerable consultation.
The program was peer reviewed in December 2004, with the major issues of concern raised by
review relating to the fiscal sustainability of the program. Its design appears to have taken into
account the broader context: the LEP program was designed to complement other schemes to
secure additional qualified capacity within government, especially the PRR. The design also
appeared to recognize the need for a critical mass of capacity to be injected if there was to be
meaningful improvement in development outcomes. The original proposal was        12 to recruit 1500
qualified Afghan professionals 13 under the program, with 500 in the first year, and 100 lateral
entrants in the first six months.

2.2      Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project
at Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable)

As indicated above, there appears to have an under-estimation of the sensitivity of paying
international salaries to returning expatriates and the wage differential that was created – senior
civil servants and Ministers expressed deep concerns, which delayed the political decision to
move ahead with implementation by almost two years. This was especially controversial because
the pay and grading reforms which would have placed civil servants on a more reasonable salary
structure than the one that prevailed at the time was too slow off the drawing board. A greater
focus on initiating the civil service wide pay and grading reforms would have gone far to allay
such concerns and resentment.

AEP was implemented by the IARCSC’s Administrative Reform Secretariat (ARS), which in turn
was to oversee an Executive Committee of 5 persons, all of whom were mandated to be AEP
consultants (as it transpired, three of the five members were AEP consultants for the IARCSC).
The Executive Committee was supported by a managing firm, the International Organization for
Migration (IOM), which provided the program’s administrative functions. The process of
selection of Afghan expatriates commenced when a Ministry or agency requisitioned an expert
from the ARS. The Executive Committee decided on admissibility and necessity, and prepared
TOR and requisition forms for such an expert. IOM advertised the position and applications
were received by the AEP Secretariat and reviewed by the Executive Committee. Short-listed
candidates were interviewed by the Executive Committee and the selection sent to the Chairman
of the IARCSC for approval. The dissolution of Ministerial Advisory Committee meant that there
was no layer of accountability after the IARCSC. After approval, the expert was contacted by
IOM and brought into the country. IOM arranged a meeting between the expert and the
employing organization and was responsible for disbursement of emoluments, travel
arrangements and the provision of equipment such as computers.

From an operational perspective, the mechanics of the recruitment process provided for in the
program’s guidelines were consistent with the World Bank’s Guidelines for the Selection and

12 In December 2004, the ARTF Management Committee was requested to approve U$14.2 million to fund the first year’s planned number of 500 lateral entrants.
13 It was anticipated that a specialist HR firm would assist with this expansion. The expansion also entailed submitting another proposal for the ARTF Management
Committee to increase the funding to US$ 64.7 million over 4 years to recruit 1,500 lateral entrants. However, due to delays in the recruitment of the initial 100
lateral entrants, and based upon the recommendations of several reviews, the expansion was not funded. Rather the program was reformulated as the subsequent
Management Capacity Program (MCP).




                                                                                   7
Employment of Consultants. However, there is evidence of various attempts by Ministries and
those at the highest levels of political office to influence the individual appointment processes.

Both the Government of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (GoIRA) and the Bank agreed that
IOM’s poor performance as supporting consultant partly accounted for delays in mobilization of
AEP consultants. Its contract was not renewed when it expired in August 2006. 14

Although the two programs were both under the supervision of IARCSC, the LEP had its own
management structure and resources. LEP was originally aimed at recruiting 1500 individuals
over a 2-3 year period, through the Independent Appointments Board (IAB)15 of the IARCSC.
The needs assessment for a lateral entrant took place once a request was forwarded to the
IARCSC by individual ministries. The IAB was in charge of advertising posts, liaising with
ministries to draft terms of reference for lateral entrants and identifying potential candidates and
hiring them. Detailed procedures to hire and manage lateral entrants were described in the
Project Implementation Manual. It was intended that in the second phase of LEP, a firm would
be recruited to manage the increased load of lateral entrants and increase the outreach of the
project. MAC was to have provided ministerial oversight to the project, and final approval for
commencement of recruitment based on the evaluation and technical assessment for each set of
applications by the ARS.

Several evaluations of AEP and LEP were undertaken during the implementation phase.
Michailof reviewed AEP soon after it came into operation in 2005. At around the same time,
NORAD financed a review of LEP by Thor Oftedal. In the first half of 2006, Prashant reviewed
the program and emphasized that the implementation of the program deviated markedly from the
de jure structures established by Article 3 of the IARCSC notification. He identified a number of
significant weaknesses and recommended to halt the project. Michailof was brought back to
undertake a review in light of Prashant’s critique. While he shared several doubts and concerns
with Prashant, he saw a number of positive elements and possibilities to easily correct many of
the most obvious flaws in the project design and its implementation mechanisms. The reviews
were considered by the ARTF management committee in November 2006.

The existence of two programs of a similar nature running in parallel created confusion,
unnecessary costs and questions about the relevance of their original objectives. Other major
issues from the reviews included the following design issues:

          i. The relevance of retaining “country of origin” as a principle in the recruitment and
              payment of expertise as the pool of qualified expertise had grown.

          ii.AEP advisors in practice tended to function in the same manner as LEP recruits, largely
              because their ministries required managers rather than advisors. As such, the two
              programs did not make significantly distinct contributions that justified their
              separation.

          iii. Considering that progress that had been made in implementing reforms under the PRR,
               which covered as many as 18 of 24 ministries by that stage, the rationale for limiting


14 The curious choice as support consultant of the International Agency of Migration, an international organization specializing in the organized transfer of migrants
and refugees, can be explained if one sees the repatriation rationale of the project.
15 The IARCSC Decree (Number 33) of 2003 establishes the IAB as an independent agency responsible for appointments and promotions in the Afghan civil
service, consisting of 5 full time commissioners and supported by its own secretariat.




                                                                                        8
                 the role of LEP recruits to ministries that had not undergone the “PRR process”
                 became largely redundant.

          iv. The management and administrative requirements and procedures of both AEP and
              LEP were very similar but managed by two separate teams; one (LEP) was essentially
              national and the other (AEP) was based on a loosely structured Executive Committee
              of senior AEP recruits supported by a consultant.

Quite aside from structural issues, the reviews indicated problems in the implementation
mechanisms. They noted with regards AEP that insufficient oversight of the project by the
IARCSC was apparent, especially in the early period. A blurred organizational structure and
critical lack of capacity were identified as the causes. The governance structure of AEP was also
a cause of considerable concern, particularly the potential conflict of interest of members of the
Executive Committee.16

Further, there were issues related to patronage and political influence in the recruitment
processes. AEP secretariat staff interviewed confirmed that the AEP had apparently been able to
resist routine pressures coming from officials in ministries for recruitment of AEP staff based on
patronage, ethnic and political affiliation. However, in a few and highly visible cases instances
they were clearly unable to do so. Prashant’s review indicated that “such imposed appointments
and the inability of the EC to resist those pressures and to apply adequate selection processes had
therefore tarnished the credibility of the project”.17

Due to the “accurate perception of the reputational risk for the Bank, lack of trust in the
governance structure, constant politically driven requests coming from the President’s office and
a lack of appropriate M&E mechanisms,” Michailof indicated that the Bank was “now largely
involved in micromanaging this very small operation through a systematic no objections
process.” He highlighted the consequences of such a time-intensive process, including the
unreasonable administrative cost compared to the size of the project, the real burden to staff, and
the transfer of de facto managerial responsibility to the Bank.

AEP also suffered from several other problems in implementation:

        i. It was under-funded, partly the result of constant uncertainty about the future of the
             project almost from the moment it began. In mid 2006, Michailof indicated that “out of
             the 9.4m which had been earmarked for its second phase (US$7m from ARTF and
             US$2.4m by USAID), only US$1.2m has been released,” and there was too much
             uncertainty regarding the future funding arrangements for the project to attract high
             quality staff. 18



16 There are differing views on the governance structure of AEP. Prashant took the view that it presented a substantial potential for conflict of interest, and that it
was ineffective in the face of political interference. Michailof was skeptical about the structure on paper, but his fears were somewhat allayed by meeting the five
members of its executive committee, and concluded “while highly unorthodox and presenting risks, the present governance structure of this very small project is not

only acceptable but maybe a good approach in    the specific Afghan context”. However, it transpired that regardless of the risks of patronage, the insufficient
availability of its members to make it work in a satisfactory way – due to illness, absence from the country,   departure of members. As a result, the
Executive Committee’s control and monitoring of the project was inadequate.
17   Michailoff, 2006.
18   He indicated that project management lost time on renegotiating contracts on a 2 or 3 month basis, a poor use of its time and a cause
of stress for the recruits. Michailof indicated “until a formal decision has been made to stop this project, AEP should be fully funded”.




                                                                                    9
        ii. Compensation was largely determined by intuitive and subjective assessment of the
              utility of expatriates although previous pay was somewhat kept in mind, but not in all
              cases. The Executive Committee did not employ objective criteria in the process.
       iii. Implementation often deviated from the de jure structure established in the Notification
              of the IARCSC, and the regulations were never amended to reflect this. The
              notification required that recruits act as advisors. The program was designed to
              provide for supervisory supplements to line administration and had an exceptional
              provision19 for ad hoc placement of expatriates in ‘line’ positions. However, this
              principle was frequently violated. The commissioned reviews reported that most of the
              ‘influential’ expatriates, while enjoying the designation of advisors on paper, were
              actually performing executive tasks in line positions as well.20

On the World Bank side, there were frequent changes of the Task Team Leader during the life of
the project. They were drawn from different sectors: Human Development, Country Management
as well as from amongst public sector specialists within the PREM group. After the 2006 reviews
had been finalized, a new Kabul-based public sector specialist was put in place as TTL and this
brought far greater stability to the program.

The response to the major points made in these reviews was to focus on designing the successor
project, the Management Capacity Program (MCP). The results of the two reviews and
subsequent discussions with authorities (Ministry of Finance and IARCSC) suggested the need
for a unified program that would follow a single set of criteria for identifying requirements,
recruitment, remuneration and supervision. The grant funding for MCP was approved in
February 2007 and the grant agreement signed in June of the same year. There was much greater
efforts invested in designing the MCP to address the areas most wanting in AEP and LEP,
including: articulation of expected results; a single management structure managing the program
with a single set of standards; and “strategic targeting” of priority areas closely related to
operating requirements.

Once MCP was approved, fiduciary monitoring continued for the remaining appointments made
under the ARTF – Capacity Building, but no further efforts were made to adjust that project in
light of the problems that the reviews identified. Indeed, the project effectively fell into a
“holding pattern” in which the remaining hires continued to be paid, but all new appointments
were made through the MCP.

No second phase of LEP was developed as initially anticipated. No revisions were made to the
original project documents based on the experiences from the pilot phase. In retrospect, the
combined AEP and LEP project should have been closed upon the approval of MCP and those
staff appointed under the program should have been migrated to the new project.

2.3          Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
             (focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

When the combined Project was initiated in 2005, it was agreed that monitoring would be
conducted using a mix of qualitative techniques. Regular case-studies were planned to capture the

19 “In   exceptional circumstances, Ministries and Government Agencies may request EC to assign an expert as acting head of a
department in a position relevant to his/her expertise and experience.”
20   Prashant said that the performers are in critical and apical line positions (Deputy Ministers, Director Generals, Deputy Chief of
Staff to President of Afghanistan, Presidents & CEOs of public sector companies).




                                                                     10
qualitative benefits of the project. The performance of the recruits was to be regularly assessed by
superiors in the ministries/agencies/departments where the expatriates and lateral entrants were
placed. IARCSC was encouraged to undertake independent evaluations as well. The aim of such
evaluations was to assess (i) the relative success of the overall Program and (ii) to determine the
performance of the employees vis-a-vis the work assigned to them and their job descriptions.
IARCSC conducted regular individual appraisals of recruits with some terminations based upon
poor performance. However, implementation of monitoring mechanisms for the program as a
whole was limited. Further, in relation to AEP, it was constrained by the involvement of an
Executive Committee which comprised, in part, of expatriates themselves funded under the
program.

Michailof made a number of salient points in his review about AEP:

       i. It was impossible to assess the project’s impact and performance unless an in-depth
            assessment of the effective performance of experts was made. The small number AEP
            contracts made such an assessment feasible. However, this could be done through
            standard paperwork or internal monitoring. Michailof suggested it required a “highly
            experienced international consultant with HR            managerial experience to visit
            Afghanistan twice a year to conduct individual interviews with 30 or 40 experts and
            their supervisors each time. Unless such close monitoring was undertaken, he argued
            that it would be impossible to properly assess the project’s impact and performance.

       ii. In establishing an M&E system, Michailof recognized that success cannot only be related
             to the individual recruit’s qualities but also to his working environment. Hence the
             need for a “strategic” allocation of experts where their skill would most likely be fully
             utilized and not necessarily to support the most vocal minister. Also, the project
             needed to be able to correct mistakes made in appointment or selection (ie its ability to
             shift experts from one entity to another where skills would be better utilized or to
             terminate a contract in case of unsatisfactory performance).
      iii. Judgment about the success of the approach should be determined by magnitude of
             impact of the individual success stories, rather than of the overall number of positions
             placed. Michailof cited a senior advisor who played a crucial role in designing and
             driving successful restructuring and overhaul of MRRD, which completely transformed
             that ministry. The economic and institutional impact of the expert’s activity over a
             critical 2 year period was substantial.

2.4       Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

As with other emergency projects in Afghanistan, records were maintained manually at both the
implementing agency (IARCSC) and the Special Disbursement Unit (SDU) from inception until
March 2005, when the SDU started using the Afghanistan Financial Management Information
System for all projects and line ministries’/agencies’ financial transactions. Supporting
documents were maintained satisfactorily for all payments. Fund flows to all implementing
agencies were controlled centrally by the MOF’s SDU, and were managed satisfactorily since the
project began.

Financial reporting was initially poor but improved over time, as the financial management
capacities in the MoF improved. The Financial Management Reports (FMRs) were prepared and
submitted regularly since the 1st quarter of SY1386. Annual audited financial statements were
submitted regularly, though later than the mandated submission deadline, except for SY 1388
which was submitted on August 31, 2010, before the due date of September 21, 2010.


                                                  11
The audit opinion of the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan was qualified for SY1384 and
1385 and unqualified for SY1386, SY1387 and SY1388. The response on issues raised in the
SY1387 audit report has yet to be provided by the client.

With regards to procurement, the project’s focus was mainly in providing consulting inputs. The
client lacked capacity to: (i) prepare and update procurement plans and (ii) undertake contract
management actions, such as extensions, in a timely manner. International Development
Association (IDA) had to agree on post facto clearances several times. There were no other major
issues, although the practice of providing no objections to individual contracts was challenging
and time-intensive for the Bank. The lessons were considered during the preparation of MCP.
One complaint had been registered with the Bank (Kabul Office and INT) regarding credentials
of a consultant.

A financial management review was done in September 2010, which included transaction review
of the project’s expenditures made up to February 28, 2010. There were no key issues from the
review.

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-
completion operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation & Maintenance
arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation,
if applicable)

The reviews of this Project, conducted in the early phase of implementation made a number of
useful recommendations aimed at improving the implementation of both AEP and LEP. Yet,
given that the reviews cast doubts about the viability of the existing programs, the focus quickly
shifted to preparing a new project (MCP) as opposed to improving or otherwise restructuring
AEP and LEP. Once MCP was approved, new activity on these projects ceased and supervision
was limited to overseeing payments and contracts of the existing hires.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
        (to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

It must again be noted that without primary documentation about AEP, it is difficult to measure
or evaluate program design, outcomes and the attainment of objectives in this and succeeding
sections. The following discussion assumes that the material contained in secondary sources is
accurate.

The short term injection of capacity was relevant to the country context, characterized as it was
by severe capacity constraints in the civil service and the severely limited ability of the
government to compete with other donor agencies for qualified staff. There is much to be said for
a project that successfully injected ad hoc capacity during the early emergency phase of the
reconstruction effort. One senses when reading documentation prepared during that period that
any expertise would be welcome. However, AEP did not start implementation until late 2004,
more than two and a half years after the Bonn Conference, well after the establishment of the
IARCSC and the PAR program. According to the Prashant review, a number of expatriates had
already returned under the auspices of other donor-funded programs. By that stage, one must
question the idea of repatriating “any” expertise that was willing to return. The needs of the



                                               12
various ministries had become clearer and a more strategic approach to capacity could have been
attempted at that point.

Amongst the key priorities identified in the Government’s National Development Framework
(2002) and the Interim Afghanistan National Development Strategy (2006) (I-ANDS) were
strengthening core government agencies, public administration and the civil service. Yet, while
AEP’s objectives were couched in a rationale around increasing civil service capacity, it appears
to have had confused development objectives, partly a mechanism for assisting repatriation and
partly a mechanism for autochthonous capacity development. Further, the scale of the operation
remained too small to make a major impact in any particular ministry or department, much less
across the whole of government.

AEP was supposed to inject short-term Afghan expertise; however, the nature of this expertise
and of the needs that it was supposed to meet was never specified. What were the critical needs in
Afghanistan in terms of the high level expertise? It was unclear whether these needs were
essentially of a managerial nature to run existing institutions or rather highly technical specialized
skills. As a result, expatriate expertise was mobilized in many cases on the basis of uncertain
terms of reference and blurred needs assessments. The precise roles of advisors remained
ambiguous. If it was managerial expertise that was needed, then AEP’s design was wrong (since
it brought in staff in advisory positions, not line positions) and it was unlikely that the program
could attract such skills in any event. In fact, while AEP was supposed to only fill advisory
positions, a number of its experts were brought in to meet managerial needs.

With initial targets of recruits on the order of 60 (rising to 200), excessive faith was placed in the
capacity of the AEP advisors to initiate change processes and to themselves engage in capacity
building, when they were situated in an uncoordinated fashion in a range of highly dysfunctional
and low capacity entities. As Michailof suggests, AEP expertise could have been utilized more
effectively if used in a strategic way, and targeted towards entities that would undertake a reform
process and had both the requisite leadership and a minimum of human capacity to undertake the
reform. Individual advisors can only provide impetus to reform if there is clear leadership in the
given institution and if a critical mass of qualified professionals can press for and implement
change. This transpired to be the case in MRRD and in the Ministry of Public Health, but not in
many other agencies. Both these ministries received several AEP’s each. These AEP’s did play
important roles in promoting the PRR efforts as well as in strengthening the management of large
investment programs. If the aim was to increase institutional change and implement the
development agenda, then thinly dispersing them across numerous ministries was highly unlikely
to have a substantive impact on culture change and on reform efforts. It may have been possible
to cluster AEPs (and LEPs) around fewer ministries and agencies and their efforts aligned to
support clearer and specific ministry-agency level objectives.

The idea of hiring an implementation support consultant was justified in 2002, especially in light
of the fact that the government counterpart at that stage was the Ministry for Refugees with
minimal capacity of its own. Similarly, in 2004, the IARCSC was in its infancy and the appeal of
an implementation consultant was understandable. The choice of IOM transpired to be a poor
one. With a background in repatriation and resettlement, IOM was seen as fast-tracking the
project at the beginning, but added no value at all in the end, when it was performing general
administrative and oversight duties pertaining to recruitment. While IOM was contracted to
provide implementation support, it was not located within IARCSC. In light of the consensus
about IOM’s poor performance, insufficient action was taken to either improve their performance
or terminate the contract prior to its end date in August 2006. All who were interviewed
indicated that the IARCSC performed better than IOM with regards to these tasks.


                                                 13
The AEP governance structure opened the project up to claims of a conflict of interest, and
recruitment based on patronage. Several allegedly politically imposed appointments undermined
the credibility of the whole project.

3.2          Achievement of Project Development Objectives
             (including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes)

The Development Objective (DO) rating in the data sheet of this Implementation Completion
and Results Report (ICR) (which is drawn automatically from the last Implementation Status
Report (ISR) approved before closing) is Satisfactory. However this does not reflect the
conclusions from this ICR as described below. The correct DO rating is Moderately
Unsatisfactory. We are unable to reflect this correctly in the data sheet.

As there is no formal appraisal document for AEP, it is difficult to “measure or evaluate program
outcomes and the attainment of objectives”. Because of the considerable delay in the
implementation of AEP for two years, it did not function as an emergency mechanism through
which Afghan expertise in the diaspora could be repatriated. “If the program was intended to
build capacity in the civil service rather than provide short term consultants to make things
happen, then it has clearly underachieved.”21 There is no evidence that AEPs made a measurable
contribution to capacity development of civil servants in the ministries to which they were
assigned. The PDO was therefore extraordinarily ambitious. Given the low capacity base, it was
unreasonable to expect small numbers of AEPs to bring about significant improvements in
capacity of the underlying civil service units in which they were employed.

Though there is no evidence to document the collective impact of AEPs and LEPs on capacity
development in Afghanistan, this does not mean that the individuals recruited through these
programs did not have an individual impact. In all, 95 AEPs and 138 LEPs were recruited
through the Project. Of these, it is very encouraging that only 2 have left Afghanistan by the time
of this review. In addition, many of the individual LEPs have gone on to play very prominent
roles in the Afghan Government as well as in other important Afghan institutions, as
demonstrated below.




21 Prashant, 2006.




                                                   14
                     Table 1: Comparison of LEP and post-LEP careers of a sample of LEP employees
                                                                           LEP
No            Name                      Before LEP                  Designation under LEP      Ministry/Agency                    Now
1    Ajmal Ayan             Advisor,   International Relations External Relations Manager Communication and Director General Policy and External
                            Planning Depart of MoICT                                      IT                Relations (under MCP), Ministry of
                                                                                                            Information & Technology

2    Aimal Marjan           National ICT Advisor, MoICT            Director of IT             Communication and Director     General  Information
                                                                                              IT                Technology (under MCP), Ministry
                                                                                                                of Information & Technology

3    Dr. Jalil Shams        Businessman, University lecturer       Deputy            Minister Energy and Water     CEO Brishna Power Company
                                                                   Administration
4    Zia Gul Saljuki        Head of WAPECA                         Director of Engineering Energy and WaterDirector General Donors Relations
                                                                   and Consulting Service                  and Coordination (under MCP),
                                                                                                           Ministry of Energy & Water
5    Mirwais Ahmadzai       HR Manager (Bering Point), USAID Reform and Evaluation Finance                 Acting    HR support     Director,
                                                                Consultant                                 IARCSC
6    Eshaq Aloko            Advisor of Criminal Law/Ministry of Deputy Attorney General Office of Attorney Attorney General
                            Justice                                                       General
7    Arian Sharifi          Private Sector, Singapore           Director of Communication Finance          Overseas for Education

8    Sayed      Zabihullah Senior Program     Coordinator,     UN Director General ARS        IARCSC               Director General Administrative
     Sawayz                Habitat                                                                                 Reform Secretariat (under MCP),
                                                                                                                   IARCSC
9    Yalda Natiq            Communication Officer/IHRC             Head of Foreign Relation Transport and Civil Director Foreign Relations (under
                                                                   Department                  Aviation            MCP), Ministry ofTransport and
                                                                                                                   Civil Aviation
10   Nadir Wahab            Commerical Atesha, UAE                 Administrative      Reform Office        Senior Capacity Building Officer (under
                                                                   Specialist                  minister  to    the NIBP), IARCSC
                                                                                               President
11   Hamidullah Amin         Lecture,      Kabul     University/   Assessment              and Higher Education    Chancellor     Kabul    University,
                             International NGO                     Evaluation Advisor                              Ministry of Higher Education
12   Mohammad          Farid Consultant, OAA                       Deputy General Director Office               of Consultant, OAA
     Hekmat                                                        Administration              Administrative
                                                                                               Affairs
13   Mohammad          Asif Project    Coordinator/Pak-Afghan      Spokesperson                Office           of Spokesperson,       Ministry     of
     Nang                   Cross Border Training                                              Administrative      Education
                                                                                               Affairs
14   Abdul Ghafoor Liwal Director of Cultural and Social           Media consultant            Office           of Director Regional Studies Center
                         Affairs                           s
                                       Department/President’                                   Administrative
                         Office                                                                Affairs
15   Dr.       Amanullah Chief of Field Survellance/Maryland       Chancellor of Nangarhar Higher Education        Chancellor of Academy of Science
     Hamidzai            State Health Dept, USA                    University
16   Gul Maqsood Sabit Business        manager/La    Honda-        Internal Audit Director     Finance             CEO Pashtany Bank
                         Pescadero, California, USA
17   Hazrat        Meer Academic Deputy, Khost University          Chancellor of     Kandahar Higher Education     Chancellor Kandahar University,
     Totakhail                                                     University                                      MoHE
18   Abdul       Rahman Deputy of Protocol, Ministry of            Director   of     Provincial IARCSC             Director Provincial Affairs (under
     Rasikh              Foreign Affairs                           Affairs                                         MCP), IARCSC
19   Mohammad Yousuf Advisor to the Ministry of Education          ACE Member                 Education            Minister of Religious Affairs
     Niazi
20   Noorul       Haque Advisor, Documents and Relations,          Chief of staff             Energy and Water     Deputy Minister
     Faqiryar            Ministry of Civil Aviation and
                         Toursim



                     Indeed, some of the Government’s most well-known reformers were recruited into service
                     through AEP or LEP and have been sustained through MCP (see some examples in Box 1). As a
                     result, though it would be difficult to ascribe a collective impact to AEP and LEP hires as a group
                     or to make any claims about their contribution to the capacity of the state, many of the individuals
                     recruited through the program have made a significant contribution in their own areas. This
                     suggests that the objectives of the program can be seen less in terms of capacity development and
                     more in terms of key individual recruitments and the contribution that individuals made to
                     support specific reform efforts during the term of their appointments and their broader
                     contributions to Afghanistan’s development in their post AEP careers. The AEP’s rapidly moved



                                                                                    15
         into important managerial and political positions across Government at the end of their contracts
         for example.

                               Table 2: Post AEP Careers of a Sample of AEP consultants

                                                                        AEP
No          Name                       Before AEP                 Designation under AEP      Ministry/Agency                     Now
1    Ahmad Javid Jalali  Chief operaing officer /Afghanistan     Head of Revenue            Finance               Director General Budget (under
                         Finance Company                                                                          MCP), Ministry of Finance
2    Wahidullah Shahrani Lecturer in economics, finance and      Economic Advisor to the Finance                  Minister of Mines
                         business    faculty of Business,        President and   Deputy
                         Richmond Upon Thames College            minister
                         Kingston University
3    Davood Moradian     Lecturership      in    International   Senior Policy Advisor      Foreign Affairs       Director      Strategic    Studies
                         Relations, Scotland                                                                      Center(under MCP), Ministry of
                                                                                                                  Foreign Affairs
4    Rahela       Hashim Planning      and       Management      Senior Advisor to       the IARCSC               Senior Advisor to the Chairman of
     Siddiqi             consultant CESVI                        Chairman of IARCSC                               IARCSC
5    Homayoon Rasaw      Project    Coordinator,    Manager      Head of Secretariat        IARCSC                Deputy Chief of staff for the
                         UNDP/ICT Project                                                                         President
6    Ahmad Eklil Hakimi Private Sector, USA                      Advisor to IARCSC          IARCSC                Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs

7    Omar Zakhailwal       Senior      Policy     Advisor/CIDA Senior advisor to the MRRD                         Finance Minister
                           Secantment MRRD                     minister
8    Rangin         Dadfar Lecturer at University in Germany   Advisor      International President’
                                                                                                   s Office       National Security Advisor to
     Spanta                                                    Affairs                                            President
9    Mohammad        Yasin Advisor, Private Sector, Canada     Advisor Financial Affairs President’s Office       Director General, High Office of
     Osmani                                                                                                       Oversight, Advisor to the President

10   Barna Karimi      President of ALMA OSA Enterprise, Deputy Chief of staff                       s Office
                                                                                            President’            Deputy Minsiter IDLG
                       INC.
11   Prof. Abdul Salam Chief    of   Party/University of Legal Advisor                               s Office
                                                                                            President’            Advisor to the President, Head of
     Azimi             Nebraska at Omah IARRENA, Kabul                                                            Supreme Court, Chief Justice

12   Shojauddin Ziaie      Manager/Kings Burry, London           Technical Advisor          Energy and Water      Deputy Minister
13   Omar Sultan           Special Consultant    to   National Advisor to the minister      Information       and Deputy Minister
                           Geographic Society                                               Culture



         On the whole therefore, the program can point to some significant success.

         3.3     Efficiency
         (Net present value/Economic rate of return, cost effectiveness and Financial Rate of Return)
         The project was a capacity building project from a trust fund grant, so no calculations of rates of
         return were undertaken.

         3.4        Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

         Rating: Unsatisfactory.

         The strongest positive impact of this project was largely unintended – it proved to be a recruiting
         ground for key reformist members of the Government’s technocratic leadership and other public
         sector institutions today. This was said by several interviewees to be a relatively efficacious use
         of US$13 million in a context such as Afghanistan, with its enormous aid flows. However,
         assessed against it stated development objectives as a capacity-building project, the project
         clearly fell short. The AEP and LEP recruits do not appear to have made a systematic
         contribution to building overall capacity in the civil service or increasing strategic capacity.



                                                                     16
The absence of any primary documentation on file about the AEP makes the most basic effort to
undertake such an assessment of this component difficult, though the simple fact that it took two
years for this emergency project to get off the ground, suggests that it was an unsatisfactory
response to the urgent capacity gaps. LEP is more thoroughly documented, and was a peer
reviewed product. It had ambitious target of 1,500 lateral recruits into the civil service, but a
phase II of the project was abandoned (having shifted instead to the preparation of a new project
– MCP), and it in the end only brought in 138 recruits.

Apart from financial management reporting, supervision of both components of the program was
marked by extremely poor reporting. Since July 2008, project reporting for recipient-executed
trust-fund financed projects with a financing amount above US$ 5 million follows the Bank's
operational policies applicable to IBRD loans and IDA credits/grants. Before that, the Vice
Presidential Unit’s internal control and monitoring procedures were applicable.22 These new
standards were only inconsistently applied to this project as the task team with frequent
leadership changes was not fully clear on the applicability of the new guidelines to this project.
Again, beyond financial reporting, due to the absence of documentation on file, this ICR cannot
determine whether the VPU’s procedures for supervision were followed.

3.5           Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
None of the project objectives directly dealt with poverty reduction or social development,
although it could possibly be argued that the capacity brought in by Afghan expatriates and lateral
entrants indirectly improved the capacity of Government institutions to implement its overall
development agenda and thus deliver any poverty reduction.

The implementation of the AEP and LEP introduced several women into senior civil service
posts, although their numbers are too small to form any critical mass which would facilitate any
cultural change to a male-dominated civil service or make it more a attractive environment for
women to work in. At the time of the NORAD review, only 9 of 76 AEP recruits and 1 of 93
LEP recruits were women. When IARCSC and LEP staff was questioned by the NORAD
review of LEP about the extremely low percentage of women, they cited the more conducive
work environment for women in NGOs and international organizations discouraged them from
leaving. They also cited issues related to security, transportation and office infrastructure as not
being helpful.23 AEP expatriate recruits interviewed by the Prashant review indicated systemic
resistance to women in high positions. The AEP program appeared to itself disadvantage its
female recruits in terms of compensation, with average remuneration lower than for male recruits:
only one woman had a salary of US$5000, while the remainder had salaries of between US$2500
and US$4000.



22   The now superceded OP 14.40 and BP 14.40 applied. The SAR VPU supervises TF activities to ensure that the funds are used in a
timely manner for the agreed purposes. Each VPU is accountable for TFs it administers; therefore, it establishes internal control and
monitoring procedures to ensure that the Bank fulfills its obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions of each TF
Administration Agreement. Financial administration of a TF is the responsibility of the VPU. That is to say, it appears that SAR
would have had its own policy for supervision of the project.
23   The woman recruited by LEP indicated to Oftedal that this was not the case and cited a number of senior women working in her
ministry.




                                                                  17
There were no programs to nurture female talent and leadership once recruited into the system,
nor realistic targets for female recruitment into the program. The absence of an emphasis on
proactive gender policy, especially in relation to recruits from the diaspora is at odds with the
professed goal in many policy documents.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Both AEPs and LEPs appear to have been too thinly dispersed to have substantive impact on
cultural change or capacity of specific Government entities, although a few have proven to play
an important role in developing and implementing a reform agenda in their specific areas.
Clustering of AEPs and LEPs around fewer ministries and agencies, in order to support clearer
and specific ministry-agency level objectives, may have made a greater contribution to
institutional change and strengthening.

The major achievement of this program from the perspective of overall institutional strengthening
was to introduce the ideas of (i) merit-based recruitment and (ii) lateral/external recruitment to the
senior cadre of the civil service in Afghanistan, the first in South Asia. While far from
institutionalized, this is an achievement, as is the introduction of a performance appraisal system
for those individuals hired through the system.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The strongest unintended outcome of the AEP and LEP was that it helped expand the professional
pool from which future ministers, deputy ministers and heads of agencies would be drawn. The
present Minister of Finance, the Chief Justice, Minister of Mines, Chief of Security Counsel, the
ex Minister of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Minister of
Independent Directorate of Local Government, Attorney General, Minister of Haj and Religious
Affairs, Director General of High Office of Oversight and Anti-Corruption, were recruited
through LEP and/or AEP.

       Box 1: AEP/LEP introduced Public Sector Reform and Private Sector Leaders

Many consultants recruited through the Program have stayed on, after the completion of the
Program in various senior positions within the Government.

Ministers and deputy ministers such as Wahidullah Sharani (Minister of Mines), Omar Zakhiwal
(Minister of Finance), Barna Karimi (Deputy Head of IDLG), Eklil Hakimi (Ambassador to
USA) and Farooq Wardak (Minister of Education) were hired through the Program initially. They
have contributed substantially to improving Ministry level performance of Mines, Finance,
IARCSC and Foreign Affairs, IDLG and OAA and Education. These ministers have been able to
set the pace of comprehensive reforms, while simultaneously increasing ownership of these
reforms within the Government. A number of recruits hired through the Program currently work
as directors within different ministries. Ajmal Ayan, Aimal Marjan, Zia Gul Saljuki, Sayed
Zabiullah Sawayz, Yalda Natiq and Abdul Rahman Rasikh have contributed to legal reform,
institutional strengthening and capacity building in significant ways in finance, information and
technology, energy and water, transport and civil aviation and the IARCSC. These former LEP’s
all presently hold Director General level posts in different ministries.

LEPs have also directly contributed towards the implementation of PRR process. Mirwais
Ahmedzai, Zia Gul Saljuki were directly involved in implementing the PRR process in the
ministries of finance, information and technology, energy and water.

LEPs who were hired through the Program have contributed strongly to the development of


                                                 18
higher education. 4 LEPs, Habidullah Amin, Amanullah Hamidzai and Hazrat Meer Totakhail,
are currently working as the chancellors of Kabul and other universities.

Some LEPs moved to work in the private sector in Afghanistan upon completion of the Program
and are making their presence felt. Jalil Shams is currently working as the CEO of Brishna Power
Company and the Pashtani Bank.

Further, these projects enabled external capacity injection possible in an otherwise closed
recruitment system, thus opening up the Afghan civil service to external recruitment. To
accommodate LEP in line posts, civil service recruitment had to be made open. Through
subsequent changes to civil service regulations and laws, the element was retained making the
Afghan civil service one of the most open across the South Asia region.

3.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

In order to assess the impact of the Program on beneficiaries, a stakeholder workshop was
conducted with key informants on December 11th, 2011, and interviews were conducted with
eight LEPs (for more details, see Annex 6).

In summary, the LEPs appear to have been involved mainly in the implementation of strategic
and administrative reform within ministries, including the development of strategic plans for
reform, establishment of 5-year plans for newly created ministries, building transparency within
ministries and legislative reform, facilitating the creation of databases and websites to simplify
business procedures and improve day-to-day management. The LEPs also contributed towards
administrative reform geared towards the privatization of state owned enterprises such as Afghan
Telecom. The eight interviewed LEPs highlighted the following:

       i. Main challenges faced by LEPs: All the LEPs interviewed highlighted the fact that they
           operated in a highly political environment which hindered their performance. Also, the
           LEPs did not receive recognition for their achievements nor saw any prospects for
           career growth. LEPs also felt that leadership within the ministries was largely weak.
           This is relevant because all the LEPs interviewed stated that the tasks assigned to them
           were daunting. Finally, the interviewees highlighted the fact that the facilities and
           support within the ministries were wholly inadequate to operate effectively.

      ii. Recruitment process: Interviews with LEPs revealed that the recruitment process was
           time-consuming and cumbersome. There were significant delays in the disbursement of
           salaries. Nevertheless, the respondents pointed out that the salaries were competitive.

      iii. Recommendations: The respondents made a number of recommendations to improve the
            program and make it more attractive for Afghans willing and interested to work in the
            civil service. They are:

              a. Regular coordination mechanisms should be established amongst LEPs enabling
                 them to share their ideas and experiences.
              b. During the recruitment process, the interview panels should consist of related
                 technical experts in addition to normal management staff.
              c. There was a need to recognize and reward good performance to build morale and
                 motivation.
              d. Regular monitoring mechanisms should be established to assess the contributions
                 made by the LEPs.


                                                 19
4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial. A primary development outcome was to increase the quality and pace of
implementation of development programs. The capacity brought into line ministries through the
AEP and LEP was insufficient to have observable impacts on this developmental outcome. The
injection of capacity, however small, needed to, in any case be, supported by improvements in
public financial management, procurement and related systems that would have enabled
ministries to achieve this outcome. Progress in these areas was equally slow.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

While it should be noted that AEP was initiated at a time when the current operational guidelines
for trust funds did not apply, interviews and previous reviews suggest little evidence that the
proposal was subject to any peer review process in the Bank, tested against Bank operating
policies, or whether cognizance was taken of lessons from emergency staffing measures in other
post-conflict situations. It appears unclear whether public sector expertise was harnessed in its
design or indeed whether AEP was initially primarily even seen through the lens of a civil service
or public administration intervention. The emphasis of some donors supporting the project was
said to be on the repatriation of skilled Afghans from the diaspora – this meant that the initial
government counterpart was the Ministry of Refugees and Repatriation rather than an agency
which was responsible for the civil service or public administration. This also explains the
curious involvement of the International Agency of Migration as a supporting consultant, once it
was decided that the implementing agency would be the IARCSC. IOM is an international
organization specializing in the organized transfer of migrants and refugees; by all accounts did a
poor job in the context of this project.

AEP design reflected confused, and potentially conflicting, objectives, as described above. The
overriding objectives of injecting skilled Afghans into the civil service and increasing overall
civil service capacity in some instances clashed with the interest of key donor agencies to provide
an opportunity for Afghan refugees to return to Afghanistan.

The general assessment of interviewees on the Bank side was that LEP was significantly better
designed than AEP. A public sector specialist was involved in its design, documentation was
systematically filed, and it was subject to the full peer review process. While the end product was
not without its flaws, and it could certainly have been streamlined better with the management
structure of AEP, its quality at entry was substantially better than AEP.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Unsatisfactory

Apart from financial management reporting (procurement and audit reports), poor reporting and
document management in IRIS means that there is little evidence of supervision. One of the past
TTLs for this project indicated that a lot of time was spent on supervising or monitoring the work



                                                20
of various project entities (and on working with procurement colleagues on issuing “no
objections”) but that this was not reported or meaningfully captured in the system.

Three sets of ratings for ISRs were entered into the system, but the justification for these ratings
and the process of arriving at them is unknown. Presumably the ratings were entered at the
discretion of the TTL at the time, and cleared by sector management. While there is little
documentary evidence that is available, the previous reviews that were undertaken of AEP and
LEP would suggest that the predominantly “satisfactory” ratings in the first two ISRs would
appear to be inflated. The lax attitude to supervision and records management appears to have
been due partly to the assumption that, because the project was funded by ARTF -- a recipient-
executed trust fund that until July 2008 was not subject to regular Bank supervision procedures --
there was no need to keep IRIS updated with appropriate information. As a result, data about the
project are woefully inadequate.

Bank supervision appears to have been heavily focused on procurement and fiduciary risks –
trying to limit patronage and cronyism in the recruitment process. Due to the low procurement
thresholds in Afghanistan, the context of a heavily patronage-based society with no history of
merit-based recruitment in the civil service, and the political pressures that came to bear in
relation to certain recruitments, this approach is understandable. TTLs invested considerable time
working with procurement colleagues on issuing “no-objections” in relation to individual
procurements, as well as on the individual performance appraisal process of recruits. Yet this
appears to be at the expense of evaluating overall development efficacy of the project. The focus
does not appear to have been on monitoring or collecting data to measure outcomes, or on
whether the placement of the recruits was helpful. The “clean” recruitment of individual AEPs
and LEPs, and monitoring of each individual’s performance through an appraisal process was
seen as the end in itself and the development effectiveness of the overall project and whether it
was meeting its strategic goals and aims appears to have been left to the various reviews of the
project that were undertaken in 2005 and 2006. There does not appear to be any evidence of
changes to AEP after the Michailof review of May 2005. Soon after the NORAD review of LEP
in May 2006 and the Prashant review of June 2006, the decision was made to develop the
successor project MCP.

When one TTL was asked about whether he felt that the overall development effectiveness of the
project and the more strategic issues had been compromised due to the time-intensive nature of
the fiduciary safeguards, he said that strategic thinking was focused on the broader civil service
reform policy engagement outside the Project under review.

The quality of the supervision was likely to have been affected by the constant change in task
team leaders. A project like this requires extensive and continuous communication between TTLs
and project counterparts and a relationship of comfort and trust. Five names were mentioned by
interviewees, mapped to different sectors -- Human Development, Country Management Unit and
the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

Preceding paragraphs have documented the lax attitude towards procedural issues, and many
basic principles of project management, in light of the fact that this was an ARTF project. There
were constant changes of Task Team Leader during the life of the AEP and LEP. During 2004,
when the LEP was being designed, a public sector specialist was brought in to lead project


                                                21
preparation and the project subsequently came to the Poverty Reduction and Economic
Management Group. While the TTLs after this appear to have had specific public sector
expertise, there was regular turnover of TTLs. There appears to have been weak oversight at the
sector management level.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The two year delay in the implementation of the AEP meant that it did not perform as an
emergency plan to inject ad hoc staffing capacity. During the delay, a number of highly qualified
Afghans returned to the country under the auspices of other donor programs. The Government
cannot be faulted for this however and as other avenues opened up, ministries began to lose
interest in the AEP.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

A small, largely part time secretariat within the IARCSC managed both these components. With
IOM’s assistance, the secretariat established clear recruitment procedures, records were properly
maintained, employee performance was monitored and grievances were resolved. A number of
interlocutors commented that the IARCSC’s performance was much better than either the Bank’s
performance or the Government’s as a whole. The Ofdetal review (for NORAD) commented that
the Commission and the management of LEP should be given “full credit” for the work done so
far.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The program outcomes were affected by lack of clarity at the start on the functions of IARCSC
and the Ministry of Refugees and Repatriation. This took more than 12 months to resolve and
involved sensitive inter-ministry and internal government discussions that affected the start of the
program. The borrower had identified rightly the need to inject capacity in advisory and
managerial posts. However, once the program was operational, it made no efforts to restrain the
use of direct donor top-ups and other incentives which meant that ministerial interest in these
windows inevitably waned.

6.      Lessons Learned

When analyzing the lessons, it is necessary to consider the context in which the Program was
implemented. The Program was initiated less than two years after the Bonn Agreement. The
needs for capacity building were poorly defined at the time. Ministries/agencies/departments were
understaffed, under-budgeted with unclear mandates. In this context the AEP and the LEP were a
significant and highly innovative approach to redressing generic, rather than specific capacity
constraints.




                                                22
Two elements of this innovation stand out. First, contingent changes to civil service regulations
opened up the civil service to external recruitment. The LEP was the means through which the
Afghan civil service was opened and therefore become capable of directly receiving civil servants
at middle and senior levels from external labor markets. Had this not been the case, capacity
development would have been even slower as the civil service system would have relied on new
recruits, with fresh university degrees to move into middle and senior ranks after the requisite
period of 5 or more years of employment. Second, incentive pay for LEPs in line posts was
introduced without adding upward pressure on the overall civil service pay structure as they were
essentially civil servants ‘on contract’. Both these lessons are relevant for post conflict
institutional environments characterized by collapsed administrations and severe fiscal
constraints.

Third, using the Diaspora to attract ‘high performers’ – though not unique was innovative
nevertheless. There was a strong emphasis on ‘management expertise’ in AEP. Though these
were essentially advisory posts, new management experiences were brought into the civil service
management. AEPs in many instances introduced some basic modern practices into management
such as electronic filing, making decisions through open deliberations, challenging archaic
administrative rules and practices, introducing discipline in work places and reducing informality.
AEPs often worked close to Ministers and professionalized offices of the Ministers enabling them
to better focus on decision making and separate their ministerial functions from their ‘political
roles’.

7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

The implementing agency was positive in its response about the outcomes of the two programs.
Nevertheless, it proposes a number of recommendations that would be instrumental in improving
the success of such endeavors in the future. These are outlined below.

       i. Establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the initial phase of program
           inception to identify capacity gaps, more systematically monitor the performance of
           recruits during their employment.
      ii. Prioritize gender mainstreaming first, by making a concerted effort to recruit more
           women in the civil service; and, second, by emphasizing those areas of service delivery
           in the reconstruction process where gender concerns are not effectively addressed.
     iii. Re-assess the scope and scale of the Program since public sector reform is a dynamic
           process and immediate positive results are not always forthcoming. Both government
           and donors need to be more patient in expecting major results.
     iv. Delegate more authority to local ministries/agencies/departments to recruit
           expatriates and lateral entrants; and assess their performance thereby increasing
           ownership by the Afghan Government.
      v. Streamline implementation, specifically by improving the quality of recruits, improve
           the process by which potential candidates are recruited (hiring procedures); and by
           ensuring there is capacity transfer to line staff.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

The Program was entirely funded by the ARTF, of which the World Bank acts as administrator.
The ARTF has received contributions from more than 30 donors since 2002. The lessons learned



                                                23
from this program were shared with DFID, USAID and other donors with a keen interest in this
program.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

At the time when IARCSC was in its infancy, it was decided that a support consultant would be
hired to help implement the AEP. The Government sub-contracted IOM to identify qualified
Afghans living abroad and to perform the necessary recruitment and hiring functions. Subsequent
to a comprehensive review of the Program conducted in 2006, the IOM contract was amended for
an additional 2 months. It was not renewed after August 2006. Since then, he IARCSC managed
LEP on its own, including the recruitment and hiring functions.




                                              24
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                  Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage               of
Components                                        Estimate      (USD
                               (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                  millions)
 AEP                                   10.00        9,726,724.47
 LEP                                    3.00       3,224,6660.07


Total Baseline Cost                           13.00       12,951434.77
Physical Contingencies
                                               0.00                 0.00    0.00
Price Contingencies
                                               0.00                 0.00    0.00
Total Project Costs                            0.00                13.00
Project Preparation Costs                      0.00                 0.00    .00
                                               0.00                 0.00    .00
Total Financing Required                       0.00                13.00




(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                         Type       of Estimate      Estimate      Percentage of
Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing (USD            (USD          Appraisal
                                                       millions)     millions)
Trust Funds                                            0.00          0.00
Afghanistan     Reconstruction   Trust
                                                      13.00          0.00          .00
Fund




                                                 25
     Annex 2. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
Names                       Title                                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
                            Lead Public Sector Management
Nicholas Paul Manning                                     SASPR
                            Specialist
Rahimullah Wardak           Procurement Analyst           SARPS
Deepal Fernando             Senior Procurement Specialist SARPS
Anne Tully                  Senior Country Officer        SAC
Ranjana Mukherjee           Sr. Public Sector Specialist  SASPR

Supervision/ICR
Deepal Fernando             Senior Procurement Specialist         SARPS
Kenneth O. Okpara           Sr. Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Satyendra Prasad            Senior Governance Specialist          SASGP
Nigel Peter Coulson         Senior Public Sector Specialist       SASPR
Anne Tully                  Senior Operations Officer             OPCFC
Ranjana Mukherjee           Sr. Public Sector Specialist          SASGP
Monali Aziz Choudhury       Sr Public Sector Specialist           MNA
Vidya Kamath                Program Assistant                     SASGP
Hossai Mahak Aliffi         Team Assistant                        SACAF


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
       FY05                                    4.83                        36589.00
       FY06                                     22                         89953.00
Total:                                          26.83                    126542.00
Supervision/ICR
       FY07                                       20.31                   82612.00
       FY08                                        5.94                   24294.00
       FY09                                        0.5                     2063.00
Total:                                            26.75                  108969.00




                                             26
                            Annex 3: Monitoring Indicators for LEP

Objective                             Indicator                  Monitoring Mechanism                     Reporting Frequency

Providing short to medium term        Number of lateral          Through monitoring Ministry’s            Monthly for the initial
capacity to ministries primarily in   entrants recruited         records, ARS FM consultant.              phase and six monthly
agencies where the PRR effort has     i) women                                                            thereafter
been slow to take off                 ii) men
                                      iii) ethnicities

Laying the foundation for the         Pace of implementation     Submission of stage 1 and/or 2           At the end of 6 months
reform process in ministries and      of reforms in LEP vs.      applications for PRR.
government agencies, which are        non – LEP departments
currently not under the PRR           (would include an          Progress on PRR in PRR ministries
process                               element of evaluating      can be compared to progress of
                                      performance against        reforms in LEP departments/agencies.
                                      TORs, which will be
                                      conducted by ministries    TORs will be evaluated by line
                                      employing the LEPs but     agencies and then cleared by the ARS.
                                      with assistance from the
                                      ARS and IAB)               The IARCSC is mindful of the
                                                                 problems     of    TA     performance
                                                                 monitoring but a probationary period
                                                                 provides the government with the
                                                                 opportunity to terminate LEP contracts
                                                                 early.

                                                                 Performance evaluation is working
                                                                 reasonably well for AEP.

                                                                 Performance measurement tools are
                                                                 being developed and piloted for PRR
                                                                 and AEP, which can be used as a
                                                                 starting point for the LEP.

Training,      mentoring      and     The capacity of existing   Independent     and     competitive      12 months.
motivating regular post holders to    civil servants to apply    appointments procedures of the
work more efficiently and more        for PRR positions will     IARCSC through which these civil
effectively for the government,       be enhanced.               servants will apply for new PRR
providing an alternative to the                                  positions.
continued extensive use of
technical      assistance     and
consultants




                                                     27
    1.
                             Annex 4: Beneficiary Survey Results

         Report of Focus Group Interviews with AEPs/LEPs that moved on to MCP

             Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission
                 General Directorate of Programs’ Design and Management

AEP/LEP MCP Brainstorming Workshop/Session Report (11th December, 2011 – IARCSC)

(Report prepared by the IARCSC and edited by Satyendra Prasad)

The Brainstorming Workshop/Session was conducted on May 29, 2010 at General Directorate of
Programs Design and Management (GDPDM) of the Independent Administrative Reform and
Civil Service Commission (IARCSC). The session aimed to review the Management Capacity
Program (MCP), share lessons learned from its predecessor AEP and LEP programs and
brainstorm for future direction of the program.

 General Director of Program design and management, heads of each department of the IARCSC,
heads of key international donors, Deputy chief of staff to the president of Afghanistan,
representatives from the ministries of Economy, foreign Affairs, Education and Agriculture,
Irrigation and livestock were present and actively participated. Most participants were recruited
initially through the AEP or the LEP program.

The meeting was called to (i) share lessons from AEP, LEP and MCP, (ii) and to explore
possibility of scaling-up the MCP program. Particularly in consideration of the upcoming Kabul
Conference and the expected announcement to roll out national projects, a scaled-up MCP could
be used to facilitate the roll out of capacity building in Tashkeel positions.
 All participants in the meeting actively contributed to the brainstorming discussion, providing
important feedback on and pointed out the following comments and suggestions during the
session.

    •    Develop MCP and Civilian Technical Assistance Program (CTAP) into a more strategic
         and cooperative system of support services
             o Build a roadmap for MCP that would include an exit strategy
             o Consider close coordination with Superscale
             o Approach MCP as part of a larger government structure and consider the lessons
                 learned from AEP and LEP
             o Address sustainability of MCP through
                      ƒ Approaching Pay & Grading (P&G), MCP, and CTAP as one package
                      ƒ Build a middle-level de-politicized civil service
    •    Develop a Capacity Development Framework that would provide a big picture approach
         to CD through programs like MCP and CTAP
    •    Further develop data collection mechanisms for MCP
             o Re-visit goals for data collection
             o Consider difference in data collection outcomes at a departmental level vs. a
                 Ministerial level
    •    Re-visit setting the critical mass for determining proof of success
             o Consider whether current methods still apply result-based management
             o What have we learned from MCP



                                               28
•   Prioritize resources by considering what reforms areas to focus
•   Consider re-evaluation breakdown of MCP Appointee appraisal, such as 50% on
    Capacity Development and 50% on service delivery
•   Build capacity within each ministry to handle
        o data collection
        o translations
•   Expand effect of appraisal process
        o Provide rewards for success stories
        o Use outcomes to suggest constructive change
        o Evaluate deliverables
        o Identify needs in Ministries and gaps in service
•   Ministry of Education requests appointment of MCPs for all provincial level directors
•   Address evaluation of impact of Advisors from different donors assigned to same
    function or problem
•   Clarify distinction between CTAP (a TA program) and MCP (a line management support
    program)
•   Consider role of ARTF in implementation of MCP as a development program and
    whether MCP should be rolled into GoIRA payroll
•   Address MCP management problems, such as NOL
        o Simplify/reduce bureaucracy
        o Increase HR, finance, and M&E capacity/simplify recruitment process within
             MCP
•   Address the Beckham Factor – Hiring one star vs. a star team
        o In both AEP and LEP there was a ‘peppering of capacity’ and this meant that
             ministries depended on a few individuals. MCP seemed to be repeating this
             approach.
        o The Kabul Conference will be a good entry point for MCP packaging approach
             (shifting to a function-based provision of MCP packaged support vs. a problem-
             based approach wherein a single senior level appointee is provided.)
•   Focus more on quality of baseline assessments and performance appraisals
•   Explore the example of MCP support to Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation, and
    Livestock (MAIL) where CTAP and MCP cooperation is happening
•   Consider whether MCP support to Ministries should be premised on a Ministry-presented
    proposal delineating functions and deliverables
•   Develop advanced methods to determine MCP contributions and share MCP experiences
    so that MCP appointees can draw on each other for lessons learned from common
    experiences
        o MCP support network
        o MCP newsletter highlighting achievements
        o Dealing with resentment from standard pay civil servants who may undermine
             MCP appointee efforts
•   Developing a quick support system for MCP appointees from home office to manage
    tasks, such as
        o Quick translations
        o Program review
        o Technical assistance
•   Consider providing MCP appointees a pre-joining boot camp to prepare them for the
    specific context and tasks for which they have been recruited
•   Clarify MCP appointees’ service delivery



                                          29
       o     Look to Ministry of Education (MoEd) for examples of MCP appointees
             providing a clear and definable service
•   Create a focused approach to MCP support to better define expected outcomes and create
    a realistic environment of positive change
        o Consider whether providing support through single MCP appointees is effective
        o Consider whether to measure individual MCP appointees differently than a team
             of MCP appointees
•   Continue to focus providing MCP support to advance PAR
        o Create a professional, capable, de-politicized civil service
•   Focus more on Gender
        o Challenges to hiring and retaining female AEP, LEP and MCP appointees were
             similar
                  ƒ Government office environment
                  ƒ Job security
                  ƒ Tailoring TORs to attract qualified candidates, regardless of gender
        o Ask whether current MCP appointee gender breakdown is an accurate reflection
             of Afghan society?
        o What is the solution to bringing gender balance to the MCP program?
                  ƒ Providing incentives?
                  ƒ Establishing quotas?
•   Consider MCP expansion at the sub national level
        o Should sub national MCP be approached from cluster, provincial, or district
             view?
        o Open floor for ideas on sub national MCP




                                         30
                               Annex 5: Institutional Mechanism for Recruitment of AEP/LEP



                Ministries: Identify their capacity building requirements and informs the ARS and CBS



                                                             IARCSC
                                                 Independent Administrative Reform


                                                                   ARTF Expatriate           Implementing Partner (IOM): Handles all
Administrative Reform Secretariat                                      Program               paperwork and logistics involved in ensuring
(ARS)                                                              Recruits Advisors         that a particular candidate selected by the
Runs a number of capacity building                                                           IAB is placed within the ministry requesting
programs under its capacity building                                                         his services. Contracting and logistics after
secretariat. Works in coordination with                                                      confirmation of appointments.
other ministries to assess and vet their
                                                                      Lateral Entry
capacity needs, to assess whether the                                                        Phase 1: Using existing capacity to get the
                                                                        Program
request for the lateral entrants is justified.                                               project rolling. For purposes of expediency,
                                                                    Recruits line staff
This unit is also supported by the Capacity                        for ministries for a      the first phase of implementation would
building secretariat to carry out these                            longer period (2-3        concentrate on recruiting Afghans working in
                                                                         years).             the NGO/private sector in the local market
                                                                                             i.e. primarily Kabul based. This would be the
                                                                                             response in the short-term to meet the urgent
                                                                                             requirement of 100 LEPs.
Ministerial Advisory Committee (MAC)
Oversees the workings of the IARCSC.
Comprises individual ministers, who vet
staffing needs identified by individual
ministries, assesses proposals to this end                                       Phase 2: Contracting Implementing Partner.
and authorizes IAB to proceed with                                               Because this program recruits longer term staff for
recruitment                                                                      dedicated      positions    within   ministries,    the
                                                                                 implementing partner has a larger role in that it works
                                                                                 extensively in collaboration with the IAB to help
                                                                                 recruit the candidates (prepare comprehensive
                                                                                 TORs, advertise appropriately etc.) and undertake
                                                                                 the paperwork necessary to place them into the
Independent Appointments Board (IAB)
                                                                                 relevant ministries. Therefore this organization
Upon receipt of approval from the MAC,
                                                                                 actively liaises with the IAB, the CBS, Treasury and
conducts the actual recruitment process i.e.
                                                                                 national and international head-hunting firms to
advertisements, interview, selection of
                                                                                 ensure a wide selection of candidates to choose
candidate etc. to ensure the recruitment of
                                                                                 from. It is this organization that would liaise with
quality staff.



                                                                                             Supported by Inter-
                                                                                             national and national
                                                                                             head-hunting firms




                                                                   31
                           Annex 6: Assessment of LEPs and AEPs

Interviews were conducted with 8 LEPs, all still employed in various capacities by the
Government. Key conclusions are summarized.

   1. Main Contribution of LEPs: The LEPs were mainly involved in the implementation of
      strategic and administrative reform within ministries, including the development of
      strategic plans for reform, establishment of 5-year plans for newly created ministries,
      building transparency within ministries and legislative reform. The LEPs also assisted in
      the creation of databases and websites for ministries to simplify procedures and day-to-
      day management. The LEPs also contributed towards administrative reform geared
      towards the privatization of state owned enterprises such as Afghan Telecom. Such
      reform primarily included initiatives that made these companies more profitable and
      competitive.

   2. Main Challenges faced by LEPs: All the LEPs interviewed highlighted the fact that
      their achievements/contributions were manipulated by the political ambitions of
      immediate seniors who were part of the regular civil service. This pressured hindered job
      performance. Also, the LEPs did not receive recognition for their achievements nor saw
      any prospects for career growth within the ministries they were working for, which is
      related to the fact that the sustainability of the program was not effectively considered.
      There was insufficient coordination across other ministries, which becomes problematic
      when implementing initiatives planned through the Afghan National Development
      Strategy (ANDS). LEPs also felt that leadership within the ministries was weak, which
      resulted in insufficient guidance from senior ministry staff. This is relevant because all
      the LEPs interviewed stated that the tasks assigned to them were daunting. Related to this
      is the fact that a number of LEPs were not taken seriously by their senior counterparts
      because they were younger, or in the case of one respondent, female. Finally, the
      interviewees highlighted the fact that the facilities within the ministries are inadequate to
      successfully implement reform initiatives.

   3. Recruitment process: Interviews with LEPs revealed that the recruitment process was
      time-consuming and cumbersome and there were significant delays in the disbursement
      of salaries. Nevertheless, the respondents point out that the salaries were competitive and
      adequate to encourage a good work ethic. Moreover, the interviews reveal that these
      concerns were addressed through the MCP. Not only was the recruitment process
      simplified, it was transparent, making it more merit based. Nevertheless, despite these
      initiatives, the LEPs argued that there is still room for improving the recruitment process
      by streamlining it.

   4. Recommendations: The respondents made a number of recommendations to improve the
      program and make it more attractive for young Afghans willing and interested to work in
      the civil service. These are as follows:
          a. Regular coordination mechanisms should be established amongst LEPs enabling
               them to share their ideas and experiences; perhaps through web-based forums or
               meetings.
          b. During the recruitment process, the interview panels should consist of more
               qualified staff especially where the recruitment is for a technical expert.




                                               32
c. The focus so far has been on recruitment of a specific number of LEPs not
   necessarily on qualified staff. The emphasis should be on the quality of staff
   hired through the Program.
d. Reform efforts should be more comprehensive, targeting all levels of the
   ministries especially senior and middle-level management, to ensure their
   sustainability.
e. There is a need to recognize and reward good performance to build morale and
   motivation.
f. Regular monitoring mechanisms should be established to assess the contribution
   made by the LEPs.




                                 33
           Annex 7. Summary of Grantee’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                               Islamic Republic of Afghanistan




             Independent Administration Reform and Civil Service Commission
                 General Directorate of Program Design and Management

                             Implementation Completion Report

                              Afghan Expatriate Program (AEP)
                                            and
                                Lateral Entry Program (LEP)
                                         August 2010



                      Compiled and prepared by: Program Department


Background and Context

Ravaged by more than two decades of successive wars, civil, ethnic and political conflicts and the
concomitant collapse of the public sector, the Afghan government and international community
were faced with the fundamental challenge of the reconstruction and redevelopment of the
country’s infrastructure. The restoration of a central administrative apparatus was deemed crucial
in order both to prevent Afghanistan from sliding back to renewed strife and to provide basic
social and political stability for long term development.

In 2002, a proposal was approved by leading international organizations and donor countries for
the establishment of an Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). Managed by the World
Bank, ARTF is a multi-donor trust fund supporting the reconstruction needs and efforts of the
GoA. A major focus of the ARTF was to secure and support the salaries of non-uniformed civil
servants and to ensure that those salaries were paid in a timely fashion.

To address the non-functional public administration and the inadequate public sector salary
levels, a wide-ranging Public Administration Reform (PAR) program was initiated with donor
support. One of major feature of this program was the setting up of an Independent
Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission (IARCSC). The IARCSC was established
with the mandate of defining over-arching civil service policies and also with development of a
meritocratic civil service staffed through a transparent, objective and equitable recruitment and
selection system. In addition, the IARCSC was mandated with the complex and ambitious task
of leading and coordinating the PAR from within its limited resources.




                                               34
A key element of the PAR process was the setting up of Priority Reform and Reconstruction
(PRR) program. The PRR’s major role was, as a matter of urgency, to link a much needed pay
scale reform process with a comprehensive restructuring of key ministries and institutions. The
latter was to be underpinned by an open, fair, and transparent recruitment and selection process
for vital staff in the management and technical areas which was competency based and which
aimed to attract well qualified, competent and experienced individuals.

In order to meet these requirements, the government developed a capacity development
framework which would enable the Afghan Civil Service to:

    •       compete fairly for skilled professional staff;
    •          strengthen critical departments;
    •       reduce the needs for external technical assistance;
    •       and limit the need for donor staffing top-ups which have the inevitable potential for
            undermining loyalty to government institutions.

At the core of the government capacity development framework was the development of
mechanisms to attract competent, skilled and experienced Afghan professionals from both the
private sector in the region and the wider international community, including the staff of NGOs
and UN agencies. This aim was supported by enhanced salaries available under the PRR
superscale.

Project Development Objectives and Design

Thus, two specific initiatives, the Afghan Expatriates Program (AEP) and the Lateral Entry
Program (LEP), were instigated as part of a capacity building framework instituted by the
IARCSC to make the Afghan Civil Service (ACS) more attractive as an employer to high quality
individuals. The ultimate aim was to significantly improve the strategic and operational outputs
of the ACS.

Afghan Expatriate Program (AEP)

Both the government and the international community were cognizant of the considerable
challenges to be faced when trying to restore the institutional and human capacity for planning
and managing the country reconstruction efforts. Recognizing these immense gaps in capacity
development needs, ARTF provided US$10 million in two installments (in 2003 and 2006) for
the AEP.

The AEP’s main aim was to recruit 60 exceptionally well-qualified Afghan expatriates to serve
for a limited period (six months to two years) as senior advisors in certain essential line
ministries. The salaries for the advisor posts attracted ranged from US$500 to US$7,000, which
presented a rate significantly higher than normal civil service rates which averaged up to US$300.
In essence the AEP was a temporary solution to kick-start priority development programmes.

The placement of those advisors was focused on those ministries identified through consultation
with key ministries, government departments and donors. The advisors’ main duties would be
three-fold:

        •     to enhance strategic capacity within the line ministries.



                                                   35
        •   to promote institutional reform to enhance organizational efficiency and managerial
            transparency and rigor.

        •   to act as drivers for the implementation of public investment programs.



Lateral Entry Program (LEP)

Whilst the AEP was designed to attract exceptionally well-qualified expatriate Afghans to serve
as senior advisors to various ministries, the widespread shortage of competent and experienced
civil servants for upper and middle management positions in key ministries had been identified.
This capability shortage posed a significant constraint adversely affecting the delivery of the
country’s reconstruction agenda. To address this major challenge, and in advance of the civil
service grade/pay scale reform initiative, the IARCSC launched the LEP. The proposal submitted
to ARTF requesting a funding of US$64.7 million assuming average contract duration of two
years. From this total, a minimum of US$14.2 million was required to secure the funding of 500
entrants who were to be recruited in the first year. Of this request, an immediate
advance/commitment $3 million was called for to enable the CSC to meet its plan of recruiting
100 lateral entrants in the first six months.

The LEP was a unique program which recruited Afghan professionals to senior and middle
management line positions within ministries and government departments to meet urgent needs at
the national, provincial and district levels. The LEP’s target was to tap into the reservoir of well-
qualified, experienced and competent Afghans from the NGO, UN Agencies and donor-funded
program communities. It was anticipated that an initial 100 individuals would be recruited
during the project’s 6 month pilot phase with an additional 1,400 staff engaged over the life of the
project.

The selected individuals were to be recruited at Afghan Civil Service Grades 2 to 4 on two year
contracts attracting an enhanced salary of up to US$2,000 per month. The key duties of these
posts included:
    •      Providing short to medium term enhanced professional capacity to ministries -
        primarily where the PRR process has been slow to take off.

    •     Laying the foundation for the reform process in ministries and government agencies
        which were not currently under the PRR process.

    •      Training, mentoring and motivating regular post holders to work more effectively and
        more efficiently for the government, thus providing an alternative to the continued
        extensive use of technical assistance and consultants.

An additional benefit of the LEP was that it would normalize the terms and conditions of
employment for a large number of Afghan professionals who were on the payrolls of bilateral
donors or who were donor-funded consultants and contractors but who were, in fact, working as
de facto civil servants in various line ministries.

Along with the submission of LEP initiative the IARCSC proposed that AEP and LEP be
combined into a single project given the complementary nature of the respective roles. The
rationale behind the proposed merger was that both interventions were designed to bring critically
needed public administration capacity to manage the country reconstruction efforts for better
results on the ground. Both AEP and LEP were initiated and implemented by IARCSC and


                                                 36
engaged Afghan professionals to be a part of integral and important part of overall capacity
building. It was also envisaged that lateral entrants would be absorbed by the civil service
following the completion of pay and grade reform.




Implementation and Operational Experience for AEP and LEP

Under the supervision of ARTF Executive Committee, after considerable delay, the first phase of
AEP commenced in July 2004 as an urgent response to low capacity of the ministries. The delay
in project initiation stemmed from debate over the sensitivity surrounding the appropriateness of
the program’s approach in that Afghan experts recruited through the program would be paid
salaries considerably higher than those paid to their routinely-recruited colleagues.

As IARSCS was a newly-established institution with limited staff and capacity to manage this
new initiative, International Organization for Migration (IOM) was contracted as the
Implementation Support Consultant. With a budget of US$ 500,000, IOM was expected for
provision of logistical support in the recruitment process including advertising vacancies,
preparation of individual contracts and managing salary payments. The IOM services did not
continue with the same quality during implementation process and the IOM contract was
discontinued with establishment of a special department called Capacity Development Secretariat
(CDS) under IARCSC, with the mandate for coordinating and implementing AEP, LEP and
government-initiated capacity development programs.

Once the AEP was initiated, the qualified experts were contracted for a period of two years with
terms of reference specifically written to emphasis their advisory functions (including a training
component for counterpart capacity building and with emphasis on the importance of not
undertaking line position core functions).

One particular strength of the AEP was the emphasis on transparent and objective recruitment and
selection procedures which required the involvement of, and input from, numerous ACS bodies.
A project implementation manual was developed to provide guideline and detailed procedure in
recruitment and selection process. This approach went a good way to countering the potential for
allegations of corruption and nepotism in the recruitment and selection of advisors.
Additionally, the process allowed for the establishment of a database of suitable candidates who
were screened against objective experiential and educational eligibility criteria. This is considered
a significant step forward as it is a wealth of data which could be utilized for future programming.
Paradoxically, however, ultimately the multi-agency approach led on occasion to significant
delays in the recruitment process and the loss of high quality candidates.

In common with the AEP, the LEP was implemented in two phases. In the pilot phase the aim
was to recruit 100 lateral entrants. Subsequently, a further 1,400 individuals were to be recruited
to produce a grand total of 1,500 seasoned mid to senior manager level entrants.

The LEP’s Recruitment and Selection process mirrored that of the AEP and therefore shared its
strengths and weaknesses outlined above.

It was agreed at the onset of LEP that Phase I was to serve as a pilot to lay the groundwork for
possible extension and expansion into Phase II. At the end of the pilot phase, there was a plan of



                                                 37
an assessment and in-depth discussion to review the key achievements of LEP prior to the
commencement of Phase II.

The internal assessment among stakeholders in 2007 resulted in a decision to continue the
injection of experts utilizing the lessons learned into a new program intervention called
Management Capacity Program (MCP) with the ARTF funding for the purpose of change and
management capacity development. At that point, there were 138 LEPs and 98 AEPs on board
and their contracts remained valid until their expiration.

Assessment of Project Outcomes and Effectiveness

The first Afghan advisor contracted under the AEP entered service on 1 September 2004. From
the target of 60 technical experts, a total of 98 advisors were placed within key ministries,
including 13 experts (13.3%) in the President’s Office. By the end of the AEP, a total of 19
ministries had benefited from the presence of AEP-funded advisors.

At the core essence, the experts worked along the key ministries to resolve bureaucratic system
and speed up improvement of effective delivery of services. With concentrated efforts in
organizational and capacity building, the AEP experts supported the establishment and promotion
of coordination and communication frameworks, the development of ministries strategies, as well
as national and regional program plans, and facilitated the acceleration of the PRR process. The
experts also involved in providing advice in major significant decision making within the
ministries. The Afghan-origin professionals’ involvement in the country public restructuring
process was a major attraction to the donor community and in turn it provides a significant
pulling factor for more funding for similar initiative.

More generally, the advisors significant contribution in the following management areas has been
widely recognized:
        • Working with Ministries to reduce bureaucracy and speed up delivery and output.
        • Developing capacity through the provision of professional seminars, workshops and
           on-the-job training.
        • Active participation in the drafting and production of numerous ministerial policies,
           strategies, development plans and regional plans.
        • Promoting increased liaison and consultation between ministries, departments and
           other governmental and non-governmental entities.


The distribution of AEP experts in various government agencies and ministries is shown in the
graphic below.
                                                                                       Agriculture and Livestock
                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                   Anti-Corruption and Bridery Comssion
                                                                                                  3.6%
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                         Youth Affairs
                                                                                                                                   0.7%
                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                        Attorney General
                                                                                             1.4%
                                                                                                                                3
                                                                              Urban Development                               2.2%
                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                            Border and Tribal Affaris
                                                                                    2.2%
                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                      Transport                                                     0.7%
                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                Commerce and Industries
                                                                        6.5%
                                                                                                                                          3
                                   Science Academy of Afghanistan                                                                       2.2%
                                                 1
                                                                                                                                    Economic
                                               0.7%
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                Public Health                                                                         0.7%
                                                      6
                                                                                                                                           Education
                                                   4.3%
                                                                                                                                               6
           Office of the Senior Minister to the Presidnet                                                                                    4.3%
                                 2
                               1.4%                                                                                                                     Energy and Water
                           Office of the President                                                                                                             13
                                     11                                                                                                                      9.4%
                                   8.0%




                                                                                                                                                            Finance

                   Office of Administrative Aff aris
                                14
                                                                                                         38                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                             6.5%
                                                                                                                                                          Forign Affairs
                              10.1%
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                        Mines                                                                                                 0.7%
                                                          4                                                                                             General Administration of Geodesy and Cartography
                                                        2.9%                                                                                                                     1
                                                       IT and Communication                                                                                                    0.7%
Viewing from perspective of complex context of Afghanistan reconstruction and development,
which fell short in human capacity, both in terms of number and qualifications, the capacity
building projects was put on higher risk platform, in comparison to normal long-term
development programs. As a short-term measure, it was apparent that LEP brought positive
impacts in bringing well-qualified experts in key line positions. Though there were areas of
improvement, like any program of similar nature, the IARCSC and LEP management strived to
go beyond achieving the strategic objectives set out in the proposal. The LEP provided a window
to support PAR process by using an open and competence-based selection for vital staff in the
management and technical positions within the government agencies and ministries

From a review of previous relevant reports and documentation, from interviews with several key
senior individuals in the Afghan government and from internal assessment, it is undeniably
apparent that there have been numerous key successes. The project has delivered significant
benefits across a whole range of key ministries. Below are merely a few examples of specific
achievements, in which AEP advisors have been pivotal, among others, include:

    •   The establishment of diagnostic centres in 8 regions including the provision of essential
        medical equipment and laboratories for the Ministry of Public Health.
    •   The production of a 5 year investment plan for the Irrigation Sector in the Ministry of
        Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation.
    •   The capacity development of the technical staff of Agriculture Research Institute to be
        able to develop policies and strategies for research activities, and preparation of
        proposals and concept papers.
    •   The development of 5-year master plan, which includes national and regional plans, for
        the Ministry of Agriculture.
    •   The establishment of a computerized system of documentation management in the
        Ministry of Higher Education and the computerization of the entry examination for
        graduate and postgraduate programs.
    •   The training of 34 doctors and 102 inoculators across 31 provinces for the Ministry of
        Public Health.
    •   The establishment of a comprehensive Publication Strategy for the Ministry of
        Communication and Information Technology.
    •   The drafting of a new Education Law for the Ministry of Education.
    •   The development of 10-year strategic plan for Community College.

On the LEP side, the initial pilot phase was extremely successful with a total of 138 new recruits
engaged – an over-achievement of 38% against the initial target. An analysis of this total shows
positions filled in 24 ministries and the Office of the President within the approved budget
allocation. At the end of the phase there was a joint executive decision to concentrate on honoring



                                                39
the ongoing advisors’ contracts but to discontinue new recruitments. From LEP experience, an
ARTF funded new intervention named Management Capacity Program (MCP) emerged.

As with the AEP, professionals recruited under the LEP made a significant contribution to the
output of the ministries and departments to which they were assigned. By virtue of their grade
level and associated duties, their focus was, by necessity, more on operational issues. The
significant achievements of LEP include:

    •   The support to the ministries/agencies in developing long-term and short-term strategies
        in accordance to the objectives of ANDS, Afghanistan Compact and MDGs.
    •   The promotion of better management mechanism and systems by supporting the
        implementation of administrative reform and restructuring and PRR, and particularly in
        the human resources, financial management, administrative and project management
        functions.
    •   Finalization of plan for the second phase of PRR implementation in the Ministry of
        Commerce and Industries.
    •   The implementation of an anti-corruption program at the Ministry of Finance in which
        over 1400 ministry staff were trained.
    •    The establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation framework for the office of
        Administrative Affairs.
    •   The development of a new technology and information system within the Ministry of
        Transport.
    •   The identification of challenges concerning the implementation of PRR for IARCSC and
        the provision of associated recommendations.
    •   The provision of training regarding plant protection to research and technical staff of the
        Ministry of Agriculture.
    •   The implementation of credit system and change of curriculum in the Ministry of Higher
        Education.
    •   The signing of MoU with eleven international universities to facilitate capacity building
        and exchange programs for teachers and students.

The chart below reflects the wide-spread allocation of LEP experts.


                                                    TRANSPORT
                                                       1        URBAN DEVELOPMENT
                                                      1.0%                7
                                       SCIENCE ACADEMY                7.1%
                                                 1                                  AGRICULTURE
                                               1.0%                                     12
                                           PUBLIC WORKS                               12.2%
                                                1                                                     COMMERCE
                                              1.0%                                                         3
                              PUBLIC HEALTH                                                              3.1%
                                       6                                                                  COMMUNICATION
                                   6.1%                                                                            2
                                                                                                                 2.0%
                                                                                                                 EDUCATION
             PRESIDENT OFFICE                                                                                          8
                   13                                                                                                 8.2%
                  13.3%



                                                                                                                 ENERGY AND WATER
                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                           2.0%
                               MRRD                                                                            FINANCE
                                   4                                                                              7
                               4.1%                                                                             7.1%
              MINES AND INDUSTRIES                                                                   FOREIGN AFFAIRS
                          1                                                                                5
                        1.0%                                                                              5.1%
                  KABUL MUNICIPALITY                                                   HIGHER EDUCATION
                               2                                                               5
                              2.0%                                                            5.1%
                 INFORMATION AND CULTURE                          IARCSC
                                   3                               15
                               3.1%                                40
                                                                  15.3%
Furthermore, it has been unanimous in agreed that the efforts of the LEP recruited staff have
contributed greatly to the implementation of administrative reform, PRR and ongoing
organizational re-structuring. In particular, their efforts in the fields of human resource, financial,
administrative and project management have been instrumental in moving forward the work of
their ministries.

It has been well acknowledged that in comparing with the proposed targets, the achievements of
AEP and LEP were well above the objectives as shown below:

                 Proposed Target           Achievements              Percentage of
                                                                     Achievements
      AEP        60 Expert Advisors        98 Expert Advisors        163% Achievement
      LEP        100 Experts               138 Experts               138% Achievement


Lessons Learned

The major achievement of both LEP and AEP, which underlines the importance and success of
the initiative was the kick-starting of the process of bringing Afghan professionals and associated
expertise into the ACS to increase capacity , be it in advisory or line management positions.
Several individuals remained in service with the ACS and are currently working in very senior
positions including ministerial appointments such as Minister of Finance, Chief Justice of
Afghanistan, Minister of Mines, current Chief of Security Counsel and ex Minister of Foreign
Affairs, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Minister IDLG, Attorney General, Minister
of Hajj and Religious Affairs, Director General, High Office of Oversight on Anti-corruption.
The continued employment of these high quality individuals is a prime indicator of the significant
contribution to sustainability that has been at the core of the AEP and LEP programs. Equally
important is the impact the programs made in terms of laying down the groundwork in
preparation for the Management Capacity Program (MCP) which represented the next
evolutionary step in the AEP/LEP process and which encompassed a more clearly-defined
administrative approach and enhanced managerial rigor; for example, in terms of performance
metrics which were more relevant and more closely monitored.

Unsurprisingly, the elements of the LEP that could have been improved are identical to the
structural and administrative issues outlined above with reference to the AEP. In neither case
should these concerns detract from the overall success of the project.

Along with major achievements, there were areas where the projects lacked rigor in terms of
design and implementation:

       •    Needs Assessment.
            There is no evidence that an in-depth needs assessment took place prior to design of
            both projects. There was undeniably requirement for immense needs capacity building
            of the public administrative sector. However, it seems that the Terms of Reference


                                                  41
           developed for advisors were developed based on the perceived rather than actual
           needs.

       •   Monitoring and Evaluation.
           Neither project design included Monitoring and Evaluation strategies and
           mechanisms, (including the detailing of expected results) to measure performance in
           achieving project objectives. A Project Implementing Manual (PIM) was developed,
           albeit in a very limited capacity with an apparent aim of primarily measuring process
           and procedure particularly in terms of recruitment and selection processes; it was
           inadequate in terms of monitoring the overall project performance and associated
           milestones. According to the PIM, the initial step in the AEP process is to identify
           critical gaps in a ministry’s capacity needs. The implementation of this step seems, at
           best, patchy. Similarly, there is no evidence of any independent performance audit
           being undertaken of either the AEP generally or individual advisors’ activities and
           outputs specific.

       •   Gender Inclusion.
           The projects did not specifically promote gender mainstreaming. Thus, there was no
           measure in place to monitor the achievement in this area as the number of female
           applicants and successful candidates remained low.

       •   Performance Management of Individual Advisors.
           It is apparent that the performance of many of the individual advisers was not actively
           monitored or managed centrally. There was no mechanism in place to assess the
           performance of individual advisors. The advisors reported solely to their host ministry
           and there was no reporting relationship back to the project management team. As a
           result, there is much anecdotal evidence of advisors deviating from their original terms
           of reference and working on non-AEP related projects at the instruction of senior
           ministry staff.

       •   Conversely, it was reported that advisors found it difficult in that there was no system
           for central project management, feedback and support in place. When advisors
           encountered challenges in performing their tasks, or faced with communication
           problems with their supervisors, they could neither channel it upwards to project
           management nor receive support formally from the project as an operational reporting
           mechanism was non-existence.

       •   The Recruitment and Selection Policy.
           The recruitment and selection policy, whilst praiseworthy in its commitment to
           transparency, objectivity and fairness, became overly complicated and bureaucratic.
           The prior review process by the World Bank added into delays which inevitably led to
           delays in recruitment and it possibly resulted in the loss of high quality potential
           recruits. The extant AEP recruitment’ flowchart is shown in the PIM.

       •   Building partnerships, networking, sharing ideas and knowledge platform was lacking.
           There was limited synergy with other existing capacity building intervention.

Though AEP and LEP produced significant achievements the critical context of the Afghanistan
that period of time, considerable lesson learned from AEP and LEP laid the foundation to the
birth of a more solid and well defined project of Management Capacity Program (MCP). Among



                                                42
other key features of MCP, the positions are categorized to fit into specific criteria, the functions
of the appointee will support particular organizational common functions, the posts are not
advisors, but in line position functions which reflect more weight in hierarchical authority for
implementation, as supposed only give advice.

Recommendations and Conclusion

In the event of a similar project being considered in the future, there are 5 recommendations that
it is believed would increase significantly the effectiveness of the program. Unsurprisingly, these
recommendations center on the weaknesses identified above in relation to the administration of
the projects:
          • A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit be established in the early stages of the project to
              advise and train counterparts on the methods used to assess expeditiously, objectively
              and effectively the comparative capacity gaps and requirements of individual
              ministries and other government organizations. Subsequently, the unit should
              review, monitor and audit the progress made by both ministries and individual
              advisors throughout the project cycle to ensure the capacity is transferred to team
              members as well as institution capacity is enhanced by establishing systems and
              developing sound procedures.

        •   Gender mainstreaming should be given a higher priority in relation to advisor
            recruitment.

        •   Capacity development is a long term process with required long-term intervention.
            In the future, consideration should be given to the extension of contract length,
            depending on the specific needs which could be defined from need assessment. The
            scope and scale of the challenges facing the advisors are such that a two year contract
            period is potentially too short a time frame to effect real, lasting strategic
            development and capacity transfer.

        •   With the support of technical assistance, it is necessary to establish systems and tools
            to conduct standardized, effective performance appraisals of appointees which
            include the setting of performance goals and objectives which should flow directly
            from the relevant, published job description.

        •   Consideration should be given to re-designing the recruitment and selection model
            with the aim of retaining those elements which ensure equity of treatment for all
            candidates and transparency of process whilst reducing the capacity for delays and
            the potential loss of high quality candidates. Specialist HR support should be sought
            in this regard.

        •   The level of Afghan ownership should be increased by delegating the process review
            to the implementing agency which also reduces the delays, and will help to meet the
            needs of Ministries in an efficient and on a timely manner.

        •   Consolidation of program in critical ministries with enhanced focus on with enhanced
            focus on creating permanent improvements within the organization, alignment with
            the development priorities and synchronizing with public sector reforms

        •   The CB programs need an efficient, responsive support structure/procedures (like
            newly established GDPDM) that coordinate, communicate and cooperate with all



                                                 43
            stake-holders especially with the donors and visibly incorporate the best of their
            suggestions

        •   Any future program needs to initiate a continuing proactive talent search and create a
            segregated data base of skilled people

        •   There should consider the continuing-education aspects of capacity building through
            open website with short para training background, online learning, or fellowships or
            internships or graduate-study abroad programs etc. In other words, creating a
            knowledge platform more broadly available to civil servants


Overall, the AEP has proved to be a resounding success. The program was expected to recruit
only 60 advisors under its auspices. The fact that some professionals were actually recruited (an
increase of G% on the initial target) is a significant achievement.

The LEP had proved to be similarly productive and it has produced many highly skilled and
motivated individuals whose contribution to reconstruction and capacity building is praiseworthy.
Furthermore, there is no doubt that the output of this cadre of highly motivated, high quality AEP
and LEP individuals has contributed greatly to the ongoing professional development - and allied
capacity-building - of the ACS and to the reconstruction of the country’s public infrastructure.
Though AEP and LEP were completed, a number of those experts remain within the government
structure and undertaking line functions to provide contribution to the greater development effort
of GoA

Within the timeframe of the start of AEP and LEP, the context of reconstruction and reform
efforts consisted of many components ranging from institutional development, operational
effectiveness, project planning and design, as well as filling in the gaps of the non-existence or
limited functions capabilities. Like in any other institutional strengthening, capacity building and
capacity transfer program and training, it requires detailed and long process of planning, and
complex intervention with long term horizon. AEP and LEP were merely short interim measures
to address capacity inadequacy in the reform process. As such, considering the urgency and
temporary nature of the project initiatives, within the framework of government framework to
provide a window to generate critical professional resource pool to fill the gap of functional
capabilities within public administration, AEP and LEP significantly achieved beyond the scope
of the project objectives.

Furthermore, the foundations laid by, and the lessons learnt from, the AEP and the LEP
contributed directly and significantly to the inception and growth of the General Directorate of
Programs’ Design and Management (GDPDM). The establishment of GDPDM is considered to
be one element of sustainability, from which the future government-initiated capacity building
program are designed, planned and implemented. In turn, the GDPDM has proved to be pivotal to
the ongoing successes in the area of Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-managed
developmental initiatives.

In summation, there is great value in continuing with a similar capacity building initiatives along
the lines of the AEP and the LEP. The Afghan government, its ministries and its staff all
benefited hugely both in terms of organizational productivity and individual effectiveness. As
shown below, AEP and LEP provided the genesis for the MCP, which in turn is the foundation
for a permanent senior civil service group. The problem was that the short term aims were not




                                                44
sufficiently mapped against possible longer term trajectory/ies along which the Afghan civil
service could have evolved.




                                            45
                                    Annex 8: ISR ratings

The ISR ratings for the project


          Afghanistan, ARTF-Civil Service Capacity Building (Project ID:P086228)

                                         ISR           ISR        ISR      F
          PDO                               S             S             MU
          S      DO                         S             S             MU
          O   IP                            S             S             MU
          F     M                          MS            MS             MS
          P M                               S             S             MU
          C        F                        S             S              S
          P                                 S             S              S
          M          E                     MS            MS             U
          P   C      R
                  AEP                     MS            MS              MS
                  LEP                      S            S               MS




                                                46
MAP


INSERT

MAP

HERE



AFTER APPROVAL BY COUNTRY DIRECTOR

AN ORIGINAL MAP OBTAINED FROM GSD MAP DESIGN UNIT

SHOULD BE INSERTED

MANUALLY IN HARD COPY

BEFORE SENDING A FINAL ICR TO THE PRINT SHOP.




NOTE: To obtain a map, please contact

the GSD Map Design Unit (Ext. 31482)

A minimum of a one week turnaround is required




                                            47
