Report No. PID10699
Project Name                     CAPE VERDE-HIV/AIDS PROJECT
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           HIV/AIDS
Project ID                       CVPE74249
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE
Implementing Agency
Address OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER
Address: Palacio do Governo,
Praia, Santiago,
Republic of Cape Verde
Contact Person: His Excellency Jose
Maria Pereira Neves
Tel: (238) 610513
Fax: (238) 613099
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                September 23, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 01,  2001
Projected Board Date             March 01, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The first cases of HIV/AIDS were reported in Cape Verde in 1986. The main
mechanism of transmission of HIV in Cape Verde is by heterosexual
transmission, although mother to child transmission (MTCT) also
significantly contributes to new cases among children. There are some
anecdotal reports suggesting that injecting drug abuse may be on the rise
in the country and that it may also be contributing to some HIV
infections. Continuous data on sero-prevalence in the country is however
not available as the sentinel surveillance system in the country has not
been operating since 1998 due to lack of financial resources to sustain
the system. In 1997 when the last sentinel surveillance data was
available, general population prevalence of HIV was estimated between 1.5%
and 2.5%. However, this figure is likely to have increased since then.The
Government of Cape Verde has formed a national coordinating body for
HIV/AIDS, 'The Coordination Committee to Combat AIDS (CCS-SIDA)' which is
under the office of the Prime Minister and is presided by the Prime
Minister himself. The Government is in the process of finalizing a
national multisectoral HIV/AIDS strategy for Cape Verde, with the
objective of reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS in the country. The strategy
development process is all inclusive with the participation of Central
Government, Municipality Governments, NGOs and international donors.Role
of NGOsKey areas of HIV/AIDS NGO activity in Cape Verde are mainly in
Information Education and Communication (IEC). Many NGOs, especially the
small ones, may need substantial investments in capacity building and the
umbrella NGO organization in Cape Verde, 'the NGO Platform' has experience
in capacity building of small NGOs in the country, which experience can be
utilized for developing HIV/AIDS capacity in the NGO community. The NGO
platform is well regarded in Cape Verde by both the Government and the NGO



community and has an elected leadership which has been consulted on
several occasions during the development of this project.
PartnershipsMulti- and bilateral development partners in Cape Verde have
been actively engaged and informed of the proposed project, the MAP
approach and consulted on the project's design. None of the bilateral
partners has so far been involved in addressing HIV/AIDS issues in a
multisectoral approach but they have supported activities limited to the
health sector. Nevertheless, interest has been expressed by some bilateral
partners in either being directly involved in the project or undertaking
activities to complement the project. WHO and UNAIDS theme group have been
active in assisting the Government in its formulation of multisectoral
HIV/AIDS strategy and have been requested to be formal partners in
preparation missions.Government request:The Government of Cape Verde has
asked for the assistance of international partners, including the World
Bank, in efforts to reduce the transmission of HIV/AIDS in the country,
which is rapidly increasing as shown by the number of cases being
reported.The Government of Cape Verde, represented by the Office of the
Prime Minister, is committed to leading the fight against HIV/AIDS in the
country, and has requested access to IDA resources within the framework of
the MAP. The Government has appointed one of the existing IDA project
coordination units - Programa de Infra-Estruturas e Transportes (PIT) - as
a counterpart to the Bank in preparation of the project.
2. Objectives
The project will support the goal of the national HIV/AIDS strategy of
Government of Cape Verde (in the process of being finalized) which is to
reduce the spread of HIV infection in the country. As a means of achieving
this goal, the project will also support the following areas:a) mitigation
of the health and socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS at individual,
household and community levels thus sustaining an economically productive
population; andb) building strong and sustainable national capacity to
respond to the epidemic.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has the unique position of being able to give support to a
country in more than one sector, and having identified HIV/AIDS as a
development issue, is well positioned to support Cape Verde in a
multisectoral war-like effort to control HIV/AIDS, as envisaged in the MAP
approach.
4. Description
The project, under the regional Multi-Country AIDS Program for Africa,
will finance HIV/AIDS activities for the period 2002-2006. It will have
four components, which reflect the two-tiered decentralized administrative
structure in Cape Verde at national and municipality level. The components
are:l.National public sector initiatives2.Municipality public sector
initiatives3.Civil society initiatives4.Project coordinationGeneralThe
project will scale up the existing HIV/AIDS Control Program by
mainstreaming program activities into line ministries and other agencies
at national and municipality levels and by harnessing the capacity of
communities, civil society organizations, including associations of people
living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), religious organizations, Non-Government
Organizations (NGOs), Community Based Organizations (CBOs), private sector
organizations, women's organizations, youth organizations and labor
unions. Project component 1: Capacity BuildingCapacity building for the
- 2 -



public sector at both the national and municipality level, as well as for
civil society organizations and the private sector to respond to
HIV/AIDS.Project component 2: Public Sector Initiatives (National and
Municipal)a) National level HIV/AIDS Initiatives. The project will
support HIV/AIDS control activities coordinated at national level and will
include the HIV/AIDS activities of different line ministries or central
government agencies, or contracted out to civil society organizations or
the private sector. Each ministry will be expected to have an HIV/AIDS
focal person. As part of the multisectoral approach to HIV/AIDS, every
Government ministry, will be expected to have, as a minimum, a mechanism
for HIV/AIDS IEC for its employees and an HIV/AIDS social support network.
b) Municipal level HIV/AIDS Initiatives. Under this component, the
project will support activities which are directly carried out by
municipal authorities, or contracted out by them to civil society
organizations or to the private sector. This support will include the full
spectrum of HIV/AIDS preventive, treatment, care and support that can be
delivered at municipal level.Project component 3: Civil Society and
Private Sector InitiativesUnder this component, the project will support
private sector and community-led HIV control activities directly carried
out, or contracted out, by civil society organizations, such as NGOs,
religious organizations, organizations of Persons Living With HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA).Component 4: Project coordinationThe functions of the Secretariat
of CCS-SIDA will specifically be funded under this component. The
Secretariat will be a lean structure and staffed and designed to
facilitate and coordinate project execution, with the implementation of
project activities being done by the respective Ministries, municipalities
and civil society organizations. The main responsibilities of the
Secretariat will be coordination, liaison, supervision, monitoring,
evaluation and coordination of longer term national planning and policy
support.
5. Financing
Total                           ( US$m)
BORROWER                         1.00
IDA                              10.00
Bilateral                        0.25
Multilateral                     0.25
Total Project Cost               11.5
6. Implementation
Institutional arrangementsThe Cape Verde CCS-SIDA and its Secretariat,
which will be under the Office of the Prime Minister, will facilitate and
coordinate the overall National HIV/AIDS program and project activities,
and not play an implementing role. The Secretariat of CCS-SIDA, will be
responsible for day-to-day activities of CCS-SIDA. In light of good
financial and procurement capacity in the public sector, the project will
contract in experienced project coordination team (PCT) to undertake
financial management and assist in larger procurement. An advisory body
for CCS-SIDA, that will include representatives from key sectors and
institutions as well as representatives from key civil society
organizations including those which represent people living with HIV/AIDS,
will be established. Line ministries will implement their respective
HIV/AIDS plans and report regularly to CCS-SIDA on agreed input and output
indicators. Municipality HIV/AIDS work plans will reflect various sector
activities to be implemented at municipality level. Each municipality will
- 3-



establish a municipality HIV/AIDS Committee, composed of heads of
department and representatives of civil society organizations. The
municipality HIV/AIDS Committee will ensure coordination between HIV/AIDS
activities led by various stakeholders in the municipality. Civil society
organizations can be contracted by municipalities to implement
municipality led project activities, in addition to activities within the
civil society project component. Project implementationThe project will
finance a series of HIV/AIDS plans presented by line ministries and
municipalities, as well as a large number of civil society-led HIV/AIDS
Initiatives.The project will be implemented in an incremental manner,
starting with those ministries, municipalities, communities and NGOs which
already have HIV/AIDS workplans. With time project coverage will be scaled
up and expanded to more sectors, communities and NGOs as the project
assists these entities in strengthening their implementing capacity. The
Project Operational Manual (POM), which will be developed in consultation
with stakeholders, will describe in detail the project's institutional and
implementation arrangements, and in particular criteria for funding
proposals under the civil society component. Project monitoring,
supervision and evaluation:Project monitoring and evaluation will be based
on a broad range of measures, including impact indicators and more
intermediate process and output measures to capture project performance in
the more immediate term. Project impact will be measured employing data
from HIV/AIDS sentinel surveillance, baseline and end-point
population-based surveys on knowledge, attitudes, practices and behavior.
Service utilization and special studies commissioned to assess impact in
specific areas not easily addressed by population-based surveys will also
be used. Monitoring of the project will be carried out using project-based
data, beneficiary inputs and program reviews. The Cape Verde
CCS-SIDA/Secretariat through contracting will monitor overall project
implementation, assessing the performance of project implementation as
well as the effectiveness and efficiency of implementation at national,
municipality, and civil society levels. Procurement proceduresThe Cape
Verde CCS-SIDA, line ministries and municipalities will procure works,
goods and services in relation to the respective activities, in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999), in particular Section 3.15, Community Participation in
Procurement. Consulting services by firms, organizations, or individuals
financed by IDA will be contracted in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The
Government will contract one or more procurement agents to carry out the
procurement of large items, such as condoms, diagnostic kits and
pharmaceuticals for the diagnosis and clinical management of HIV/AIDS,
sexually transmitted infections and opportunistic infections, including
tuberculosis. Financial managementThe project will have a viable financial
management and accounting system, including a comprehensive Manual of
Financial Procedures, Chart of Accounts and fully integrated project
financial and accounting system, using appropriate accounting software.
The Project Coordination Team (PCT) will include a financial manager and
controller and will put in place an appropriate financial and accounting
system for the project. Similar institutional strengthening measures will
be taken with regard to capacity in line ministries and municipalities
where such intervention is needed. Capacity building in financial
management in the civil society will be supported through the
-4 -



collaborating civil society organizations and community based
organizations. The project will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. Each implementing agency will submit quarterly
financial reports to Cape Verde CCS-SIDA. The PCT will consolidate all
project financial reports submitted by the implementing agencies and
prepare the project financial statements for auditing purposes. Audited
project financial statements and report thereon, inclusive of an auditor's
opinion on the use of statement of expenditures will be submitted to IDA
within six months following the end of the financial year.
7. Sustainability
The project is expected to be sustainable in the medium term because it is
built upon strong government ownership and supports the expansion of
HIV/AIDS activities that involve communities, civil society organizations
and in particular, organizations of people living with HIV/AIDS. The
project will scale up existing HIV/AIDS activities by mainstreaming
activities into all government sectors and civil society, and by tapping
into community organization resources. The project emphasizes
institutional capacity building at national and local level which would
further enhance the sustainability of the project. As far as financial
sustainability is concerned, it is unlikely that the Government will be
able to fully finance the program in the mid-term. It is realistic to
expect that bilateral and multilateral development agencies will continue
to finance HIV/AIDS activities in the country beyond the period of project
implementation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
International experience on HIV/AIDS, and especially regional experience
from countries like Uganda and Senegal, ongoing HIV/AIDS control efforts
in Cape Verde, and the experience so far obtained in the Africa region, in
designing and implementing the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) has
been reflected in the design of this project. Among the key lessons
learnt, are: the need for political leadership and commitment, the need to
address vulnerability factors, the clear role of civil society, the value
of the multisectoral approach to HIV/AIDS, the need to address the
complexity of supervising MAP projects, the relevance of robust monitoring
and evaluation in MAP projects and the need to limit the role of National
HIV/AIDS Secretariats to coordination in order to avoid the 'command and
control' tendencies of some of them.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project is not expected to generate substantial
environmental effects. Possible environmental risks include inappropriate
handling and disposal of medical waste and inadequate management of the
respective disposal sites in urban or peri-urban areas, where domestic and
medical waste may be mixed. The project will finance training of health
care professionals and community workers delivering care to HIV/AIDS
patients. This training will include instruction on appropriate
separation, transport and disposal of hazardous medical waste. The project
will finance the revision of existing health sector guidelines on
appropriate management of medical waste at medical facilities and at
disposal sites to include the relevant sections regarding HIV/AIDS.A
consultant will be engaged during project preparation to assist the
- 5-



government in developing a Medical Waste Management Plan, completion of
which will be required prior to project effectiveness. The project will
include measures and financing to implement the Medical Waste Management
Plan.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Gylfi Palsson
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-6713
Fax: 202-473-8038
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:(202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 12, 2001.
Lucy Njuguna
L:\12 Oct-01\pO74249.txt
XXX 0, 0000 0:00 AM
-6-



