Report No. 23177
Report No: I074249 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/16/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CAPE VERDE      Project ID: P074249
Project: CAPE VERDE - HIV/AIDS PROJECT Task Team Leader: Gylfi Palsson
Appraisal Date: December 20, 2001        IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: March 28, 2002       IDA Amount ($m): 10.00
Managing Unit: AFTTR     Sector: HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project will support the goal of the national HIV/AIDS strategy of
Government of Cape Verde (in the process of being finalized) which is to
reduce the spread of HIV infection in the country. As a means of achieving
this goal, the project will also support the following areas:
a) mitigation of the health and socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS at
individual, household and community levels thus sustaining an economically
productive population; and
b) build strong and sustainable national capacity to respond to the
epidemic.
The Government of Cape Verde proposes to attain its goal by guiding,
financing and supporting the implementation of a multi-sector response to
HIV/AIDS with the participation of all line ministries, civil society and
communities.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project, under the regional Multi-Country AIDS Program for Africa,
will finance HIV/AIDS activities for the period 2002-2006. It will have
four components, which reflect the two-tiered decentralized administrative
structure in Cape Verde at national and municipality level. The components
thus allow for division between public sector and civil society while at
the same time taking into account the geographical and social separation
of the Cape Verdean island communities. Apart from the component on
project coordination, which will support facilitation and coordination of
the project, each of the other components will support the full spectrum
of HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, care and support activities that are
appropriate at the respective level. The project components are:
1.National public sector initiatives
2.Municipality public sector initiatives
3.Civil society initiatives
4.Project coordination
General



The project will scale up the existing HIV/AIDS Control Program by
mainstreaming program activities into line ministries and other agencies
at national and municipality levels and by harnessing the capacity of
communities, civil society organizations, including associations of people
living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), religious organizations, Non-Government
Organizations (NGOs), Community Based Organizations (CBOs), private sector
organizations, women's organizations, youth organizations and labor
unions.
Activities to be supported by the project will be coordinated by CCS-SIDA,
which will be supported by a Secretariat. Implementation of the activities
will be at different organizational levels including implementation by
line ministries, municipalities, community-led and civil society
organizations, and private sector organizations. Sub-contracting by
ministries and municipalities will be encouraged in order to make the best
use of the implementation capacity of civil society organizations and the
private sector. Activities to be supported will include (a) health
promotion activities targeted at behavior change to reduce the
transmission of HIV, (b) diagnosis, treatment, care and support for PLWHA
and others affected by the epidemic, (c) mitigation of the impact of
HIV/AIDS, and (d) operational research, surveillance, monitoring and
evaluation, to strengthen national and local capacity to respond
effectively and efficiently to the epidemic.
Project component 1: National Public Sector Initiatives
The project will support HIV/AIDS control activities coordinated at
national level and will include the HIV/AIDS activities of different line
ministries or central government agencies, or contracted out to civil
society organizations or the private sector. Each ministry will be
expected to have a focal person. As part of the multisectoral approach to
HIV/AIDS, every Government ministry, including the respective ministry's
community level representative authority, will be expected to have, as a
minimum, a mechanism for HIV/AIDS IEC for its employees and an HIV/AIDS
social support network. Ministries with no HIV/AIDS strategic and action
plans, will be assisted by the project to draft these documents during the
first year of project implementation. Each line Ministry work plan will
include HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation activities for its staff, and
in particular, measures to control HIV/AIDS in the work place. Many of
these activities will be contracted at national level but will be carried
out at municipality or even community level. Specific sectoral Ministry
responsibilities are outlined in annex 4 of this document.
Project component 2: Municipality public sector initiatives
Under this component, the project will support activities which are
directly carried out by municipal authorities, or contracted out by them
to civil society organizations or to the private sector, including:
Raise awareness of municipal leadership, teachers, school management teams
and community leaders
Train and support municipality and community-based staff and leaders,
including teachers, home-care givers, counselors, and rural extension
workers in HIV/AIDS prevention and care;
Provide HIV/AIDS related health promotion and prevention services at all
municipal health facilities;
-2-



Provide HIV/AIDS related diagnosis, treatment and care at municipal health
facilities;
Promote community-led and civil society-led HIV/AIDS initiatives and
manage the respective selection, contracting, financing and supervision;
Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom
distribution to the municipality workforce;
Support municipality HIV/AIDS teams in prevention care and support
activities;
Ensure the provision of voluntary counseling and testing services at the
municipal level;
Ensure the provision of services for the syndromic treatment of sexually
transmitted diseases and DOTS for Tuberculosis at municipal level.
Many of the activities financed under this component will directly support
activities carried out at community level, i.e.advocacy, training,
promotion of community led HIV/AIDS Initiatives and DOTS.
Component 3: Civil Society initiatives
Under this component, the project will support community-led HIV control
activities directly carried out, or contracted out, by civil society
organizations, such as NGOs, religious organizations, organizations of
PLWHA. Such activities include:
Targeted support to orphans, guardians of poor orphans and AIDS-stricken
impoverished households, including those headed by females, children and
elderly due to death of spouse, parent or guardian. In addition,
preschool, in-school and out-of-school orphans will be supported to attend
day care centers, formal schooling and vocational training;
Support to families affected by HIV/AIDS including the support of revenue
generating activities;
Community-based information, education and communication (IEC);
Home-based care;
Promotion of the use of condoms at community level;
Support of community based HIV/AIDS networks in prevention, care and
support activities;
Capacity building for civil society organizations to respond to HIV/AIDS
in the communities.
The project's Operational Manual will include a full menu of eligible
sub-projects, as well as a list of sub-projects and activities which
cannot be financed under the project. The Manual will further describe how
to get technical assistance to develop a sub-project, how to apply for a
subsidy, how sub-projects will be selected and approved, how funds will be
transferred, and how a sample of sub-projects will be supervised, audited
and evaluated.
Component 4: Project coordination
The functions of the Secretariat of CCS-SIDA will specifically be funded
under this component. The Secretariat will be lean structures and staffed
and designed to facilitate and coordinate project execution, with the
implementation of most project activities being done by the respective
Ministries, civil society organizations, municipalities and communities.
The main responsibilities of the Secretariat will be coordination,
liaison, supervision, monitoring, evaluation and coordination of longer
term national planning and policy support.
- 3-



Components:
1. National public sector initiatives
2.Municipality public sector initiatives
3.Civil Society initiatives
4.Project coordination
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)        No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
- 4 -



II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The project complies with all Bank's safeguard policies, including those
described above.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The Cape Verde HIV/AIDS Project was developed in consultation with the
Cape Verde national, municipality and community leaders. During project
preparation, consensus-building exercises have and will involve major
stakeholders, including workshops to gain consensus around the project
concept document, project design and implementation arrangements.
During project implementation, communities will be able to express their
needs through Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives and to participate as
active partners in project implementation, adding ownership, transparency
and accountability to the project.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[   S3. - No safeguard issues
[   SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
- 5 -



Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Gylfi Palsson
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:
Sector Manager/Director:         Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



