                                       Documentof
                                     The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                   ReportNo: 37423-CV




                                    PROJECTPAPER

                                           ONA

                 PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT

                      INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR3.4MILLION
                           (US$5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

                                          FORA

                                  HIV/AIDSPROJECT

                                   November27,2006




HumanDevelopmentI1
CountryDepartment 14
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceo f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange RateEffectiveOctober2006)

                            CurrencyUnit = CapeVerde Escudo(CVE)
                                    US$1 = CVE81


                                    FISCALYEAR
                               January 1   - December31

                         ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AIDS  AcquiredImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
ARV   Anti-retroviralDrugs
CAS   CountryAssistance Strategy
CBO   Community-basedOrganization
ccs-  Comite de CoordinapTo do Combate a SIDA (CoordinationCommitteeto CombatAIDS)
SIDA
HIV   HumanImmonodeficiencyVirus
FM    FinancialManagement
FMR   FinancialManagementReporting
IDA   InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IEC   Information, Education,andCommunication
IDSR  Inquerito Demografico e de Saude Reproductiva (DemographicReproductiveHealth Survey)
MAP   Multi-CountryHIV/AIDS Program
M&E   MonitoringandEvaluation
NGO   Non-GovernmentalOrganization
PLWHA PersonLivingwithHIV/AIDS
SIL   Specific InvestmentLoan
STI   SexuallyTransmittedInfection
UN    UnitedNations
VCT   Voluntary CounselingandTesting
WHO   WorldHealthOrganization




                           Vice President:     GobindT. Nankani
                         Country Director:     MadaniM.Tall
                          Sector Manager:      EvaJarawan
                        Task TeamLeader:       MauriziaTovo

                                                                                         FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                      REPUBLICOF CAPE VERDE

                                               HIV/AIDS PROJECT

                                         ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                                       CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                           Page

        A.      INTRODUCTION........................................................................................................            -1

        B .     BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING................1

        C .     PROPOSEDCHANGES ............................................................................................... 4

        D .     CONSISTENCY WITH THE CAS AND THE PRSP                                       ..................................................   5

        E .     APPRAISAL OF ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES                                ...........................................................    6

        F .     EXPECTED OUTCOMES              ............................................................................................      6

        G .     BENEFITS AND RISKS............................................................................................... 7
        H.      FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                    .......8
        TECHNICALANNEX.............................................................................................................             -9

        APPENDIX A: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND TIMETABLE OF KEY
        PROCESSINGEVENTS.........................................................................................................              19
        APPENDIX B:MONITORINGINDICATORS.....................................................................                                   20

        APPENDIX C: DETAILED PROJECTCOSTS                            .....................................................................     21
       APPENDIX D:ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .............................................                                                22
        IBRDMAP 33383 ................................................................................................................... 21




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                               REPUBLIC OF CAPEVERDE

                                    HIV/AIDSPROJECT
                                ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                           PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET

  Date: November 27, 2006                       Team Leader: MauriziaTovo
  Country: Republic o f Cape Verde              Sector Manager: EvaJarawan
  Project Name: HIV/AIDS Project                Country Director: MadaniM.Tall
  Project ID: P101950                           Environmental Category: B
  Borrower: Government of Cape Verde
  ResDonsibleArrencv: Office of the Prime Minister




  For Loans/Credits/Others:
  Total Bank financing(US$m.): 5.00 equivalent
  Prouosedterms: 40 vears maturitv. includinga mace Period o f 10 vears

                         Source                            Local       Foreign  Total
  BORROWElURECIPIENT                                           0.50       0.00    0.50


  Borrower: Government of Cape Verde
  ResponsibleAgency: Office ofthe PrimeMinister
  CCS-SIDA Secretariat
  Contact Person:Mr.Artur Correia, Project Coordinator
I Email:
  Tel: (238) 260-51-13; Fax: (238) 2613099
         ccssida@cvtelecom.cv                                                 -


A.      INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
Additional Financing in an amount o f SDR 3.4 million (US$5 million equivalent) to the
Republic o f Cape Verde for the HIV/AIDS Project (Cr. 3629-1-CV).           The proposed
Additional Financing would help finance the costs that cannot be financed by the current
loan and are associated with: (i)  scaling up key interventions successfully piloted under
the initial credit within the context o f the new national strategy to address HIV/AIDS;
and (ii) identifying ways o f ensuring the sustainability o f current efforts in the fight
against HIV/AIDS after IDA funds run out. No changes to the objectives or general
design and implementationmodalities o f the project are being proposed. The Additional
Financing will include a two-year extension o f the Project until December 31,2008.

2.      This Additional Financing satisfies the conditions for Additional Financing for
Investment Lending as stated in BP 13.20 issued in June 2005: (a) it will support
activities that will increase the project's impact in a manner consistent with the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) presented to the Board in March 2002; (b) the current IDA-
financed project is properly implemented (Le., satisfactory PDO and IP ratings,
compliance with all legal covenants); (c) activities to be financed have shown results
under the ongoing Project; and (d) the closing date will be within the limit o f three years
after closing o f the initial project.   The Additional Financing will also help set up
mechanisms to ensure sustainability after project completion.

B.      BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING

3.      Country context. Cape Verde is a small archipelago of ten islands located off the
coast o f Senegal. Only about one-tenth o f the country's surface is arable. While the
islands are home to about 470,000 Cape Verdeans, twice as many Cape Verdeans live
abroad while maintaining close ties with their homeland. The country's growth
performance since the late 1980s has raised it to the ranks of lower middle income
countries, with a GNI per capita o f US$2,040 in 2005. Economic growth (an average o f
2.5 per capita per year over the last ten years and around 4.3 percent per capita in 2005)
has been sustained through public and private investment based on a high level o f donor
support, strong private capital flows, and remittances. Thanks to this growth, poverty has
declined by one-fourth over the last decade, while the human development index has
increased from 0.59 in 1990 to 0.67 in2003. Adult literacy rates are high(approximately
76 percent in2002), and life expectancy at birth(69) is the third highest inAfrica.

4.      Political openness has accompanied this economic and social progress. Since the
adoption o f a multi-partysystem in 1991, there have beenfour national elections and two
orderly changes in government. A free press further supports the building o f an open
society. The most recent legislative and presidential elections were held in January and
February2006, respectively.

5.      The original Credit. The original Development Credit Agreement (Cr 3629-CV)
in the amount of SDR 7.3 million (US$9.0 million equivalent) was approved on March


                                              1

28,2002. Itbecame effective on July 17,2002 andwas amended on April 8,2004 andon
July 29, 2004. Its closing date is December 31, 2006. It i s executed under a Specific
Investment Loan (SIL) for a total project cost o f US$9.6 million equivalent, o f which the
Government i s financing US$0.6 million equivalent. As o f November 2006, nearly 100
percent o f the Credit (SDR 7.3 million or US$10.9 million equivalent') has been
disbursed, including an advance o f SDR 450,000 to the Special Account. The remaining
Credit balance as well as the Special Account advance are committed and all
expenditures are expected to be documented ahead o fthe project closing date.

6.       Project objectives. The original project development objective, as stated in the
Project Appraisal Document, is to support the goal o f the national HIV/AIDS strategy o f
the Government o f Cape Verde to reduce the spread o f HIV infection inthe country. To
contribute to this goal, the project also supports (a) the establishment o f a strong and
sustainable national capacity to respond to the epidemic; and (b) the mitigation o f health
and socio-economic impact o fHIV/AIDS at individual, household, and community levels
thus sustaining an economicallyproductivepopulation.

7.       Scope and design ofthe project. The project has a countrywide geographic and
multi-sectoral scope. It provides for mainstreaming program activities into Line
Ministries and other agencies at the national and municipal levels as well as for
harnessing the capacity o f communities, civil society, women and youth organizations,
and labor unions to implement interventions to fight HIV/AIDS.

8.       Project oversight and fiduciary compliance is the responsibility o f the CCS-SIDA
(Comite' de Coordenap7o do Combate a Sida) Secretariat.                  Implementation o f the
activities i s and will continue to be carried out by a variety o f actors at different
organizational levels, including Line Ministries, Municipalities, civil society, and private
sector organizations. Contracting out by Ministries and Municipalities is encouraged in
order to make the best use o f the implementation capacity of civil society and the private
sector.

9.       Components. The project has four components: (a) capacity-building; (b) public
sector initiatives, including national and municipal levels, (c) civil society and private
sector initiatives, and (d) project facilitation, coordination, monitoring and evaluation. It
supports: (a) health promotion activities targeted at behavior change to reduce the
transmission o f HIV; (b) diagnosis, treatment, care and support for Persons Leaving with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and others affected by the epidemic; (c) mitigation o f the socio-
economic impact o f HIV/AIDS, and (d) operational research, surveillance, monitoring
andevaluationto strengthen national andlocal capacityto respondto the epidemic.

10.      Project performance. Implementation performance is satisfactory. The project is
likely to achieve or exceed its development objectives. The Project Performance
Indicators were modified through an amendment o f the Development Credit Agreement
in June 2005.        With respect to indicators in the original project, the use o f HIV
prevalence rate as an outcome indicator has been dropped because it has beenrevealedto

  This increase inthe US$ amount i s due to exchange rate fluctuations.



                                                   2

be an inadequate measure for HIV/AIDS projects performance. The rationale for this is
summarizedbelow:


    0 HIV prevalence is slow to respond to changes in HIV risk behavior and HIV
       incidence;
       In concentrated epidemics, HIV prevalence in the general population reflects the
       tail-end o f a long infection chain;
    0 HIVprevalence provides no timely information as to whether a project is on track
       and does not enable management byresults;
    0  HIV prevalence depends on the balance between incidence and mortality, which
       may be changed by increasingaccess to treatment;
    0  HIV prevalence changes cannot be attributed to a single development partner's
       efforts -they reflect the totality o fnational andinternational HIV responses;
    0  HIVprevalence measuresmaynotbeconsistent or stable over time.

Given the above, outcome indicators are no longer to be linked to prevalence but rather to
behaviors that can result in lower HIV infection rates, that is, the utilization o f condoms
by the sexually active population in general and the main high-risk group in particular,
and the median age at the first sexual intercourse. The outcome and intermediate
indicators for the Additional Financing have also been revised to reflect the two-year
extension. In addition, a new process indicator has been added to monitor the gradual
implementation of mechanisms to ensure sustainability o f HIV/AIDS interventions in
Cape Verde. An explanation ofthe revised indicators can be found inAppendix B.

11.      Compliance with environmental and social safeguards has been categorized as
highly satisfactory -- the medicalwaste management framework is actually considered as
a best practice for the sub-region. Fiduciary compliance is rated satisfactory. Financial
management was temporarily rated moderately unsatisfactory in 2005, primarily because
o f the Project failure to produce Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR), delays in
preparing the annual budget and weak internal control. A list o f issues identified during
an IDA mission carried out inNovember 2005 i s presented inthe technical annex with a
list o f key actions that needed to be addressed in order to upgrade the rating. Financial
management was upgraded to satisfactory in the subsequent ISR (May 2006) as the
project had complied with the agreed actions to improve performance, including the
regular production o f FMR, the submission o f an acceptable budget and activity action
plan, and the transmission o f the internal control report.        The Government is fully
committed to the project and has complied with all covenants specified in the
Development Credit Agreement.          The performance o f the CCS-SIDA Secretariat and
implementing agencies has been satisfactory. The CCS-SIDA Secretariat has established
an acceptable accounting and reporting system for the project that will continue for the
Additional Financing.

12.      Rationale and reasons for requesting the Additional Financing. The initial
project was designed to cast a large net, as little was known about the characteristics o f
the epidemic and the most effective ways to fight it. Thanks to additional information
and the implementation experience o f the past three years, it is now possible to focus



                                                3

efforts on a smaller, better targeted number o f activities. The Government has requested
additional financing o f US$S.O million equivalent inorder to: (i) implement activities that
will help consolidate project gains and focus on the most cost-effective approaches and
actions, particular for high-risk groups (see Technical h e x for details); and (ii)identify
ways o f making the fight against HIV/AIDS financially sustainable as no more IDA
funding is envisaged after this operation andpublic financing will be very limited. This
latter objective will be pursued primarily by establishing partnerships with the private
sector. Both objectives are consistent with the recently revised national strategy against
HIV/AIDS (October 2006).

13.     At present, the Government is unable to provide sufficient hding to continue
financing proposed activities. In addition, Cape Verde i s not eligible for Global Fund
support due to its high GDP per capita and low HIV infection prevalence rate (0.8
percent). Regarding other development agencies, the UNfamily, with UNDP as the lead
agency, has a $2 million program over four years, but hding remains with the donors.
Moreover, Brazil i s providing some assistance in the context o f the "South-South Link"
initiative (mostly technical assistance and anti-retroviral drugs for pregnant women) and
France has a small program exclusively for the island o f Fogo. Hence, only additional
financing from the World Bank could help the Government consolidate progress in the
fight against HIV/AIDS and implement mechanisms that would build a sustainable
program throughout the country. The good performance o f the project so far suggests that
implementation under this Additional Financing arrangement would continue to be
satisfactory, thus ensuring quality service delivery in a sector critical for the
Government's poverty reduction efforts.

C.      PROPOSEDCHANGES

14.     The original operation included a wide variety o f small interventions, a wide-
reaching and comprehensive Information, Education and Communication (IEC) effort,
and a number o f studies. N o w the knowledge base has been built and prevalence rates
seem to be under control (0.8 percent), so the challenge is to consolidate overall results
and find ways to assist at-risk groups. For example, studies on commercial sex workers,
street children and drug addicts were carried out under the original project, but their
recommendations can only be implementedifadditional financing i s secured. Similarly, a
pilot ARV treatment program introduced under the original project can only be continued
ifadditional funds are made available. Inaddition, a Voluntary Counseling and Testing
(VCT) network implemented on each island needs to be strengthened in several
Municipalities. Lastly, the M&E system that was launched needs to be improved to
beginproducingreliable data on aregular basis.

15.      The proposed changes in project design are marginal and consist mainly o f
sharpening the current approach with an eye to ensuring sustainability. Because the cost
o f the fight against HIV/AIDS cannot be covered at 100 percent in the short to the
medium term, the CCS-SIDA Secretariat will explore ways to develop partnerships with
the private sector, and inparticular with sub-sectors that by their nature are more exposed
to the risk o f HIV/AIDS andor more effective in reaching at-risk groups (e.g., tourism,
entertainment). The recently approved Law on Charitable Contributions (locally known


                                              4

as "Mecenate Law") represents an important opportunity as private enterprises can now
obtain fiscal advantages inexchange for investments insocial causes.

The project objectives remain the same. The institutional framework will remain the
same, although minor staffing changes may be decided to reflect the new emphasis on
strategic targeting and sustainability. Two new categories o f disbursements have been
introduced to allow for Grants to be made to Line Ministries or Municipalities on the
basis o f an Agreement which will be signed between the Line Ministry or Municipality
on one hand, and CCS-SIDA, on the other. This will give more responsibility to the Line
Ministry or Municipality to manage the implementation o f their respective Action Plan.
Activities to be financed under the Additional Financing are expected to be completed by
the end o f June 2008; therefore, the closing date for the original Development Credit
Agreement will be extended to December 31,2008.

16.     The costs and financing plan for the Additional Financing are presented in the
table below. The total cost based on actualized unit costs is estimated at US$5.5 million
equivalent, o f which an IDA financing o f US$5.0 million equivalent is proposed. The
Government contribution i s estimated at US$0.5 million equivalent, representing 10
percent o f the total additional financing. The Country Financing Parameters to allow for
the financing o f taxes have now been introduced. Detailed project costs are given in
Appendix C.



         Cost by Componentandby Financier                 IDA Beneficiaries/ Total
          (AmountinUS$ million,including                           Government
                       contingencies)
       1. Capacity-building                               1.oo          0.00         1.oo
       2. a. National Initiatives                         1S O          0.20         1.70
         b.MunicipalInitiatives                           0.60          0.05         0.65
       3.   Civil Society and Private Sector              1.00          0.00         1.oo
            Initiatives
       4.    Project   Facilitation,    Coordination,     0.90          0.25         1.15
     I Totalcosts
            Monitoringand Evaluation                    I 5.00    I     0.50        I5.50     I

D.      CONSISTENCYWITH THE CAS AND THE PRSP

17.     The ongoing HIV/AIDS Project and the proposed Additional Financing are
consistent with the high case scenario o f the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS,
Report No. 30941-CV, January 27, 2005).2 They also support the goals o f the national


  The WorldBank interventionwas initially predicatedona longer-terminvolvement(fifleen years) and
includeda follow-upMAP project, but inlight ofthe unexpectedlowprevalenceit was decidedthat a more
limitedengagementshouldbe sufficient.



                                                  5

strategy to reduce the incidence and impact o f HIV/AIDS inthe country, which inturn is
based on the Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP).

E.       APPRAISAL OFADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES

18.      As mentioned above, the additional activities consist o f refining the activities
financed under the initial operation. The project remains essentially as originally
designed and appraised. The economic, financial, technical, institutional, fiduciary,
environmental and social aspects o f the activities to be undertaken with additional
financing remain essentially the same as in the original project, but they are now fully
embedded in the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2006-10. This document, which is
the result o f extensive consultations, identifies four axes o f intervention: (a) universal
prevention, (b) quality o f life for those infected or affected by HIV/AIDS, (c)
involvement o f sectors in addition to health, and (d) management, coordination and
facilitation.

19.      Details concerning the activities to be financed with supplemental funding can be
found in the Technical Annex. As mentioned previously, they consist o f a sub-set o f
activities supported under the original IDA credit with an emphasis on executing plans
rather than developing them and a focus on providing services for high-risk groups while
maintaining efforts at prevention through IEC and condom promotion. Activities to be
supported will include (a) IEC targeted at behavior change to reduce the transmission o f
HIV, with a focus on groups that are most at risk; (b) diagnosis, treatment, care and
support for PLWHA and others affected by the epidemic; (c) mitigation o f the impact o f
HIV/AIDS; and (d) operational research, surveillance, monitoring, and evaluation to
strengthen national and local capacity to respond effectively and efficiently to the
epidemic. It should be noted that the environmental and safeguards category for the
requested additional finding i s B as under the original IDA credit, and no firther
safeguards study i s needed. Procedures laid out in the Medical Waste Management Plan
o f 2002 will apply to the execution o f activities funded through the requested additional
credit.

F.       EXPECTED OUTCOMES

20.      The proposed additional activities will strengthen and enhance the impact o f the
original project development objective. In particular, the updated outcome indicators as
discussed with ActAfrica, are expected to cover the following:

    0    the proportion o f the 15-49 age group who report using a condom in their last
         sexual act with a non-regular partner has increased from 46 percent to 50 percent
         for females and from 72 percent to 75 percent for males (as a measurement o f
         effective preventive interventions);

    0    the median age o f first sexual relation among both females and males remains the
         same, that is, 17 years o f age for both sexes;

    0    the number o f commercial sex workers who report using condoms has increased
         by 20 percent;



                                                6

       the percentage o f pregnant women using ante-natal services who benefit from
       voluntary counselingtesting (VCT) increases from 13 percent to 40 percent;

   0   no health structure providing ARV treatment has been out o f stock o f ARV drugs
       duringthe previous 12months; and
       the percentage o f private enterprises with 30 or more employees investing in
       activities that support the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2006-10 reaches 10
       percent.

G.     BENEFITSAND RISKS

21.    Benefits.   The project will continue to provide the following benefits to Cape
Verde:

         reduce the number o f new HIV/AIDS cases, by reducing the rate o f
         transmission o f HIV through (i)changing unsafe behaviors related to HIV
         infection, (ii)improving access to condoms, (iii)   reducing the rate o f sexually
         transmitted diseases, (iv) reducing the number o f infections transmitted from
         mother to child;

     0   extend the productive life o f people living with AIDS by: (i)      improving the
         prevention o f treatment o f opportunistic infections, especially tuberculosis, (ii)
         providing ARV treatment, and (iii)   providing nutritional supplements for people
         livingwith HIV/AIDS;

         improve the diagnosis, treatment and care for people living with HIV/AIDS by:
         (i)continuing to offer VCT to every Municipality and community; (ii)
         disseminating standard protocols, and training health care providers on the
         clinical management o f STI and HN/AIDS-related opportunistic infections;
         (iii)improving planning, procurement, and distribution o f essential diagnostic
         kits andpharmaceuticals including antiretroviral drugs;

         improve the ability o f communities, households, and individuals to prevent or
         cope with the impact o f HIV/AIDS, through community-led HIVIAIDS
         initiatives;

     0   improve the economic prospects o f orphans and poor HN-stricken families; and

     0   identify mechanisms to make the fight against H N / A I D S sustainable, for
         example, by establishing partnerships with the private sector.

22.    Risks. The modest level o f risk prevailing at the time o f the original Project
approval did not materialize as shown by the successful implementation by Line
Ministries and Municipalities, despite little experience with multisectoral initiatives and
no experience in HIV/AIDS control. The new system to channel funds to civil society
also worked well. This being said, IDA will have to continue (a) providing adequate



                                             7

resources for supervision which are above the standard supervision coefficients; (b)
conducting supervision with teams that have specialists from various sectors and in
particular, have specialists in key areas such as financial management, procurement,
monitoring and evaluation; and (c) collaborating closely with intemaVextema1 partners
and stakeholders. The only remaining risk is related to the Government's willingness to
continue providing a modicum o f resources for the fight against HIV/AIDS, and in
particular to fund at least part o fthe operating expenses o fthe CCS-SIDA Secretariat.

H.      FINANCIAL, TERMS AND                    CONDITIONS         FOR    ADDITIONAL,
FINANCING

23.    Disbursement arrangements for Grants to the Line Ministries and to the
Municipalities. An advance for budget expenditures for a period o f up to six months will
bemade upon signature o f anAgreement between a Line Ministryor a Municipality, and
the CCS-SIDA, with subsequent semi-annual payments to be made on the basis o f
satisfactory reports providing: (a) evidence o f performance/results in light o f indicators
specified in the Action Plan; (b) documentation substantiating expenditures incurred
duringthe previous semester; and (c) a plan and budget for the subsequent semester that
would be consistent with the lessons learned from previous experience.             Random
technical and financial audits will validate such reporting. A sample Agreement will be
included in the Project Operational Manual to be revised and submitted as part o f the
condition o f effectiveness.

24.     The Additional Financing o f US$5.0 million equivalent will be provided as a
Credit. The only condition o f effectiveness is that a revised version o f the Operating
Manual reflecting agreed changes will havebeen approvedby IDA.




                                               8

         CAPE VERDE: HIV/AIDS PROJECTADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                       ....................
                                      TechnicalAnnex

1. DetailedDescriptionofthe AdditionalFinancing

The project will finance HN/AIDS-related activities for the period 2007-08. Its set-up
takes into account the two-tiered decentralized adMinistrative structure in Cape Verde at
national and municipal levels as well as the existence o f vibrant civil society and private
sectors. Project components, therefore, allow for division between public and private
sector (the latter including civil society), while at the same time taking into account the
geographical and social separation o f the Cape Verdean island communities. The
objectives and the activities o f the project are consistent with the newly adopted National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2006-10, which is the result o f widespread consultations and
builds on the experience o f the original HIV/AIDS operation. The project components
remain as for the original project and are described below.

General

The proposed project will implement activities that will help consolidate gains under the
original project and focus on the most cost-effective approaches and actions. This will
mean scaling up or intensifying some o f the existing efforts by mainstreaming pilots in
Line Ministries and other government agencies and by harnessing the capacity o f
communities, civil society organizations and the private sector. Project oversight i s the
responsibility o f the CCS-SIDA (Comite' de CoordenapZo do Combate a Sida)
Secretariat. Implementation o f the activities will be at different organizational levels
including central government, Municipalities, civil society organizations, and private
sector entities. Contracting out by Ministries and Municipalities will continue to be
encouraged to make the best use o f the implementation capacity o f civil society
organizations and the private sector. Inaddition, on the basis o f lessons from the original
project, procedures have been amended to give greater responsibility to Municipalities
and Ministries while simplifying reporting requirements. Activities to be supported will
include (a) IEC targeted at behavior change to reduce the transmission o f HIV, with a
focus on the groups that have been found to be most at risk; (b) diagnosis, treatment, care
andsupport for PLWHA andothers affectedbythe epidemic; (c) mitigation o fthe impact
o f HIV/AIDS; and (d) operational research, surveillance, monitoring, and evaluation to
strengthen national and local capacity to respond effectively and efficiently to the
epidemic.

Project Component 1: Capacity Building US$l.OOmillion
                                               -
This component will continue to support HIV/AIDS-related capacity building for the
various implementers o f the project with a view to filling remaining gaps. This will
include training, technical assistance and any other capacity building activities that are
necessary for the public and private sector (including civil society organizations) to be
able to effectively and efficiently implement HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support



                                                  9

activities in the country. For instance, medical personnel will be trained in surveillance
techniques as well as in HIV/AIDS treatment adMinistration, while staff from relevant
government andnon-government agencies will be trained and supported inthe design and
implementation o f targeted socioeconomic research (e.g., on the HIV/AIDS-related
behavior o f high-risk groups). CCS-SIDA and its Secretariat will continue to benefit from
capacity building for key areas which were not sufficiently covered during the initial
phase o f the project, such as M&E and strategic IEC. This component will also purchase
equipment and finance work directly related to the training program for entities such as
hospitals, blood banks andhealth districts.

Project Component 2: Public Sector Initiatives - US$2.35million

This component will support HIV/AIDS initiatives o f the central government Ministries
and State Secretariats, parastatal organizations and municipal governments. In order to
reflect the decentralized nature o f Government and support its efforts to further
decentralization, the public sector initiatives component will be broken into (a) National
Initiatives and (b) MunicipalInitiatives.

a) National Initiatives (US$1.70 million). This component will support public sector
HIV/AIDS activities carried out a national level by Line Ministries or central government
agencies. Some o f these activities will be contracted out to civil society organizations
and/or the private sector. As part o f the multisectoral approach to HIV/AIDS, all
Ministries, including their representations at the municipal level, will be expected to
have, at a minimum, a mechanism to inform and educate their employees and an
HIV/AIDS social support network. Each Ministry has already prepared an Action Plan
including HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation activities for its staff, and has a focal
person or team for HIV/AIDS. The project will support the implementation, updating and
evaluationo f such plans. Specific activities to be financed include those outlined below.

General:
         Continue providing HIV/AIDS IEC services with a focus on vulnerable groups as
         identified inthe National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2006-10;
         Expand HIV/AIDS social networks for employees o f the Ministries and their
         families to provide prevention, care and support;
        Expandcounseling as well as psychologicalandmaterial support for PLWHA and
        their families.

Ministry of Health
      0  Strengthen the HIV/AIDS surveillance system;
      0  Improve early detection and treatment o f STI (including HIV/AIDS), tuberculosis
         and other opportunistic infections;
        Expand access to ARV treatment to cover every AIDS patient identified while
        maintaining previously achieved delivery standards;
      0  Continue providing control o f blood supply safety and quality, and ensure
         availability o f the relevant diagnostic kits (HIV, hepatitis and syphilis) in the
         entire blood transfusion network


                                              10

        Expand the control o f mother-to-child transmission through universal access to
        diagnostic tests for pregnant women and anti-retroviral therapy.

Ministry of Education
        Continue promoting HIV/AIDS initiatives by school and student associations at
        all education levels;
        Intensify efforts to integrate information and sensitization on HIV/AIDS into the
        curriculum at all levels o f the formal education system, including teacher training
        colleges;
        Expandprovision o fHIV/AIDS social support networks for teachers and students
        at all levels o f education.

b) Municipal initiatives (US$0.65 million). Under the decentralized system o f
adMinistration in Cape Verde, Municipalities are particularly important agents for
effecting change at the local level. Under this sub-component, the project will support
activities that are directly carried out by municipal authorities or contracted out by them
to civil society organizations or to the private sector. All Municipalities developed Action
Plans during the original project, but five additional Municipalities were recently created
andthey still have to develop their Action Plans. The project will support the preparation
(for the new Municipalities) and execution o f Action Plans in accordance with the
National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2006-10. Activities to be financed under this sub-
component include the following:

        Expand IEC activities through municipal and community leaders, teachers and
        school management teams on the impact o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic;
        Promote behavioral changes and safe sex practices in accordance with the
        priorities o f the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan2006-10;
        Continue supporting municipal HIV/AIDS teams inprevention, care, and support
        activities;
        Expandcounseling as well as anonymous andvoluntary testing services offered at
        municipal facilities;
        Improve early detection and treatment o f STI (including HIV/AIDS), tuberculosis
        andother opportunistic infections.

Project Component 3: Civil society andprivate sector initiatives US$l.00 million
                                                                    -

Under this component, the project will support initiatives directly carried out by, or
contracted out to civil society organizations, such as NGOs, religious organizations and
organizations o f PLWHA. These initiatives would include the preparation and execution
o f sub-projects aimed at preventing and controlling HIV/AIDS and at supporting those
affected by it. Activities to be financed could include:
        Continue conducting HIV-related IEC focusing on vulnerable groups as identified
        inthe NationalHIV/AIDS Strategic Plan2006-10;
        Target support to orphans, guardians o f poor orphans, and AIDS-stricken
        impoverished or disadvantaged households, including those headed by women,



                                              11

        youth and the elderly (usually because o f the death o f a spouse, parent or
        guardian) byproviding material andpsychologicalhelp;
     a  Intensifythe promotion o fcondomuse through social marketinganddistribution;
     a  Expandthe provision o fhome andcommunity-basedcare for PLWHA;
     a  Expand community-based HIV/AIDS networks in prevention, care and support
        activities.

Project Component 4: Project facilitation,            Coordination, and Monitoring and
Evaluation   - US$1.15million

This component will fbnd the continued functioning o f the CCS-SIDA Secretariat. The
Secretariat i s a lean structure designed to facilitate and coordinate project execution, with
project activities being implemented by Ministries, civil society organizations, private
enterprises, Municipalities, and communities. The main direct responsibilities o f the
Secretariat will continue to be facilitation, coordination, review of action plans and
fundingproposals, supervision, M&E, and support to CCS-SIDA for longer-term national
planning and policy development. Inaddition, the Secretariat will focus on identifying
ways o f ensuring the sustainability o f current efforts after IDA funding runs out. Some
progress has already been made in this sense, as IDA was the only donor when the
original project started, while now the UN family, Brazil and France are also
contributing.    In addition to continue looking for donor support, the Secretariat will
concentrate on establishing partnerships with the private sector, and in particular with
sub-sectors that by their nature can be more exposed to the risk o f HIV/AIDS and/or
more effective in reaching at-risk groups (e.g., tourism, entertainment). The recently
approved Law on Charitable Contributions (locally known as "Mecenate Law")
represents an important opportunity as private enterprises can now obtain fiscal
advantages inexchange for investments insocial causes.

2. ImplementationArrangements

Project oversight and fiduciary compliance is the responsibility o f the CCS-SIDA
Secretariat. Implementation o f the activities i s and will continue to be carried out by a
variety o f actors at different organizational levels, including Line Ministries,
Municipalities, civil society, and private sector organizations. Contracting out by
Ministries and Municipalities is encouraged in order to make the best use o f the
implementation capacity o f civil society and the private sector. Civil society
organizations in particular are financed through grants given upon acceptance o f a
proposal, a mechanism that has revealed quite effective in managing a plethora o f small
contracts. A similar mechanism is now proposed for financing activities implemented by
Municipalities and key Line Ministries (initially Health, Education and the Youth State
Secretariat), whereby these entities would receive grants upon acceptance o f their Action
Plan and signature o f an Agreement with the CCS-SIDA Secretariat. Dedicated staff
would be hiredat the municipal level to ensure close monitoring o f the use o f grant h d s
andcompliance with fiduciary requirements.




                                               12

Project implementation period. The closing date o f the original credit is December 31,
2006. An extension o f the Credit closing date to December 31, 2008, was agreed with
the Government inorder to implement the additional activities.

Capacity of the Borrower to execute the project. The existing implementing agencies
(CCS-SIDA, Line Ministries, Municipalities, civil society organizations), which have
performed satisfactorily under the original project, will carry out and oversee execution
o f the new activities. The proposed Additional Financing does not require any additional
implementation capacity beyond what i s already inplace, and its implementation will be
subject to the same monitoring and reporting requirements as inthe original project.

Implementation arrangements for Line Ministries and Municipalities.             Action plan
proposals by Ministries and Municipalities will be submitted to the CCS-SIDA for
approval and subsequent funding. An annual Agreement, which will include an action
plan and budget with agreed input and output indicators, will define the respective roles
and responsibilities o f the contract signatories and frame the relationship between the
various executing agencies and the CCS-SIDA. The Agreement will be conceived
according to a performance-based management approach, whose primary focus i s on
accountability for results.     A sample Agreement will be included in the Project
Operational Manualto be revised and submitted by effectiveness.

Procurement and Disbursement. Procurement and disbursement procedures will follow
the procedures applied under the original Credit. However, the procurement section for
this Additional Financing has been revised to reflect the credit amount o f US$5.0 million
equivalent as well as the type o f expenditures being procured under the Additional
Financing. The CCS-SIDA has prepared a comprehensive procurement plan, including
procurement o f ARV and additional activities.        According to this plan, all activities
should be completed before June 30, 2008. Concerning the Grants for Line Ministries
and for Municipalities, an advance for budgeted expenditures for a period o f up to six
months will be made upon signature o f an Agreement between a Line Ministry or
Municipality and the CCS-SIDA with subsequent semi-annual payments to be made on
the basis o f satisfactory reports providing: (a) evidence o f performance/results inlight o f
indicators specified in the Action Plan Agreement; (b) documentation substantiating
expenditures incurred during the previous semester; and (c) a plan and budget for the
subsequent semester that would be consistent with the lessons learned from previous
experience.     Random technical and financial audits will validate such reporting.
Retroactive financing is included for up to US$200,000 equivalent to cover eligible
expenditures made from October 1,2006 untilthe FinancingAgreement i s signed.

Special Account.      The authorized allocation for the Additional Financing is set at
us$800,000.




                                              13

3. Accounting, financialreportingandauditingarrangements

The following objectives o f the project's financial management system remain the same
for the Additional Financing. These objectives are: (i)    to ensure that funds are used only
for their intended purposes in an efficient and economical way while implementing
agreed activities; (ii)to enable the preparation o f financial reports that show costs
budgeted and incurred for the current period and the total budget and cost o f the Project
to date; (iii)
             to enable the CCS-SIDA management to monitor efficiently implementation
o fthe project; and (iv) to safeguard Project assets and resources.

The Project accounting and reporting system, including arrangements for audits, have
been overall satisfactory and there i s no proposal to make changes inthe implementation
arrangements for the Additional Financing. Therefore, only a desk review was conducted
on the financial management (FM) capacity o f the CCS-SIDA Secretariat. It was agreed
that the FM staff and the computerized financial management system in place should
continue to be used to support implementation o f the additional activities.           Particular
attention will be paid to the regular production o f periodic financial reporting such as
Financial Monitoring Reports.      Special account, Statement of Expenses (SOEs) and
annual accounts o f CCS-SIDA will continue to be subject to annual audits by private
independent auditors, as well as periodic reviews by national Public Control Institutions.

Fiduciary compliance is rated satisfactory. Financial management was temporarily rated
moderately unsatisfactory in 2005, primarily because o f the Project failure to produce
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR), delays in preparing the annual budget and weak
internal control. A list o f issues identified during an IDA mission carried out in
November 2005 is presented below, followed by a list o f key actions that needed to be
addressed in order to upgrade the rating.         Financial management was upgraded to
satisfactory in the subsequent ISR as the project complied with the agreed actions to
improve performance, including the regular production of FMR, the submission o f an
acceptable budget and activity action plan, and the transmission o f the internal control
report.



Area                                            Actions

Internal Control                                Overall, the project's internal control systems
                                                are not sufficient. The problems met in the
                                                financial management actually are essentially
                                                due to the absence of adequate internal control
                                                system.

Accounting procedures at the Municipality       During the midterm review the mission
level                                           recommended the recruitment o f eight
                                                facilitators at the Municipality level to take
                                                care of all the financial management aspects
                                                o f the project at municipality level and collect
                                                and process the supporting documents. Now,



                                              14

Area                              Actions

                                  one year later, the mission noted that this
                                  recommendation was not implemented at all.
                                  This has resulted in inadequate financial
                                  management, where national CCS-SIDA
                                  financial management unit has had to
                                  undertake work intended to be done at
                                  municipality level, thereby overwhelming the
                                  unit and preventing it fkom doing some if its
                                  core fiduciary responsibilities.

FinancialMonitoring Reporting     The Executive Secretariat has not started
                                  producing Financial Monitoring Reports
                                  (FMR), as required by the DCA 18 months
                                  after   effectiveness.  This wealaess     was
                                  initially due to the original and deficient
                                  accounting software, which was changed for a
                                  new one in August 2004. However the
                                  acquisition of new software did not resolve
                                  the situation and as notedno FMRshave been
                                  produced. The mission recommended and
                                  agreed with CCS-SIDA            ES, that  the
                                  productiono f the FMRfor the third quarter of
                                  2005 and their transmission to the Bank
                                  before the end of November 15, 2005, and
                                  thereafter produce and submit to IDA FMRs
                                  according to the schedule identified in the
                                  Development Credit Agreement.

Budgetingmanagement               The budget of the current fiscal year was
                                  never elaborated, although it i s noted that a
                                  budget was prepared for 2004. The absence of
                                  annual budgets does not permit comparison
                                  with actual realization for each period. For
                                  the next fiscal year, the mission recommends
                                  the elaboration of a realistic budget, taking
                                  into account the priority actions recommended
                                  by the mission and agreedon with CCS-SIDA
                                  ES.

Information Systems               A new system was purchased and installedin
                                  2004 but the modules o f withdrawals of
                                  special account are not used. The withdrawals
                                  applications are made inexcel application.




                                 15

Area                                        Actions

InternalControl                            Overall, the project's internal control systems
                                            are not sufficient. The problems met in the
                                           financial management actually are essentially
                                           due to the absence o f adequate internal control
                                           system.

Accounting procedures at the Municipality  During the midterm review the              mission
level                                      recommended        the  recruitment     of    eight
                                           facilitators at the Municipality level to take care
                                           of all the financial management aspects of the
                                           project at Municipality level and collect and
                                            process the supporting documents. Now, one
                                            year later,     the mission noted that this
                                            recommendation was not implemented at all.
                                            This has resulted in inadequate financial
                                            management,       where   national    CCS-SIDA
                                            financial management unit has had to undertake
                                            work intended to be done at Municipality level,
                                            thereby overwhelming the unit and preventing it
                                            from doing       some if its     core    fiduciary
                                            responsibilities.

Financial Monitoring Reporting              The Executive Secretariat has not started
                                            producing FinancialMonitoring Reports (FMR),
                                            as required by the DCA 18 months after
                                            effectiveness. This weakness was initially due to
                                            the original and deficient accounting software,
                                            which was changed for a new one in August
                                            2004. However the acquisition of new software
                                            did not resolve the situation and as noted no
                                            FMRs have been produced. The mission
                                            recommended and agreed with CCS-SIDA ES,
                                            that the production o f the FMR for the third
                                            quarter of 2005 and their transmission to the
                                            Bank before the end o f November 15,2005, and
                                            thereafter produce and submit to IDA FMRs
                                            according to the schedule identified in the
                                            DevelopmentCredit Agreement.

Budgetingmanagement                         The budget of the current fiscal year was never
                                            elaborated, although it i s noted that a budget
                                            was prepared for 2004. The absence of annual
                                            budgets does not permit comparison with actual
                                            realization for each period. For the next fiscal
                                            year, the missionrecommends the elaboration of
                                            a realistic budget, taking into account the
                                            priority actions recommended by the mission
                                            and agreed on with CCS-SIDA ES.



                                          16

IInformation Systems     A new system was purchased and installed in
                         2004 but the modules of withdrawals o f special
                         account   are not used. The        withdrawals
                         applications are made inexcel application.




                        17

                            FinancialManagementPerformance
                ActionPlanof November2005 andStatus of Compliance


                  ActionI Tasks                      Responsible    CompletionDate     Status (as
                                                                                       of May
                                                                                        2006)
Elaborationof the Budgetfor the fiscal
year 2006
    Submissionof the budget to the Bank            CCS-SIDAES      November 15,2005   Done

'   Submissionofthe activity actionplanto the Bank CCS-SIDA ES     November 15,2005    Done
    Bankcommentsonthe proposedbudgetand            IDA             November 30,2005    Done
    actionplan

Withdrawalapplication
    Improvethe quality of withdrawalapplication    CCS-SIDAES      Immediate           Done

Productionof FMR
... Submissionofthe FMR for the periodending on    CCS-SIDA ES     November 15,2005    Done
    September 2005
    Regular submissionof FMR                       CCS-SIDA ES     Eachquarter as per  On-going
                                                                   DCA
Managementletterfor 2004
    Transmissionofthe Internalcontrolreport for    CCS-SIDAES/     Immediate           Done
    2004 to the Bank                               Auditor




4. Environmentaland social aspects

The proposed activities do not trigger any new safeguard policies or raise the
environmental category o f the project.          Activities proposed under the Additional
Financing are the same as were proposed in the original project (category B). The
existing Medical Waste Management Plan elaborated in March 2002, which has been
successfully implemented by the Cape Verdians, is considered a "best practice" for the
region. The Medical Waste Management Plan has been be re-disclosed at the Bank's
InfoShop in September 2006. Concomitantly, the Government has published another
disclosure notice inthe country.

During execution o f the original project, no detrimental environmental issues were
triggered as a result o f the project and the Medical Waste Management Plan has been
implemented as required. Capacity to supervise environmental aspects has been
satisfactory under the original Credit. Category B has been assigned to the additional
financing accordingto the rating for MAPprojects.




                                                18

                        CAPEVERDE HIV/AIDS PROJECT

                              ADDITIONAL FINANCING


      APPENDIX A: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND TIMETABLE OF KEY
                              PROCESSINGEVENTS



  RVP Approval                                 September 8,2006
  Appraisal                                    October 4,2006
I Board Presentation
  Date ofPlannedEffectiveness               1I January
                                              December21,2006
                                           I
                                                      19,2007
                                            I
  Credit Closing                            1  December 31,2008



  IDAstaffwho worked onthe project included:

         Name                                    Title                    Unit
  MauriziaTovo         Lead Social Protection Specialist and Task Team   AFTH2
                       Leader
  Johanne Angers       Operations Officer                                AFTH2
  StkphaneLegros       Public Health Specialist                          WBIHD
  Adriana Cunha        Program Assistant                                 AFTH2
  Costa
  Bourama Diaite       Sr. Procurement Specialist                        AFTPC
  Luz Meza-Bartrina    Sr. Counsel                                       LEGAF
  Suzanne Morris       Sr. Finance Officer                               LOAG2
  Serigne 0.Fye        Sr. Environmental Specialist                      AFTS2
  Osval Romao          Financial Management Specialist                   AFTFM




                                           19

                         CAPE VERDE HIV/AIDS PROJECT
                             ADDITIONAL FINANCING


                     APPENDIX B: MONITORING INDICATORS

                                     Baseline     December 31,     Explanationon Revised
                                                       2008           OutcomeIndicators

  OutcomeAmpactIndicators
 1.The proportion of 15-49 who    Female: 46%;    Female: 50%;   Targets have changedto reflect
report usinga condom intheir        Male: 72%       Male: 75%     newclosing date. An interim
last sexual act with anon-       (IDSR11,2005)                     study will be conducted to
regular partner has increased                                      obtain data at project end.
from 46% to 50% for females
and from 72% to 75% for males
(as a measurement of effective
preventiveinterventions);

2. The median age of first sexual   Female: 17;     Female: 17;   Wording changed from "has
relation i s maintainedamong         Male: 17        Male: 17    increasedby one year" to "be
bothfemales and males (15-24      (IDSR 11,2005)                  maintained", which i s more
year olds);                                                      realistic considering the trends
                                                                 intheregion. An interimstudy
                                                                will be conducted to obtain data
                                                                          at project end
3. The percentage of                Survey to be Increasedby 20%  New indicator focusing on
commercial sex workers who          carried out                  behavioral change o f one of the
report usingcondoms has               (2006)                           maintarget groups
increasedby 20%

Output Indicators
 1. Percentageofpregnant               13%             40%        Indicator on VCT modified
women usingante-natal services    (IDSR11,2005)                   because goal under previous
benefitingfrom voluntary                                           indicator already achieved
counseling testing (VCT)                                            (100% o fMunicipalities
increasesfrom 13% to 40%                                              offering the service)

2. No health structure providing         0              0         New indicator introducedby
ARV treatment hasbeenout of           (2005)                     amendment o fthe D C A inJune
stock o f ARV drugs duringthe                                    2005 to reflect procurement of
previous 12months                                                             ARV

3. Percentageof private                  0             10%        Newindicatorto addressthe
enterprises (30 or more               (2006)                       objective o f sustainability
employees) investingin                                            through potential additional
activities supporting the                                           resources and innovative
National HIV/AIDSStrategic                                        partnerships with the private
Plan 2006-10 reaches 10%                                                      sector




                                           20

                      APPENDIX C: DETAILEDPROJECTCOSTS

                     (AmountinUS$ million,includingcontingencies)

           Cost by Component and by Financier          IDA   Beneficiaries/  Total
                                                             Government
    Capacity Building                                   1.oo     0.00        1.00
    NationalPublic Sector Initiatives                   1S O     0.20        1.70
    Municipal Public Sector Initiatives                 0.60     0.05        0.65
    Civil Society and Private Sector Initiatives        1.oo     0.00        1.00
    ProjectFacilitation, Coordination, and Monitoring   0.90     0.25        1.15
    and Evaluation
    Total costs                                         5.00     0.50        5.50

            Cost by Category and by Financier
                                                              Government   I       I
    1.Civil Works                                       0.40     0.05        0.45
~  ~




    2. a. Goods, Vehicles and Office Equipment          0.30     0.05        0.35
    2 b. Goods -Drugs tests and Medical Supplies        1.oo     0.25        1.25
    3. Consultant Services, Training and Audits         0.90     0.00        0.90
    4. Grants for CSO Subprojects                       1.oo     0.00        1.00
    5. Operating Costs                                  0.30     0.05        0.35
    6. Grants for Municipalities                        0.60     0.05        0.65
    7. Grants for LineMinistries                        0.40     0.05        0.45
    8. Unallocated                                      0.10     0.05        0.10
    Total costs                                         5.00     0.50        5.50

                     Cost by Category                  Local   Foreign       Total

    1.Civil Works                                       0.45     0.00        0.45
    2. a. Goods, Vehicles and Office Equipment          0.20     0.15        0.35
    2. b. Goods -Drugs tests and Medical Supplies       0.10     1.15        1.25
    3. Consultant Services, Training and Audits         0.60     0.30        0.90
    4. Grants for Subprojects                           1.oo     0.00        1.00
    5. Operating Costs                                  0.30     0.05        0.35
    6. Grants for Municipalities                        0.65     0.00        0.65
    7. Grants for Line Ministries                       0.45     0.00        0.45
    8. Unallocated                                      0. 10    0.00        0.10
    Total costs                                         3.85     1.65        5.50




                                                21

                            CAPEVERDE HIV/AIDS PROJECT
                                ADDITIONAL FINANCING


             APPENDIX D:ECONOMICAND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS



Economic Analysis. The detailed economic analysis on HIV/AIDS was carried out
under the umbrellaproject (see Annex 5 o fthe Project Appraisal Document for the Multi-
Country HIVAIDS Program for the Africa Region, Report No. 20727-AFR, paragraphs
76-78).   The analysis includes an overall assessment o f the impact o f HIV/AIDS on
economic development and poverty and shows that a reduction in AIDS-related deaths
would increase GDP growth.

Financial Analysis. The financial analysis presented in paragraph 79 o f the Project
Appraisal Document for the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region
(Report No. 20727-AFR) states that, "for each o f the physical works components, the
operation and maintenance costs will be calculated and commitment required from
Government to finance and carry out effective Operations and Maintenance on an annual
basis. An annual review o f Operations and Maintenance for physical works will be
carried out three months prior to the beginning o f each fiscal year."

The fiscal impact o f the project is not expected to be significant. The amount to be
disbursed annually, less than US$2.0 million equivalent, represents slightly more than
one percent o f the total Government budget. Counterpart funds are not expected to be
undulyheavy. Civil works will be limitedto minor renovationof existing facilities. The
actual fiscal impact is further minimized since a significant portion o f the project will be
implemented directly by NGOs, private sector organizations, and community-based
organizations.




                                            22

MAPSECTION




     23


                                                                  25W                                                         24W                                                   23W

                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                   RIBEIRA                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                  GRANDE                                                                                                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                               Ribeira Grande                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                  Vila das Pombas                                                                                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                     Ribeira da Cruz                     PAL

                                                Lajes                 Santo Anto
              17N           PORTO         (1803 m)           Porto Novo                                                                                                                                                                              17N
                             NOVO
                                                            Mindelo       SO VINCENTE
                                                                                                           W I N D W A R D
                                                                             Calhau
                                                      So Pedro       Madeiral
                                             So Vicente                              Santa Luzia                                                                                                  Sal
                                                                                                                                                                                   Espargos

                                                                                                                  SO NICOLAU
                                                                          Ilhu Branco                                                                                              SAL
                                                                                  Ilhu Raso       Riberia Brava                                                                                 Santa Maria
                                                                                                    Tarrafal       Preguica                      I S L A N D S
                                                                                                                 So Nicolau




                                                                                                       AT L A N T I C              O C E A N                                          Sal-Rei

                                                                                                                                                                              BOA VISTA                          Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                Povoco Velha
                                                                                                                                                                                Povoco
              16N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16N




                        CAPE
                       VERDE




                                                                                                                                              DS

                  CAPE VERDE                                                               LEEWARD                          ISLANSo               Tiago
                                                                                                                             TARRAFAL
                                                                                                                                                        SANTA                      Maio
                                                                                                                                      Tarrafal          CRUZ                       MAIO
                                                                                                                             SANTA
                                                                                                                                                       Santa Cruz
                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                             CATARINA                              Vila do Maio
                                                                                                                                     Santa Catarina
                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                               Mosteiros
                                                                                    Ilhus Do                  Igreja MOSTEIROS                        So Domingo
                                                                                                                                                       So
                     RIVERS                                                           Rombo                                                                                                                                                           15N
                                                                                                    Mt. Fogo
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                              SO
                     MAIN ROADS                                                                    (2,829 m)                                                                                        0      10      20      30 Kilometers
                                                                           Brava        Furna                                                               PRAIA DOMINGOS                                                                                 IBRD
                                                                                              So                                      PRAIA
                     COUNTY (CONCELHO) BOUNDARIES                        BRAVA               Filipe                 SO FILIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0            10          20             30 Miles           33383
        2004         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                         Fogo
                                                                  25W                                                         24W                                                   23W

