Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3629 CV
Development Credit Agreement
(HIV/AIDS Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 17, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3629 CV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the 
Page  2
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project is part of the second phase of the Multi-Country AIDS Program 
(MAP II) for the Africa Region, approved by the Board of Executive Directors of the Association 
on February 7, 2002;
(C)
the Association has received from the Borrower the National Strategic 
HIV/AIDS Plan dated February 28, 2002, an action plan containing details of the design and 
content of the Borrower’s national multisectoral strategy to fight the HIV/AIDS epidemic that 
was prepared through a participatory approach under the leadership of the Coordination 
Committee to Combat AIDS (CCS-SIDA) (said document being hereinafter referred to as the 
“Program”) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999)(the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
(b)
“Action Plan” means any document describing a set of activities to fight the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic carried out by a PSO (as hereinafter defined), including prevention 
treatment, care and mitigation of negative impact;
(c)
“BCV” means 
Banco de Cabo Verde
, the Borrower’s central bank established by 
the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 42/93 dated July 15, 1993;
(d)
“Cape Verde Escudo” means the currency of the Borrower;
Page  3
(e)
“CCS-SIDA” means 
Comitê de Coordenação do Combate à SIDA
, the 
Borrower’s National Council for the fight against HIV/AIDS, established and operating under the 
Office of the Prime Minister and pursuant to the Decision of the Borrower’s Prime Minister “
Despacho
 No. 50/2001” dated July 4, 2001;
(f)
“CCS-SIDA Executive Secretariat” means the administrative body of the 
CCS-SIDA, responsible for project facilitation, coordination and administration, established and 
operating pursuant to the Decision of the Borrower’s Prime Minister “
Despacho
 No. 50/2001” 
dated July 4, 2001;
(g)
“CSO” means a civil society organization established and operating under the 
laws of the Borrower, including rural or urban communities, grass-root organizations, religious 
and cultural organizations, professional and non-professional associations, private enterprises, 
NGOs and community-based associations involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS and which 
have met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Operational Manual and the requirements of 
Schedule 4 to this agreement and, as a result, have received or are entitled to receive a Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) through a Grant Agreement (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of a 
CSO Subproject;
(h)
“CSO Subproject” means any document describing a set of activities to fight the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic and carried out by a CSO and financed, or proposed to be financed, through 
a Grant under the Project;
(i)
“EMPROFAC” is the Borrower’s parastatal organization responsible for 
purchasing drugs and medical equipment for the private and public sectors, established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No 28/97 dated May 20, 1997; 
(j)
“Financial, Administrative and Accounting Manual” means the manual to be 
adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement and referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, outlining financial, administrative and accounting procedures and 
guidelines to be followed in the implementation of the Project;
(k)
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made to a CSO by CCS-SIDA or 
by a Municipal Committee to finance a CSO Subproject;
(m)
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement for the financing of a CSO Subproject 
and referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(n)
“HIV” means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus;
(o)
“IEC” means information, education, communication;
(p)
“Initial Deposit” means the amount to be deposited in the Project Account 
pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(q)
“Line Ministries” means the following ministries or secretariats of state: MOFP, 
MOD, MOJIA, MOHES, MOIT, MOECS, MOFACC, MOAF, MOTIC, OPM, SSFA, SSPAD, 
Page  4
SSY, SSSRPALA (as hereinafter defined); 
(r)
“LPSO” means a local public sector organization including municipalities and 
local public entities and companies existing and operating at the local level under the laws of the 
Borrower;
(s)
“Medical Waste Management Plan” means the plan acceptable to the 
Association for the management of hazardous health/medical waste under the Project, referred to 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Medical Waste Management Plan; 
(t)
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in paragraph 7 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(u)
“MOFP” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for finance and planning;
(v)
“MOD” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for defense;
(w)
“MOJIA” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for justice and internal 
administration;
(x)
“MOHES” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for health, employment 
and solidarity; 
(y)
“MOIT” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for infrastructure and 
transport;
(z)
“MOECS” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for education, culture and 
sports;
(aa)
“MOFACC” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for foreign affairs, 
cooperation and communities;
(bb)
“MOAF” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for agriculture and 
fisheries;
(cc)
“MOTIC” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for tourism, industry and 
commerce;
(dd)
“Monitoring and Evaluation Manual” means the manual to be adopted pursuant 
to Section 3.05 of this Agreement and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
outlining monitoring and evaluation procedures and guidelines to be followed in the 
implementation of the Project;
(ee)
“Municipal Account” means each of the seventeen new, separately and 
independently managed advance accounts of the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
and in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(ff)
“Municipal Committees” means the HIV/AIDS committees responsible to 
develop strategies and Action Plans to fight HIV/AIDS at the municipal or inter-municipal level, 
Page  5
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(gg)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations, established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower;
(hh)
“NPSO” means a national public sector organization including ministries, 
secretariats of state, parastatal companies and public agencies existing and operating at the 
central level under the laws of the Borrower;
(ii)
“OPM” means the Borrower’s Office of the Prime Minister;
(jj)
“PLWHA” means people living with HIV/AIDS;
(kk)
“PSO” means a public sector organization, including NPSOs and LPSOs;
(ll)
“Project Account” means the account to be opened pursuant to Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(mm)
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual to be adopted pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, outlining policies, procurement and implementation procedures and monitoring 
guidelines for the Project;
(nn)
“Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from the Effectiveness 
Date and any subsequent Project Year;
(oo)
“Sector Focal Team” means a team within the Borrower’s Line Ministries, in 
charge of preparing, reviewing and implementing an Action Plan for said Line Ministries;
(pp)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(qq)
“SSAPM” means the Secretariat of State to the office of the Prime Minister;
(rr)
“SSFA” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of State for foreign affairs;
(ss)
“SSPAD” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of State for parliamentary affairs 
and defense;
(tt)
“SSY” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of State for youth;
(uu)
“SSSRPALA” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of State for State reform, public 
administration and local authority; and
(vv)
“STIs” means sexually transmitted infections. 
ARTICLE II
Page  6
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seven million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
7,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made 
under a Grant to meet the reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for a CSO 
Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain: (i) in 
dollars, a special deposit account in BCV on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
and (ii) in Cape Verde Escudos, seventeen Municipal Accounts, all said Municipal Accounts in 
commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account and each respective Municipal Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
Page  7
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
August 1 and February 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each August 1 and 
February 1 commencing August 1, 2012 and ending February 1, 2042.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on February 1, 2022, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
CCS-SIDA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, environmental and public health practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual and the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project:
(a)
open and maintain in Cape Verde Escudos in BCV, in the name of CCS-SIDA, 
an account (the Project Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount in Cape Verde Escudos 
equivalent to $50,000 (the Initial Deposit);
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account, at quarterly intervals during Project 
implementation, an amount or amounts as may be required and agreed upon with the Association 
to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the Initial Deposit; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to paragraphs 
(b) and (c) above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project and not financed or to be 
financed by the Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
Page  9
future achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, no later than five months 
after the effectiveness date, and thereafter implement, the Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Page  10
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which:
(i) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains variances 
between the projected and actual sources and uses of such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the previously forecast and actual implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Page  11
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit deposited therein;
(b)
the Borrower has adopted: (i) an accounting, financial and management system 
for the Project; (ii) the Project Operational Manual; (iii) the Financial, Administrative and 
Accounting Manual; (iv) a procurement plan for the first Project Year;  and (v) a Medical Waste 
Management Plan; all in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
the Borrower has, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement, appointed a firm acceptable to the Association to be responsible for the 
carrying out of Project audits; and
(d)
the Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence that FMRs can be produced.
Section 6.02. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
C.P. 30
Praia,
Cabo Verde
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
COORDENACAO
608 MCECV
(238) 61 38 97
Cape Verde
Page  12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By:
/s/ José Brito
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                                        /s/ Theodore Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Page  13
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
460,000
90%
(2)
Goods:
100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local
expenditures
(a) 
vehicles and office
870,000
equipment
(b) 
drugs, tests and 
1,130,000
medical supplies
(3)
Consultants’ services,
1,600,000
100%
training and audits
(4)
Grants for
1,680,000
100% of amounts
           CSO Subprojects
disbursed
(5)
Operating costs
470,000
90% of local expenditures
(6)
Unallocated
1,090,000
TOTAL
7,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenditures incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office furniture and supplies, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, bank charges on Special Accounts and 
Municipal Accounts, rental expenses, office maintenance costs, utilities, travel cost for Project 
staff and salaries of support contractual staff for the Project, excluding salaries of officials of the 
Page  14
Borrower’s civil service; and
(d)
the term “training” includes scholarships, stipends, travel, purchase of training 
materials and rental of training facilities. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:
(a)
a grant under Category (4) to a CSO for a CSO Subproject under a Grant 
Agreement unless: (i) the Grant Agreement has been made in accordance with eligibility criteria 
and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Project Operational Manual and the 
provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and (ii) for CSO Subprojects under 
$10,000 equivalent per Grant Agreement, the Municipality has an Action Plan in place; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) consultant services under contracts costing less 
than: (A) $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and (B) $50,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants; and (iii) CSO Subprojects, training and operating costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) reducing the spread of 
HIV/AIDS in the Borrower’s population; (ii) mitigating the health and socioeconomic impact of 
HIV/AIDS on persons infected with or affected by HIV/AIDS within the Borrower’s territory, 
thus sustaining an economically productive population; and (iii) building strong and sustainable 
national capacity to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Capacity Building
Assisting PSOs and CSOs to implement their Action Plans and Subprojects by 
supporting capacity building activities, including the improvement of HIV/AIDS surveillance 
system, training for their staff, socioeconomic development research, cost and projection models 
and budget planning through the provision of technical advisory services and training and the 
Page  15
acquisition of goods and equipment.
Part B
: Public Sector Initiatives
1.
National Initiatives
Supporting NPSOs in their initiatives against HIV/AIDS through prevention, control and 
support activities and the preparation and execution of Action Plans, carried out directly or 
contracted out, detailing, among other things, the measures to be taken by national public sector 
staff and the population they serve to initiate or strengthen their fight against HIV/AIDS, 
including: (i) conducting IEC activities (including through the provision of training for national 
administration leaders as IEC agents) on the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and promoting 
behavioral changes and safe sex practices (including the use of condoms); (ii) expanding social 
assistance networks in prevention, care and support activities for NPSOs staff; (iii) creating 
social funds to enable PLWHA and their families to cope with HIV/AIDS; (iv) expanding 
counseling as well as psychological and material support for PLWHA and their families; (v) 
improving early detection and treatment of STIs, tuberculosis and other opportunistic infections, 
safe blood transfusions and anonymous and voluntary testing services including training to health 
staff; (vi) controlling mother-to-child transmission through anti-retroviral therapy; (vi) reviewing 
and, as necessary, reforming relevant laws and regulations affecting PLWHA; and (vii) preparing 
gender-responsive sectors-specific HIV/AIDS communication plans in Line Ministries; all 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training, the acquisition of goods and 
equipment, drugs, medical materials and equipment and the execution of works for the 
rehabilitation and extension of existing social infrastructure.
2.
Municipal Initiatives
Supporting LPSOs in their initiatives against HIV/AIDS through prevention, control and 
support activities and the preparation and execution of Action Plans, carried out directly or 
contracted out, detailing, among other things, the measures to be taken by municipal staff and the 
population they serve to initiate or strengthen their fight against HIV/AIDS, including: (i) 
conducting IEC activities through municipal and community leaders, teachers and school 
management teams on the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and promoting behavioral changes 
and safe sex practices (including the use of condoms); (ii) improving HIV/AIDS-related health 
services offered at municipal facilities, such as early detection and treatment of STIs, 
tuberculosis and other opportunistic infections; (iii) expanding counseling as well as anonymous 
and voluntary testing services offered at municipal facilities; and (iv) training municipal staff and 
local leaders in HIV/AIDS-related skills; all through the provision of technical advisory services 
and training, the acquisition of goods and equipment, drugs, medical materials and equipment 
and the execution of works for the rehabilitation and extension of existing social infrastructure. 
Part C
: Civil Society and Private Sector Initiatives
Supporting CSOs at the national and local level in their initiatives against HIV/AIDS 
through prevention, control and support activities and the preparation and execution of 
Subprojects, carried out directly or contracted out, detailing, among other things, the measures to 
Page  16
be taken by their staff and by their members to initiate or strengthen their fight against 
HIV/AIDS, including: (i) conducting IEC activities on the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and 
supporting the formal and informal education sectors to carry messages about HIV/AIDS and 
promote behavioral changes; (ii) promoting the use of condoms through social marketing and 
distribution; (iii) expanding community-based HIV/AIDS networks in prevention, care and 
support activities; (iv) investing in revenue-generating activities for PLWHA and their families; 
(v) providing home and community-based care for PLWHA; and (vi) supporting orphans, foster 
families and AIDS-stricken impoverished households, including those headed by females, 
children and elderly, by providing material and psychological support including scholarships; all 
through the provision of grants approved in accordance with the Project Operational Manual. 
Part D
:  Project Facilitation, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the Secretariat of CCS-SIDA to facilitate, coordinate, 
monitor and evaluate HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support activities, as embodied in the 
Program, through the provision of technical advisory services and training and the acquisition of 
goods and equipment.
2.
Contracting out an external entity to: (i) assist CCS-SIDA in administrative, procurement 
and financial tasks; (ii) monitor and evaluate activities to ensure an independent analysis and the 
tracking of Program performance against targets and variations in accordance with the protocols 
set forth or referred to in the Project Operational Manual; and (iii) carry out project audits.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
Page  17
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
3.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Small office equipment, medical products, off-the-shelf goods as well as standard 
specification supplies for individual contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines under contracts 
awarded on the basis of: (i) national shopping procedures, if available locally; or (ii) 
international shopping procedures, if not available locally.
3.
Direct Contracting
Proprietary items, such as drug and medical equipment may be procured from 
EMPROFAC with the Association’s prior agreement, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods, including drugs and medical supplies, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
less, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured from the 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United Nations (IAPSO), the United Nations 
Population Fund (UNFPA), and the World Health Organization (WHO), in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Page  18
Goods and works required for CSO Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association as defined in the Project Operational Manual.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor 
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines).
Page  19
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of 
consultants, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training and supervision of small works estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for: (i) training; (ii) consulting assignment provided by NGOs or other 
organizations to assist in the design of PSO Action Plans and CSO Subprojects; and (iii) 
consulting assignment estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines (including services for small studies) shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  20
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply with respect to the 
following, namely: (i) the contracts for the employment of consultants firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) the contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and
(b)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply with respect to 
the contracts for the employment of consultants firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more but less than the equivalent of US$100,000.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
General
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational 
Manual, the Financial, Administrative and Accounting Manual, the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Manual and the Medical Waste Management Plan, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of these Manuals or of this Plan without the 
Association’s prior written approval. These Manuals and this Plan will not be amended or 
waived if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
CCS-SIDA 
Page  21
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain CCS-SIDA, including the CCS-SIDA Executive 
Secretariat, in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, 
in accordance with the Project Operational Manual. 
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the CCS-SIDA Executive Secretariat to carry out the 
daily facilitation, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including the signing of  
Grant Agreements with CSOs for CSO Subprojects, in accordance with the Project Operational 
Manual.
3.
Municipal Committees
The Borrower shall cause its Municipal Committees to facilitate the implementation and 
coordination of the Project at the local level, including the signing of Grant Agreements with 
CSOs for CSO Subprojects, in accordance with the Project Operational Manual.
4.
Line Ministries
The Borrower shall cause its Line Ministries, through their Sector Focal Team, to 
prepare in collaboration with CCS-SIDA Executive Secretariat their annual Action Plan. 
5.
CSO Subprojects 
(a)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no CSO Subproject 
shall be eligible for financing under a grant out of the proceeds of the Credit unless CCS-SIDA 
Executive Secretariat or a Municipal Committee has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Operational Manual, that the 
CSO Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in more detail in the Project 
Operational Manual, which shall include the following:
(i)
the CSO Subproject shall be for any of the types of activities referred to 
in Part C of the Project and shall not be for any of the activities 
mentioned in a negative list in the Project Operational Manual;
(ii)
the CSO Subproject shall be initiated and implemented by a CSO;
(iii)
the CSO Subproject shall be in accordance with the standards specified 
in the Project Operational Manual; and
(iv)
the CSO Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth 
in the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to its 
HIV/AIDS Program.
(b)
CSO Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Grant Agreements, to be 
received, reviewed and selected, approved and signed by CCS-SIDA Executive Secretariat or a 
Page  22
Municipal Committee and the concerned CSO, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include the following:
(i)
a copy of the approved CSO Subproject, with its budget and its 
performance indicators;
(ii)
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis;
(iii)
the obligation to: (A) carry out the CSO Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial 
and public health standards and in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Operational Manual; (B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with simple and sound accounting practices defined in the 
Project Operational Manual, the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the CSO Subproject; and (C) maintain adequate reporting in 
accordance with the standards specified in the Project Operational 
Manual;
(iv)
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (B) such goods, 
works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
CSO Subproject;
(v)
the right of the Borrower to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, 
plants and construction included in the CSOs, the operations thereof and 
any relevant records and documents;
(vi)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operations and financial conditions of the CSO Subproject; and 
(vii)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the CSO to 
use the proceeds of the Grant for the CSO Subproject upon failure by the 
CSO to perform any of its obligations under its Grant Agreement. 
6.
Monitoring and Evaluation Reports
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory to the Association, 
Page  23
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about 30 days after each calendar quarter starting on the first calendar 
quarter for 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, on or about 60 days after each calendar quarter 
starting on the first calendar quarter for 2003, or such later date as the Association shall request, 
the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on 
the matter.
7.
Midterm Review
(a)
The Borrower shall, no later than June 30, 2004, carry out jointly with the 
Association, a Midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out, no later than one month after the completion of the 
Midterm Review, the Recommendations of the Midterm Review as agreed with the Association.
(c)
The Midterm Review shall assess the following: (i) the overall progress made in 
the implementation of the Project; and (ii) the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $700,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
Page  24
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account and the Municipal 
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account :
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Page  25
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
Page  26
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
7.
Municipal Accounts
:
(a)  The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into each 
Municipal Account the funds to assist the municipalities to pay for Grants for CSO Subprojects, 
LPSO Action Plans and related operating costs under the Project.  Such withdrawals or deposits 
shall be in amounts sufficient to assist each municipality to pay exclusively for such Grants for 
CSO Subprojects, LPSO Action Plans and related operating costs provided that in no event the 
Borrower shall cause the amount held in any municipality to exceed an amount in Cape Verde 
Escudos equivalent to: $50,000 for Praia; $40,000 for São Vicente, $14,000 for Paúl, $14,000 for 
Ribeira Grande, $14,000 for Porto Novo, $14,000 for São Nicolau, $14,000 for Sal, $14,000 for 
Boa Vista, $14,000 for Maio, $14,000 for Tarrafal, $14,000 for Santa Catarina, $14,000 for São 
Miguel, $14,000 for Santa Cruz, $14,000 for São Domingos, $14,000 for Mosteiros, $14,000 for 
São Felipe and $14,000 for Brava. 
(b)
Payments out of Municipal Accounts shall only be made for eligible 
expenditures in respect of Categories (1) to (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
(c)
Any withdrawal from any of the Municipal Accounts must be justified to the 
Borrower by the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible expenditures 
provided for under paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
(d)
If the Association or the Borrower shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding on any of the Municipal accounts will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the relevant Municipal Committee shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association or the Borrower, refund said outstanding amount to the Special 
Account.
