Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE OENLY
Report No. 10980
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
KANO STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1982-UNI)
JULY 31, 1992
IIICROFXIcHE Copy
IitiPort No.:10980 UNI    Type:  (PCF:
Title:KANO STATE AGRI?CULTUJRAL. TDEVEL,
ALuthor: LMACKIE. T
Ext. :31752 Room:T9053 Dept. :OEDD1
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =      Naira (N)
Appraisal Exchange Rate          =     US$1.00 = NO.55
Average 1984 Exchange Rate             US$1.00 = NO.80
Average 1986 Exchange Rate       =     US$1.00 = N1.20
Average 1988 Exchange Rate       =     US$1.00 = N4.00
Average 1989 Exchange Rate       =     US$1.00 = N7.50
Average 1990 Exchange Rate       =     US$1.00 = N8.00
WEIGIITS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (mt)               =      2,205 pounds (Ibs) or
0.9842 long ton
1 hectare (ha)                  =      2.4711 acres (ac)
1 acre (ac)                     =      0.4047 hectare (ha)
1 kilometer (km)                =      0.6214 miles (mi)
1 mile (mi)                     =      1.6093 kilometers (km)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP          Agricultural Development Project
APMEU        Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
ASP          Advanced Service Package
BSP          Basic Service Package
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FGN          Federal Government of Nigeria
FMA          Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FSC          Farmer Service Centers
ICB          International Competitive Biddings
KASCO        Kano State Agricultural Supply Company
KNADP        Kano State Agricultural Development Project
KNAPMU    Kano State Agricultural Program Management Unit
KNARDA    Kano State Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
KNARDEC   Kano 2tate Agricultural and Rural Development Executive Committee
KNSG         Kano State Government
LGC          Local Government Councils
NATSP        National Agricultural Technology Support Project
OFAR         On-Farm Adaptive Research
PCR          Project Completion Report
SAP          Structural Adjustment Program
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
T&V          Training and Visit
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Nigeria     =     January 1 to December 31
World Bank                =     July 1 to June 30



FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 204Z3
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
July 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Kano State Agricultural Development Proiect (Loan 1982-UNI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Nigeria - Kano State Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1982-UNI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
KANO STATE AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1982-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   ..................................................... .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................                         iii
PART I:      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity ............................ 1
2.   Background ........................... 1
3.   Project Objectives and Description ..........................  2
4.   Project Design and Organization ...........................  3
5.   Project Implementation . ............................ 4
6.   Project Results ........................... 5
7.   Project Sustainability . ........................... 8
8.   Bank Performance ..........           .................. 9
9.   Borrower's Performance ............................ .   9
10.   Project Relationship ..........        ................. 9
11.   Technical Assistance ..........        ................. 9
12.   Project Documentation and Data ..........................  10
13.   Findings and Lessons Learned ............................ 10
PART II:     PROJECT REVIEW fROM BORROWER'S PERSPECITVE 1/ ... 11
PART III:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION ........................... 15
1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credit .........................  15
2.   Project Timetable ..........................  16
3.   Loan Disbursement .........           ................. 16
4.   Project Implementation ..............         ............ 17
5.   Project Costs and Financing ..........................    19
6.   Statw of Covenants .........          ................. 20
7.   Mission Data .......................... 22
8.   Staff Inputs ........................... 23
Map: IBRD No. 15162R1
I/ Contains the Borrower's comments on Part I of the Draft PCR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
KANO STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1982-UNI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Kano State Agricultural
Development Project in Nigeria, for which Loan 1982-UNI in the amount of US$142
million was approved on April 30, 1981. The loan and project agreements are dated
September 2, 1981. Because of implementational delays, the loan closing date was
extended three times beyond June 30, 1986 to December 31, 1989, with the final
disbursement on August 20, 1990. The total disbursement under the project was
US$137.5 million equivalent to about 97 percent of the loan. A sum of US$4.5 million
was canceled.
This report (Parts I & III) is based on information compiled by a joint mission of
the Bank and the Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) of the
Federal Department of Agriculture which visited the project in March 1991. The
Borrower's comments (Part II) were submitted in response to a draft of the PCR.
It is also based on a review of the project's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the
Loan and Project Agreements, the President's Report, Supervision Reports, corres-
pondence between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank Memoranda.



- iii 
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
KANO STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1982-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Kano State Agricultural Development Project (KNADP) was the second of
the four state-wide agricultural development projects financed by the World Bank between
1981 and 1984 to support food production in northern Nigeria many parts of which suffer
from low and unreliable rainfall.
Objectives
2.     KNADP had two primary objectives: (a) to increase food production and incomes
of some 430,000 farm families; and (b) to alleviate the state's shortage of trained and
experienced personnel for agricultural development. The project was to provide a
package of farm support services, including extension advice, adaptive mescarch and input
distribution to assist agricultural production growth, improving the economic and social
infrastructure and enhancing institutional capacity. The project also included construction
and maintenance of feeder roads, water supplies, farm service centers and project offices
and stores. In addition, the project was to support management and technical training of
Nigerian staff; recruitment of skilled intemational staff to temporarily assist in project
execution; and the establishment of a state-owned input supply company.
Implementation
3.     Project implementation was in general marked by delays ai.d a slow pace of
execution, caused mainly by insufficient counterpart funding and a change in the political
regime in the early days of the project. The project was granted three yearly extensions
increasing project life to eight years instead of the initially planned five years. The project
was closed on December 31, 1989.
4.     At appraisal, project costs including physical and price contingencies, were
estimated at N265.2 million (US$482.2 million) and the Bank loan of US$142 million was
to finance 30 percent of project cost net of taxes. When the final disbursement was made
in August 1990, a total sum of US$137.5 million or 97 percent of the loan had been
disbursed by the Bank. A sum of US$4.5 million was cancelled. The Bank financed 51
percent of project costs while FGN contributed 13 percent against the SAR expectation of
30 percent and KNSG 25 percent versus an expected share of 34 percent. The shortfall in
counterpart funding by FGN and KNSG, was an important constraint to project
implementation. It originated from the decline in government petroleum revenues
because of falling prices and was exacerbated by the sharp decline in the value of the



- iv a
Naira (from US$1.00 = NO.55 in 1981 to US$1.00 = N8.00 in 1990) especially after the
SAP in 1986 which liberalized the foreign exchange market. The depreciation of the
Naira required higher counterpart funding in Naira terms which could not be supported
without additional revenues or reduced government spending elsewhere.
Results
5.     The project surpassed its targets in the irrigation of fadama lands (60,000 ha
irrigated relative to a target of 40,000 ha) and in the supply of potable water in rural areas
(3,000 wells versus a target of about 2,000). Road construction, however, reached only 60
percent of SAR expectations.
6.     The project was also quite successful in establishing a strong extension service.
This service was able to achieve an agent to farmer ratio of 1:704, slightly more than the
SAR estimate of 1:660, by reaching an estimated 760,000 farmers. The improvements in
productivity of several crops at farmer level during the project period can be largely
attributed to increased extension activity. Excension effectiveness could have been
enhanced if readily adaptable practices for improving dominant mixed croppiltj, systems
had been available and that input supply had been more efficient. Adaptive research,
however, began late but is now fully on-stream. Unfortunately, desired improvements to
the input supply system have not taken place. During the project period, sales of
improved seeds and agro-chemicals reached only 35 percent and 6 percent of the targets,
respectively, while official distribution of fertilizer was not beyond 82,000 tons/year
although the target was 230,500 tons/year.
7.    In crop production, project data indicate positive production trends in sorghum,
millet, maize, cowpea and rice. Groundnut production declined. However, only rice and
maize production were able to reach or surpass estimated annual growth rates. Sorghum
and millet, two important crops, fell short of the targets by more than 50 percent.
Nonetheless, yields of sorghum and millet increased by 34 percent and 29 percent,
respectively. It is estimated that the productivity of maize and cowpea had also increased
by about 20 percent while rice yields had increased by 41 percent. There has been a
decline in the area cropped to sorghum and millet inspite of their productivity
improvements implying lower relative profitability of these crops.
8.     The establishment and strengthening of the Kano State Agricultural and Rural
Development Authority (KNARDA) was a major achievement in institutional
development. It is fully Nigerian-managed and only occassionally draws on short-term
specialized external technical assistance in very limited areas. It has begun a process of
rationalizing its activities by involving the private sector in activities that it is less-suited to
undertake, and this includes seed production, and road construction and maintenance.
9.     The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at appraisal, which took into account
benefits from the agricultural component only, was estimated at 36 percent. Data
available is insufficient to carry out a meaningful assessment of project impact on the
financial returns for producers. The computation of the ERR has been omitted for the
same reason.



v -
Sustainability
10.    The establishment and strengthening of KNARDA, which has now been accepted
as the implementing arm of the State Ministry of Agriculture, de0nitely improves project
sustainability especially in terms of the institutional set-up required for sustaining project
activities. However, KNARDA's ability to further strengthen its operations depends
heavily on the availability of adequate funds and if its financial resources are still going to
be spread over several activities including rural infrastructure maintenance, there is a risk
that all operations may suffer.
11.    The project has developed a strong component for technology development and
dissemination. A systematic program of adaptive research, though belated, and an
effective extension service with extensive coverage is in place. KNARDA's policy of
inviting participation of the private sector in production, construction and trading activities
will contribute strongly to project sustainability.
12.    It is unlikely that infrastructure developed under the project will be properly
maintained considering the uncertainties of funding. One strategy for maintenance may be
to initiate collection of reasonable user charges. The sustainability of Kano State
Agricultural Supply Company (KASCO) is in question given its poor finances and the
government policy of privatization. Its phased withdrawal in favor of private traders and
cooperative groups may be the best arrangement.
Findings and Lessons Learned
13.   pAll nportant lesson relates to the scale and complexity of the project. Given the
shortage of experienced local managers and the limited availability of proven technological
packages for the dominant cropping systems under rainfed conditions, the project should
have been less ambitious in scale and with fewer components.
14.    With a reasonable prior knowledge on country's economic conditions, the project
risks related to counterpart funding should have been assessed more carefully.
15.    Given the experience of poor public sector performance in managing commercial
enterprises, and also the unhelpful fertilizer distribution policies of FGN, eaily action
should have been taken to reduce the dependency on the public sector for input supply.
The private sector should have been invited to participate in the distribution system.
16.    The SAR should have included key indicators and targets to be achieved not only
at project completion but also at different stages of project implementation.
17.    More emphasis should have been given at the start of the project to the
development of tested appropriate technological messages for the dominant mixed crop
cultivation systems of smallholder farmers with due regard to their financial circumstances.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
KANO STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1982-LeT)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:     Kano State Agricultural Development Project
Loan No.:         1982-UNI
RVP Unit:         Africa
Countrys          Nigeria
Sector:           Agriculture and Rural Development
Sub-Sector:       Area Development
2.    Background
2.1   During the oil boom that Nigeria experienced in the 1970s, the
performance of primary producing sectors, notably agriculture, was disap-
pointing. Agricultural preductivity virtually stagnated with a growth rate
(about 1 percent) that was not more than one-third of the rate of growth of
the population. Agricultural exports declined and food imports increased
manifold. The agriculture sector faced several disincentives emanating from
the oil boom. These included the appreciation of the exchange rate, the
enhanced profitability of investments in the non-tradeable sector, and a shift
of rural labor to the urban sector due to bigher wages in the latter, all of
which contributed to a lowering of profitability in agricultural production.
Some government assistance through agricultural subsidy programs failed to
change the situation.
2.2   To achieve its self-sufficiency goals for the 1980s, the Federal
Government oi Nigeria (FGN) planned for an annual food production growth of
3.5 percent. The experience of the Bank-supported enclave 1/ Agricultural
Development Projects (ADPs), encouraged FGN to use the concept on a state-wide
basis to promote food and agricultural production. In order to support its
agricultural development strategy FGN assigned a very high priority to public
investment and from 1981-1984 the World Bank assisted in financing four state-
wide projects in Bauchi, Kano, Sokoto and Kaduna. In Kano, the Kano State
Agricultural and Rural Development Authority (KNARDA) became the parastatal
responsible for implementing the project.
2.3   This ADP, as well as others, had to operate in a difficult environment
brought upon by unstable economic and political conditions. The period
between 1982 and 1986 witnessed three changes in the political regime, and the
end of the oil boom. An overvalued Naira producing unremunerative agricul-
1/ Between 1975 and 1980, enclave ADPs were implemented in Funtua, Gusau, Gombe, Ayangba, Lafia, Bida,
ilorin and Ekiti-Akoko.



-2-
tural producer prices and falling petroleum prices reducing government reve-
nues were factors exogenous to ADPs and not foreseen during project prepa-
ration.
2.4   A Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) in September 1986 introduced a set
of reforms which included a market-determined exchange rate, and the elimi-
nation of the commodity boards. These measures together with a ban of wheat,
maize and rice imports were expected to enhance the incentives for production
of tradeables, especially in small-holder agriculture. These had an immediate
positive impact on agricultural exports such as cocoa, palm kernels and rubber
which responded to the higher prices. These crops were, however, not grown in
the pLoject area which was agro-ecologically unsuitable. Prices of cereals,
and other food crops grown in the project area, however, took about two years
to adJust. Thus, for a major portion of the project implementation period
(1982-89), the incentive environment for the main crops grown in the project
area was far from conducive.
3.    Project Obiectives and Description
3.1   Prolect Obiectives.  In accord with FGN and Kano State Government (KNSG)
policies, the primary objectives of the project were to:
(a)   Increase food production and farm incomes in the State of Kano.
(b)   Alleviate the shortage of trained and experienced personnel for
agricultural development in the state.
3.2   Components.  The following project components were to be the means to
achieve above objectives:
(a)   Farn and Crop Development
Introduction of improved farm management and husbandry practices
through strengthening of extension services and improved supply of
inputs by Kano Agrir.ultural Supply Company (KASCO) to increase
crop production on about 900,000 ha. An applied research program,
a seed production program, establishment of forest tree nurseries
and improving the state land use planning capability were other
important elements in the action program. About 430,000 farm
families were expected to benefit from these.
(b)   Civil Works
This component included the construction of 1,440 km of rural
feeder roads, drilling of 1,000 boreholes, improving about 1,000
wells for the rural water supply program, and construction of
project offices, workshops, stores, staff houses and Farm Service
Centers (FSCs).
(c)   Institutional Support
Provision of a management structure for effective project
implementation, progress evaluation and providing guidelines for



-3-
future development; enhancement of state training institutions,
supporting KASCO's operations and assistance for improving on-
farms storage; and integration of local governments into project
activities.
(d)   Technical Assistance
The use of internationally recruited technical staff to assist in
project execution and consultancy services for project related
studies.
4.    Proiect Design and Organization
4.1   Project Design.  The project preparation was initiated by the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture (FMA) through its Agricultural Projects Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (APMEU), and was finalized in collaboration with Bank staff.
The level of preparation was considered generally satisfactory, meeting
appraisal requirements. The project's conceptual foundation was clear and was
shared by all relevant parties. The project design drew heavily on the expe-
rience of earlier Bank-assisted enclave ADPs. In general, there was consensus
that the scope and scale of the project were appropriate relative to its
objectives. The agricultural production objective was to be achieved largely
through farmer adoption of two technical packages based on field and research
observations. These were to replace traditional practices in the cultivation
of sorghum, maize, millet, cowpea, groundnuts and cotton under rainfed condi-
tions. One was the Basic Service Package (BSP) which included better husband-
ry practices including fertilizer use with moderate adoption of new techno-
logy. The other was the Advanced Service Package (ASP) which recommended
higher levels of husbandry and fertilizer and ineut use in sorghum, maize and
cotton production.
4.2   On hindsight, project design proved to be complex and consequently
somewhat over-optimistic in terms of institutional capacity. Major areas of
concern in this respect are as follows:
(a)   The project included a On-Farm Adaptive Research (OFAR) component
to address the problem of the non-availability of technical
packages proven and tested under farmers' conditions. However,
the design failed to adequately take into account the time
required for research to generate the required technical packages
and introduce them at the farm level. This may have affected the
realization of input use and production incres se forecast at
appraisal.
(b)   There was insufficient in-depth analysis of implications of
heavily-subsidized fertilizer given the fact that the agricultural
component of the project was largely dependent on efficient and
increased fertilizer use. Its impact on crop choices by farmers
and the inefficiencies generated by a government monopoly in the
distribution of fertilizer should have received more attention.
(c)   The substantially larger coverage, relative to "enclave" ADP
projects implemented earlier, and a number of new components



-4-
increased the complexity of the project in terms of management
needs. While the lack of local managerial capacity was clearly
recognized, the assumption that this could have been overcome by a
large expatriate technical and managerial component appears to
have been overly optimistic. The weaknesses of the existing
institutions and the culturally-based differences in perception
between the expatriates and indigenes were not adequately taken
into account.
4.3   Orginization.  The responsibility for organization and management of the
project was assigned to a Agricultural Program Management Unit (KNAPMU) of the
project. Parallel to the management unit, a state-owned input supply organi-
zation, KASCO, was to be established to ensure satisfactory procurement and
distribution of inputs. KNAPMU was to report directly to the Agricultural and
Rural Development Executive Committee (KNARDEC), the body responsible for
defining rural development policy. Linkages with other State institutions
were to be guaranteed by the presence in the above committee of represen-
tatives of the various ministries, advisers to the Governor on agricultural
and rural development and the ADP Program Manager.
5.    Project Implementation
5 1   Project 4.mplementation, phiased over five years 1981-1986, made a
promising start. However, it suffered subsequently because of poor counterpart
funding. Changes in the political regime and an administrative inquiry into
Kano Agr'cultural and Rural Development Authority (KNARDA - an autonomous
parastatal bcdy that replaced KNAPMU) also had their impact in slowing down
operations.  The suspension of the Kano State Agricultural and Rural Devel-
opment Executive Committee (KNARDEC) and the ban on all capital prclects by
the State Government during the inquiry period largely affected the progress
of the roads and buildings programs. Consequently, the loan closing date of
the project was extended by ona year from June 30, 1986. Attempts to speed up
implementation during the first extension period were not too successful. A
second one-year extension was agreed to and an action plan mainly to improve
operational efficiency drawn up. As a result, with close Bank supervision,
the project made commendable efforts in the implementation of the T&V exten-
sion system, the reduction of surplus staff and the improvement of financial
management in KNARDA. However, problems such as insufficient counterpart
funding, inability of KASCO to become commercially viable and the lack of
farm-tested technologies for dissemination to farmers still remained unre-
solved. Thus, A third extension was made with an action plan to improve
project achievements and the sustainabilicy of institutions and investments.
if the last year of the project, KNARDA made a serious effort to implement the
agreed action plan. Its plan to sell KASCO equity to cooperatives and priva-
tize KASCO's rstail outlets was still-born since conceptually it did not fully
suit the operating environment and its details had not been adequately worked
out. To speed up adaptive research, KNARDA recruited an experienced research
leader, pooled available technology from major research institutions and
introduced new varieties of maize (TZESRW) and cowpea (TVX3236). Counterpart
funding from the state government also improved.
5.2   Insufficient counterpart fundirg was one of the most critical issues
throughout project implementation. This affected the majority of project



components. FGN contribution during the first five years amounted to less
than 50 percernt of the expected contribution; its total contribution at the
end of the project in December 1989 represented only 13 percent of the total
actual project costa, compared to a share of 30 percent estimated at apprais-
al. The final total contribution of KNSG represented 25 percent of project
cost whereas its originally estimated share was 34 percent. The Bank contri-
buted 51 percent compared to the SAR figure of 30 percent.  The problems in
counterpart funds originated from a drop in petroleum prices which substan-
tially reduced Federal and State government revenues which are largely based
on oil export receipts.  The situation was made worse with the devaluation of
the Naira especially after 1986. 2/ The increased contributions required
from the Government in Naira terms could not be met as the state revenue base
changed very little and it was politically very difficult to reduce expen-
ditures in other sectors to support agriculture as these sectors had already
had substantial cutbacks. In many cases, it was a case of cutting back on
salaries or reducing staff numbers, both equally unpalatable options for a
people who had just experienced a period of plenty.
6.    Project Results
6.1 While the project reached or even surpassed its targets for the
irrigation of fadama lands, rural water supply, and extension service cover-
age, its performance in supply and distribution of inputs and adoption of
technical packages for increased agricultural production in rainfed areas was
below expectations. The project has, however, helped to strengthen the
managerial capacity of Nigerian institutions and personnel participating in
the project.
6.2   It is estimated that as a result of project actions, about 61,000 ha of
fadama land came under irrigation, compared to an appraisal target of 40,000
ha. Almost 45,000 pumps were sold under the project and used for pumping
irrigation water from the 5,900 tubewells drilled under the project and
existing surface water resources. The project's rural water supply component
succeeded in making potable water available to remote villages by drilling or
rehabilitating about 3,000 wells, almost 1,000 more than the SAR estimated.
Road construction, however, reached only 60 percent of the target. Some 864
km of roads, instead of 1,440 km. were built but no systems to improve the
local go-ernment capacity for road maintenance was established. Insufficient
counterpart funding, suspension of capital expenditures during the adminis-
trative inquiry and delayed recruitment of engineers were major reasons for
the shortfall. Local Government Councils (LGCs) did not have the resources,
both financial and managerial, to take over maintenance of roads.
6.3   The SAR planned to reforest 500 ha of degraded watershed with the annual
production of 4.5 million seedlings from 15 nurseries. This proposal for
forestry support did not materialize as envisaged following the inclusion of
this component in the Second National Forestry Project also financed by the
Bank. Following the mid-term review in 1985, a different emphasis was given
to this component, and about 96 village communal nurseries were established.
About 1.2 million seedlings were distributed yearly free of charge to farmers.
2/ The Naim declined from NO.55=31.00 in 1981 to N8.00=S1.00 in 1990.



-6-
This component is constrained by a shortage of cultivation equipment and
experienced personnel in grafting and other raising techniques. Five
horticulture nurseries to produce about 190,000 fruit seedlings per year have
also been established.
6.4   The extension service in Kano has developed into a well organized system
with comprehensive infrastructure (personnel, buildings and transport facili-
ties). After an experimentation with a Training and Demonstration system, it
reverted to the originally proposed T&V system. The number of farmers covered
by the extension service during project has been estimated at 760,000, which
gives an extension agent to farmer ratio of 1:740, slightly higher than the
1:660 3/ envisaged at appraisal. Extension effectiveness, however, was
affected by the non-availability of readily adoptable practices for improving
the dominant mixed cropping systems. Adaptive research unfortunately began
late, although good progress has been made. 4/ Several innovative trials on
increasing productivity of mixed cropping systems have been introduced since
1988, and some significant results have been obtained during recent times.
6.5   The record of input supply has been disappointing.  Sales of improved
seeds and agro-chemicals reached only 35 percent and 6 percent of the targets,
respectively. Official fertilizer distribution did not exceed 82,000 tone/
year while the projected distribution was 230,500 tons/year at project comple-
tion. KNARDA's Planning and Evaluation Department reported that total fertil-
izer use in the state exceeded the official distribution of KASCO, implying
that some fertilizer came in from other states to meet the strong demand in
Kano. However, Kano being a border state, leakages across the border, because
of the substantial price subsidy, have been reported to be significant. KASCO
failed to establish itself as a profitable commercial venture. The government
monopoly of fertilizer distribution with a retail price subsidy of as much as
70 percent led to erratic supplies, frequent scarcities, and unclear financial
obligations between FGN and the state. The inabili-y of KASCO to set its own
retail prices and having to adhere to FGN decreed prices was a major contri-
butor to its poor financial situation.
6.6   The broad picture discernible from available data on agricultural
production indicates positive production trends in all crops except groundnut
(see table on Crop Production below). Relative to the average annual growth
rate implied in the SAR, the maize output grew satisfactorily while the growth
in rice output surpassed the expectation substantially. Sorghum and millet,
two important food crops, fell short of the targets. Data from FRADYS 5/
survey carried out in 1982 indicate that these two crops may have had a nega-
tive growth rate. As shown in the table below, the area under sorghum and
millet declined sharply during the project period. Improvements in the yields
of these two crops (sorghum by 34 percent and millet by 29 percent) imply that
I/ Recently a ratio of 1:1000 was accepted as the norm for Nigeria by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources.
4/ See KNARDA Report, Dry Season Agricultural Adaptive Research 1987/88 (June 1988).
I/ Field Record for Agronomic Data, Yields, and Stands (FRADYS).



-7-
the area decline may be largely due to factors extraneous to project activity.
In fact, the project goals on productivity improvement have met with success
except in the case of groundnuts which, besides facing disease problems, was
confronted with poor price incentives. Farmer choices of crops and area
allocations are primarily influenced by the relative profitability of crop
production which is determined by the prices of outputs and inputs; they are
also influenced by non-price factors such as weather and reliable availability
of inputs required for proper use of new technology. Sorghum and millet
appear to have been affected by both these factors.
CROP PRODUCTION
SAR ESTIMATES                   Actual Production a/
Average                          Average
Year 0  Year 5 Annual Chanae  Year 0   Year 8  Annual Chance
('000 tons)  (%)               ('000 tons)      (%)
Sorghum     784   950    4.2              1045    1213       2.0
Millet      540   653     4.2              1090    1228      1.6
Maize       24   80    46.4                62      287       45.3
Cowpea      149   266    15.7              343     406        2.2
Groundnut   143   159    2.0               268     249       -1.0
Rice        35   49       8.0              133     538       38.1
a/    Based on data provided by KNARDA Monitoring and Evaluation Department.
Figures derived from the FRADYS survey carried out in 1982 imply higher production of sorghum and rmillet and lower
production of other crops.
AREA AND YIELD CHANGES a/
Area ('000 ha)                 Yields (k2/ha)
Year 0  Year 8 Chanee %       Year 0  Year 8 ChanRe %
Sorghum     1870  1617  -14                560   750    34
Millet      1831  1596  -13                595   770    29
Maize        55   211   283                1127  1340   19
Cowpea      1625   1604   -2               210   250    19
Groundnuts    562   694   23               476   360   -25
Rice         97   210   116                1367  1930   41
a/    Based on data provided by KNARDA Monitoring and Evaluation Department.
6.7   Institutional Development.  Despite the fact that the project's closing
date had to be postponed by three years, and notwithstanding the erratic coun-
terpart funding provided by the Federal and State Governments, KNARDA's
management performance has been in general terms satisfactory. A major
problem that KNARDA faced was the very high rate of staff turnover caused by
the difficulty of retaining qualified Nigerians. On the whole, the establish-
ment and strengthening of KNARDA was a major achievement in institutional
development. With the improvement in the incentive environment resulting from
the reforms under the SAP, KNARDA has expanded its extension activity to



-8-
include all major crops in the farming systems. For example, cotton is
showing a resurgence after these reforms0 KNARDA has also steadily moved away
from executing activities such as tubewell drilling and seed production. The
private sector is better suited to handle these operations. The project has
also moved towards commercializing its non-fertilizer operations by selling
chemicals and implements at full cost. It has also resorted to obtaining user
contributions to capital and maintenance costs of rural water supply from
beneficiaries.
6.8   Economic Rate of Return.  The project ERR as estimated in the SAR is 36
percent and covers benefits from the agricultural component only. Incon-
sistencies in the project management records and reporting, and questionable
data on agricultural output do not allow meaningful estimation, at project
completion, of the farmer's actual financial gains or of the economic returns
to the overall investment.
6.9   Some of the activities undertaken in the project are likely to bring
benefits in the long-term. These include the improvement of soil conser-
vation, advancements in extension and research which have been proven to be
beneficial as demonstrated in productivity improvements in major crops, and
the enhancement of managerial skills of staff involved in agricultural devel-
opment in Kano.
7.   Project Sustainabilitv
7.1   An important factor that augurs well for sustaining the developmental
activities launched through this project as well as other agricultural activi-
ties, is the establishment of KNARDA as a reasonably efficient operational
institution. It has now become the implementing arm of the State Ministry of
Agriculture. It will be responsible for the implementation of forthcoming
Bank-funded projects such as the National Fadama Development Project and the
National Agricultural Technology Support Project. The inadequate counterpart
funds may have been a constraint on KNARDA operations but in the long run may
also help to improve project sustainability since KNARDA has had to learn to
trim activities and costs and be more cost effective. While counterpart
funding definitely needs to be improved, it is important that KNARDA's
operating costs are kept at a justifiable level. With extension coverage
being more than adequate in terms of staff numbers, further recruitment of
extension staff should be strictly controlled. Also for more effective
coverage with lesser staff numbers, greater efforts should be made to utilize
the mass media for disseminating technology.
7.2   The project has taken several actions which will be helpful in
sustaining the project.6/ In the field of technology development and disse-
mination, the ADP has established a program of on-farm adaptive research
inclusive of a system for regular contacts between the national research
institutes and the extension service.  The extension service has been made
stronger and expanded to cover the majority of smallholders. A unification
exercise for all extension services in the agricultural sector is being
See the report of the Managing Director of KNARDA on "The Restructuring of KNARDA's Work Progam ... as
of September 30, 1988," submitted to Bank's AF4AG Division on November 2, 1988.



.9 -
undertaken and will further strengthen the service technically and make it
more cost-effective. With KASCO no longer receiving Bank-assistance, the
private sector has now increased responsibility for the sale of inputs
(excluding fertilizer which is still in the hands of government). The phasing
out of KASCO from the input distribution sector will assist in the development
of a more efficient privately-operated agricultural input distribution net-
work. Local governments have been assisted by KNARDA to develop their capa-
city for routine road maintenance, and to utilize the private sector for
rehabilitation, construction and major maintenance work.
7.3   It is unlikely that government finances are going to show improvement in
the coming years. The maintenance of project infrastructure may, thus,
frequently face the problem of insufficient funding. The collection of user
fees through LGCs for village water supplies should be strengthened and
training of village mechanics for hand pump maintenance continued. For feeder
roads the transfer of responsibility for maintenance to LGCs has to be
accompanied by selective imposition of road tolls and involvement of local
communities in maintenance works. According to the engineering staff of
KNARDA, a charge of N1.00 per use each way of feeder roads will suffice to
finance basic maintenance work.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1   The Bank had a close involvement throughout the project cycle.  A total
of 20 supervision missions were fielded over nine years with a total Bank
staff input of 303 man-days in the field. On the average, these missions
lasted four field days. Given the project complexity and the problems it
faced, this number of field days was probably not sufficient.
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.1   The Borrower participation during project implementation was always very
supportive of supervision missions and open to suggestions for improvement.
However, there were frequent delays in the fulfillment of conditions stipu-
lated in tha loan agreement, particularly in the case of counterpart funding,
recruitment of personnel and appointment of key managerial personnel.
10.   Proiect Relationshilp
10.1 The Bank-Borrower relationship was, in general, satisfactory, always
with the objective of conducting implementation properly. Decisions regarding
the loan closing date, its extension, and reallocation of loan proceeds by
disbursement categories were conducted in an atmosphere of mutual cooperation.
11.   Technical Assistance
11.1 Consulting services were contracted to obtain technical assistance for
several components. Data on actual man-months utilization of these services
were not made available. Nevertheless, KNARDA staff has -zndicated that the
consulting services were satisfactory. Of the provision of 211 man-years for
internationally-recruited staff, 158 man-years were used. While this use of
external assistance did not speed up project implementation, it did result ir
reliable management systems being put in place.



- 10-
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1 The project covenants were clearly stipulated. The SAR provided an
adequate framework for the Bank and the Borrower to implement the project.
KNARDA's Monitoring and Evaluation Department was able to provide most
relevant data for the preparation of this PCR.
13.   Findings and Lessons Learned
13.1 The main lesson from the experience of this ADP, as in the case of other
state-wide ADPs, is that the Bank needs to be cautious when designing
projects with a multiplicity of components. Given the shortage of experienced
local managerial capacity and the need to develop from scratch proven techno-
logical packages for the eominant rainfed mixed cropped systems, the Bank
should have been more prudent and designed a project on a less ambitious
scale.
13.2 The project risks related to counterpart funding should have been
assessed more carefully within the context of the country's economic condi-
tions and the unfavorable petroleum prices.
13.3 With the known poor performance of public sector enterprises and the
serious inefficiencies arising from fertilizer distribution policies of FGN,
corrective action should have been taken early during the project imple-
mentation to establish a private sector operated system for the distribution
of farm inputs; the timely availability of farm inputs was a basic design
element in improving farm production.
13.4 More emphasis should have been given at the beginning of the project to
the development of appropriate technological messages for the dominant mixed
crops cultivation systems; prior testing under smallholder conditions and full
appreciation of farmer financial circumstances should have been important
prerequisites.
13.5 The SAR should have included key indicators and targets intended to be
achieved not only at project completion but also at different stages of
project implementation.  This would have improved monitoring and assisted the
management in evaluating progress.



- 11 -
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Adequacy and Accuracy of Part III
1.1   There are no serious discrepancies between the factual information
in part II: of this PCR with our records. However it is pertinent to
note that most of the Project Covenants were complied with by the
borrower with minimum delay. For example contrary to the statement
(subject item number PA 2.03 (b)(a) on Table 7) on roads and water
supply maintenance, KNARDA had since 1988 made adequate arrangements and
developed completely all its boreholes to the local Government Autho-
rities for routine maintenance. In addition the Project had designed a
comprehensive feeder roads maintenance plan to be implemented by the
Local Governments and the Bank is aware of this arrangement.
2.    Remarks on Part I
2.1   The analysis contained in part 1 of the PCR is satisfactory and
acceptable to the Borrower. There are no areas of serious disagreement.
However it is imperative to appreciate that KNARDA began with minimum
delay in 1982 with the quick recruitment of key staff and the establish-
ment of KNARDEC in 1981 which was a quarter of 1982 several activities
were started which included the village listing exercise, baseline
survey, the preparation of extension demonstrations and contrary to the
impression in paragraph 5.1 of this PCR the activities of the Adaptive
Research began early in 1982 with most staff on board. The component
was able to supply most of the seed requirements of KASCO beginning from
1982 for distribution to farmers.
2.2   Further, taking cognizance of the shortcomings of the design of
the Adaptive Research component as expressed in this PCR and the lack of
readily available proven technological packages at the beginning of the
Project, KARDA was quick to identify and recruit an experienced Chief
Adaptive Research officer which in effect assisted in pooling available
technology from IAR, NCRI, IITA etc. This effort by KNARDA led to the
introduction to farmers of TZESRW maize varieties and the famous TVX
3236 cowpea varieties among others.
2.3   Similarly the Agroforestry component was implemented by the
project which included the upgrading of 96 communal nurseries and the
establishment of 5 horticultural nurseries. It was however, delayed
till 1985 due to absence of an experienced forestry officer.
2.4   Finally the shortfall in reaching the SAR targets on feeder roads
programme and the poor achievements of the building programme were
attributed to delays in procurement of plant, vehicles, equipment and
partly due to the suspension of KNARDEC and the ban on all Capital
Projects by the State Government in 1985 which were not anticipated by
SAR.



- 12 -
2.5 These issues not withstanding the borrower feels that KNARDA'S
performance has been on the whole satisfactory.
3.    Bank Performance
3.1   The performance of the Bank throughout the Project cycle was quite
satisfactory. The Bank's meticulous and efficient supervisory missions
were instrumental to the adoption of implementation strategies and poli-
cies which generally enhanced Project affectiveness. The professional
advice offered by these missions played important role in unravelling
the conceptual vision and the general orientation of the programme.
Unfortunately the missions became very irregular and less frequent
between 1987 and 1989, which consequently affected the Project's
procurement programmes and other related activities.
3.2 The Bank was quite responsive in its funding commitment. The main
failing, however, was the general shortfall in counterpart funding which
was most critical between late 1984 to early 1986. This problem was
consistently raised but perhaps there were no provisions for the Bank to
effect improvement.
3.3 While the overall performance of the Bank was positive, there
were, however, the issues of procurement and input supply components
which the Bank having had a grasp of, but was too cautious to provide
solutions. The Bank procurement procedures were saddled with complex
documentations which led to undue delays and often retarded Project
progress. The time span on International Competitive Biddings (ICBs)
from tender preparations to the delivery of items typically averaged
about a year which was generally felt to be too long a period. On the
input supply component, the Bank had consistently followed an indirect
Bank intervention and early review of the component through the appro-
priate Government medium could have improved the situation.
3.4 The main lessons to be learned here are that Bank Procurement
Procedures should be simplified in order to shorten the period between
tender preparation and delivery. The issue of input supply component
(KASCO) should be resolved in view of the forthcoming National Agricul-
tural Technology Support project (NATSP). Another lesson is that given
the uncertainties regarding counterpart funding the Bank should make
some contingency provisions to enable Projects continue with their
programmes in the event of short term drop in the flow of local funding.
4.    Borrower Performance
4.1 The borrower has satisfactorily followed the SAR provision and
conditions stipulated in the loan agreement throughout the project
implementation.
4.2 Although on yearly basis Federal Government counterpart contri-
bution generally fell short of SAR targets, cummulative Federal Govern-
ment funding exceeded the SAR target. As at December 1990 the Federal



-13 -
Government had contributed the sum of Naira 76.08m against SAR target of
Naira 48.08m (See Annex II).
4.3 The unstable economic climate which was not foreseen at project
preparation and appraisal and some other constraints accounted for the
varied performance of the borrower. However, some level of stability
was achieved via the coordination of economic policies initiated in 1986
by the Federal Government. The implementation of the Project has gene-
rally made substantial contribution to the state's agriculture and rural
development.
4.4 The lesson to be learned is that in future the Project design
should be realistic in setting attainable funding projections.
5.    Project Relationship
5.1 The Bank/Borrower relationship was generally cordial and
supportive. The two parties had no serious disagreements throughout
Project cycle. All decisions regarding Project evolution, implemen-
tation, problems and constraints were resolved in an atmosphere of
mutual trust and understanding. This approach has been really helpful
in the Project implementation.
Department of Agriculture
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources
Abuja
28th June. 1991



- 15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credit
Loan No.                        Prolect Name                      Loan Amount         Year of           Year of
(USS Mn.)         Amproval         Completlon
IM92-UNI       Funtua Agricultumal Development                        29.0              1974             1982
1099-UNI       Gusau Agricultural Development                         19.0              1974             1982
1164-UNI       Combe Agricultural Development                         21.0              1974             1982
1454-UNI       Lafia Agricultural Development                         27.0              1977             1984
1455-UNI       Ayangba Agricultural Development                       35.0              1977             1983
1667-UNI       Bida Agricultural Development                          23.0              1979             1986
1668-UNI        llorin Agricultural Development                       27.0              1979             .988
1838-UNI       Oyo North Agricultural Development                     28.0              1980             1988
1854-UNI       Ekiti Akoko Agricultural Development                   32.5              1980             1985
2029-UNI        Agricultural Technical Assistance                     47.0              1981              1989
1981-UNI       Bauchi State Agricultural Development                 132.0              1981             1989
2185-UNI        Sokoto State Agricultural Development                 147.0             1982              1990
2436-UNI        Kaduna State Agricultural Development                 122.0             1984            on-going
2736-UNI        Multi-State Agricultural Development I                162.0             1986            on-going
2741-UNI        South Borno Agricultural Development                  25.0              1986            on-going
2988-UNI        Multi-State Agricultural Developmemt II               85.2              1989            on-going
2035-UNI        Multi-State Agricultural Development III              100.9             1989            on-going



- 16 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                   Date Planned               Rei ed                        Actual Dat
Identificadion                                                                     1977
Preparation                                                                        1978 - 1979
Preappraisal                 ._._ ._.                                              N.A.
Appraisal                                                                          May 1980
Project Brief                                                                      June 1980
Loan Negotiations                                                                  November 24, 1980
Board Approval              May 5, 1981               April 30, 1981               April 30, 1981
Loan Signaturo                                                                     September 2, 1981
Loan Effectiveness          December 2, 1981          December 29, 1981 1/         December 29, 1981
Loan Closing                June 30, 1986             December 29, 1989 a/         December 31, 1989
Disbursement Closing        December 31, 1986         June 1989 a/                 August 20, 1989
Table 3: Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
USS Millons
PY82    FY83    FY84    PY85    FY86    PY87    PY88   FY89
Appraisal Estimate          24.5    65.9    90.6    112.1    137.5    142.0        -        -
Actual                      1.9      21.6    42.4    58.5       81.8    108.1    123.2   137.5
Actual as a % of Estimate    8       33       47       59       59       76       87       97
1/      Date of effectiveness was postponed pending completion of (a) subsidiary loan agreement between PFN and
KNSG; (b) completion of legal opinions by FGN and KNSG; and (c) appointment of key project staff.
2/      Loan closing date was postponod threo times to December 31, 1987, December 31, 1988 and December 31,
1989.



- 17 -
TabIe_4: Project Implementation
Actual as
S.A.R.       Actual        a % of
Comnonents/ltem.s            Units      Target    Achievement       Target        Remarns
A. On-Farm Development
Extension Servlce.
Extension Agents                     No          927           1,080       116.5    Incremental
Assisted farners                   'OOOs         614            760          124    Incremental
Ext. Agent/Parners Ratio             No        1:660           1:740          94
Farmners adopting technical pkg.   'OOOs         430            418           97
Adantive Research                                                                    Introduction of
new maize &
Demonstation Plots                 'OOOs           -            208                  cowpea varieties
Trials on farmers land                No           -           1,493
Input SuDDlY
Pertilizers (annual tons)           OOOs         230             82           35    At project
_______________________________  _________l__                                   com pletion
Seeds: Cereals (annual)              tons      1,120            492           44    At project
completion
Vegetable seeds (annual)             tons        2.7            0.2            7
Agro-chemicals (annual)              tons        594            18.3           3    At project
l________                  ___________  completion
Motor & handpumps for irrigation      No       6,100         44,998          737    Total over
_______ _project life
Seeds nultiplication                 tons      1,178            164           14    At project
______________________   ______     ______                                 completion
B. Forestry and Horticulture
Department
Upgrading of nurseries                No          15             96          640    Component r
oriented
Seedlings distributed             Millions       4.5             1.2          26
Horticulture nurseries                No            -             5
Fruit trees seedlings distribution  'COOs           -           190                  Annual
Land use planning:
- Production                         No           -              I                 State Zonal Map
- Maps of irrigation sites           No           -             54
- Weather stations                   N            -              4       l



- 18 -
Table 4: Project Implementation
(continued)
Actual
S.A.R.       Actual         as
Components/Tterns            Units   TIrIet    Achievement    a % of            Remarks
Tarect_
C. Infrastructure Development
Roads Construction                  Km         1,440           864          60
Buildings:                                       978            79                Units not
comparable
- Offices                           No         202              6          -
- Farm Service Centers              No          128           123         96
- Headquarters complex              No            I             1        100
- Workshops and Stores              No          43              4          9
- Training Centers                  No           -             13
- Seed multiplication plant         No           -              2
and Seed store
Rural Water Supply: Boreholes         No       1,000          1,659        166
- Well rehabilitation               No        I,0o0         1,302        130
D. Institutional Support
Monitoring and Evaluation:                                                       "FRADYS"
Surveys replaced
- Baseline Survey                   No           1              I        100    large scale survey
- Agronomic Surveys                 No           .              3          -    and micro
- Demonstation pest studies         No           -              6          -    agronomic survey
- Market price surveys              No                          2          -    carried out in
No                                          1984 and 1989
- Training: Training of VEA         No         800          1,540        192
- Other Admin. & Tech. courses      No                      1,987          -
- Overseas courses                                            110
Only 27 units out
- Farmers training by mobile        No           .             27                of 30 presently
units                                                                          working
- Radio message broadcast           No           .            522                                  l
- Television messages               No         _              272
E. Technical Assistance                Man-       211             158         75
Internationally recruited staff      years
Consultants                          Man-       164             n.a.              Not available
l                             ~~~~~~~~~~~years



19 -
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal              Actual
Estimate
Category Item                              (N        (          (N        (2)
Millior.             Million
s)             I           .)
Engineering services & land development                     8.2        4           51.8     11
Road construction                                          29.6       15           13.8      3
Rural water supply                                         13.3        7           85.4     18
Vehicles & mechanical workshops
10.1       5            22.6      5
Monitoring/evaluation                                       4.2        2            8.1      2
Staff training                                             14.4        7           30.8      6
Agr.  services                                             45.5       24           84.3     18
Management                                                 12.2        6           62.1     13
Input service (KASCO)                                      71.4      37           117.6     24
Less Preproject Financing                                 (13.3)      (7)           -
Total base cost                                           195.6       100                  100
Physical contingency                                       12.2
Price contingency                                          57.4  _-                         -
TOTAL COSTS (1)                                           265.2       100        476.50    100
TOTAL COSTS                                               265.2       100        187.09    100
(1981 US$)                                                                  _
Note:  Appraisal costs expressed in January 1981 terms.
Actual costs expressed in current terms.
B.  Project Financing
SAR                     Actual
Source                      Estimate                     Costs       Actual
s           (%)           (N           ()      |
(N                    Million)
______________ __    Million)
FGN                                            78.8             30         61.6         13
KNSG                                           91.9             34        119.3         25
IBRD                                           78.1             30        241.0        51
Farmers & other  sources                       16.4              6         54.6         11
TOTAL COSTS  Zincluding contingencies)        265.2            100        476.5        100



- 20 -
Table 6:  Status of Covenants
Loan/Project Agreed
Covenant Nr;mber                                Subject/Covenarnt                               Status
Funding/Finaicing     Borrower to make adequate budgetary provisions at least three months   Inadequate
LA 3.02          in advance as set In annual budget of KNAPMU.                           & untimely
LA 6.01(b)         (Conditions of effectiveness of loan agreement). The borrower to       Complied
upen a bank account for KNAPMU of N6 million.                          w/delay
LA 6.Oi(c)         (Condition of effectiveness of loan agreement). A bank account to       Complied
be opened of N3 million as initial equity for KASCO.                   w/delay
PA 2.03(a) (i)       Kano State to open separate bank accounts (or KNAPMU and KASCO) for    Inadequate &
payments of good and services.                                         untimely
PA 2.03(a) (ii)      Kano State to authorize KNAPMU to establish overdraft facilities.       Inadequate &
_________________  _________________________________________________untimely
PA 2.03(a) (iii)      Kano State to make adequate budgetary provisions for KNAPMU at least  Inadequate &
three months in advance.                                               untimely
PA 2.03(a) (iv)      Kano State to make adequate budgetary provisions for its share of       Inadequate &
the cost of fertilizer.                                                untimely
PA 2.03(c)         KNAPMU to furnish to the Federal Government and the Bank annual         Complied
budget no later than four months.                                      w/delay
Procurement/Supply    The Borrower to ensure that Kano State receives adequate and timely   Inadequate &
LA 3.03          amounts of fertilizers for the project.                                 untimely
LA 2.06          Procurement of goods and civil works to be in accordance with           Complied
procedures consistent to those of the World Bank.                      v/frequent
problems of
interpreta-
tions
PA 2.02 Sch/D       Kano State to maintain KASCO ensuring timely supply *f farm inputs.    Supply of
input not
_________________________                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~adequate
Proiect          Borrower, Kano State and the Bank to review and me..: recommendations   Complied
Oraanization/Monitorin   for future of the project (by 31 December 1984)
a
and Evaluation
LA 3.05                                                                _.
LA 3.06          The Borrower to establish and maintain an organizati.- in a form        Complied
acceptable to the Bank to provide monitoring, evaluat-;i, planning
and technical support to KNAPMEU.
PA 2.01(b)         Kano State to establish and maintain a KN&RDEC with mem  rship,        Not complied
functions and responsibilities in agreement with the Bot.wer and      w/for '85
the Bank.                                                              nomination
of the new
KNARDEC
PA 2.01(c)         Kano State to establish and maintain a KNAPMU with membership,         Not complied
functions and responsibilities in agreement with the Borrower and      w/after
the Bank.                                                              nomination
of
KNARDEC '85
PA 2.01(d)         Kano State to establish for each zone a Zonal Development Committee    Complied
(ZDC)in a form satisfactory to the Bank.
PA 2.02          Kano State to establish KASCO with membership, functions and            Complied
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
PA 2.03(b) (a)       Kano State to detail arrangements for training and for road and         Partially
water supply maintenance.                                               complied
only
regarding
water supply



- 21 -
PA 2.09(b) (i)       Kano State to cause KNAPMU and KASCO to maintain records/monitor           Accounting
progress of the project and keep accounts identifying goods/services   statements
___________  financed by the loan.                                                      satisfactory
PA 2.14(iii)        Kano State to furnish the Bank and the Borrower with the detailed          Partially
plans for the long-term maintenance of feeder roads and rural water    complied
supplies.                                                                 only
regarding
water supply
PA 2.15(b)         Kano State to transfer to Ministry of Works and Housing                    Not complied
responsibilities for the O&M of roads with traffic in excess of 100    with
vehicles per day.
Staffing & Consultants
PA 2.04(a) (b)       Kano State to cause KASCO and KNAPMU to recruit senior management          MDs chosen
personnel under arrangement satisfactory to the Bank.                     w/o previous
consultation
with Bank
PA 2.05(a)         Kano State shall employ consultants with qualifications and                Satisfactory
experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Others
LA 3.04           The Borrower to review and agree with the Bank, the State and KASCO    Not
annually its cost recovery policies and practices.                        satisfactory



- 22 -
Table 7: Mission Data
No. of                    Specializatio    Performance
Mission         Mouth/Year        Persons      1?ield Days         ns           Status 2/       Rating Trend
Represented                            3/
Ident/Prep            1977/79            4             53             a,d             __    _
Appraisal              May 80            10            250            a,b,c                               _
__ __ _ __ _ ___ _  .__  d,e,f,g,h
Supervision 1         June 81            3             15             a,b,d    _ _  __
Supervision 2          10/81             3             15             a,b,d t_              _
Supervision 3          10/81             2              6              a,b       _     _    _
Supervision 4          11/81             3             15             a,b,d              I                I
Supervision 5          02/82             2              8              a,b               1                2
Supervision 6          10/82             1              3               a                   _         _
Supervision 7          10/82             2              8              a,b               3                3
Supervision 8          01/83             2              4              a,b                          _ __
Supervision 9          07/83             1              5               d                2                2
Supervision 10         01/84             1              3               b                   _         _
Supervision 11         05/84             3              15             a,b               2                3
Supervision 12         10/84             2             10               d       |        ___
Supervision 13         12/84             1              2               a                   _         _
Supervision 14         02/85             3              6              a,b                  _         _
Supervision 15         06/85             1              4               a                                 _
Supervision 16         07/86             3             18             a,b,d              4               4  /
Supervision 17         07/87             1              3               c                2                3
Supervision 18         07/87             1              3               c                2                3
Supervision 19         07/88             1              3               c                _               _
Supervision 20         11/89             1              3               c                3                2
1/     a - Agriculturist; b - Financial Analyst; c - Agricultural Economist; d - Irrigation Engineer;
e - Forestry Specialist; f - Training Specialist; g - Marketing Specialist; h - Roads Engineer.
2/      1 - problem free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems; 4 = critical
situation
|   3/  1 - improving; 2 - stationary; 3 - deterioring
1   4/  New Form 590 in use that shows rating for overall status.



- 23 -
Table 8: Staff Inputs
Loan/redit
Project 10  Number         Project Name            Fiscal Year  Preappralsal  Appraisal   Negotiation  Supervision    Other    Total
3NIRPA044   L19820
KANO AGRIC.DEVT                 1978             .4                                                            *4
1979           21.3                                                          21.3
1980           13.7        79.3                                       .3     93.3
1981                       27.9            5.3           3.0        8.4      44.5
1982                                                    31.3                 31.B
1983                                                    31.1                 31.1
1984                                                    23.3                 23
1985                                                    24.6                 24.t
1986                                                    27.9         .2      28.1
1987                                                    23.8                 23.8
1988                                                    18.2         .5      18.7
1989                                                    15.8                 15.8
1990                                                    19.9                 19.9
1991                                                     7.1                  7.,1
1992                                                       .2                  .2
wa_n~       6_Bi _ _U
Total for the Project Id 3NIRPA044                                       35.5       107.2            5.3         226.3       9.4      383.6



IBRD 15162R1
N >,                  /N     I    G      E      R
~~~.~ ~ rv. ,.i.vvd              on,            Ooi
z _ _  \                tC h                 r  r                       \R   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BIRNIWA            g- 
/  r h 7    .I ~~R f                                 y< g MAIGATA RI                                    :-                                   Cr 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f, A  KNO B     
X t N       t                  9t                            i            ^  r    qv!)  ( ~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT|
\ or'ol %//SUAIj ,4>.. 4,   cot  /  iRon
'    )i'  A  ~~~   f     n r | H   UrJrbrs                 '            t) \soX\) <~A H 
\> N X G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PosedRi  T/-  CP forn, Service Centers__ _4
s   \  J   v-  s    rX  -   \      /  X 2                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project Zonaol Banodaries
DrWO%E.i v                                     4AN                                             A .,O^.   \   Z \ _       Trainig Centers
-}5r E       N I                                                        R1J                          aisting FaJrm Service Centers
It   N  I  G  E  RAI  b 6 t A )                                           Rig.                 -    Pederol Onus  I Roads                 0    L9cot Government tedacrterR
KAbuo                                                                 -    State Roads                                S   CptalG   Ara Booundaries
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boe-   -  Stt Boun /daris                                                                                                           ~                          nrnuaorvuslooundor
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cno
CAMICOON                                                                                                                                                              bmMwucshmAoNnosatol
At{oes,  < _  i  f *ZgtJ><J#   (FFQN;TcI^~  ~                                                                        NOTE: lonoo Staebundrhion oshoown uon shi  o
e  Oc                                                                         P-d rk,,f  ,  ,                                                                                       d       a
4.  4 .                                                                             to                 30              Eb
MOWS$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EOIAY19



