Document of
The World Bank    FUF COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3089a-UNI
NIGERIA
KANO STATE
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 6, 1981
West Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =        Naira (N)
US$1                 =        Naira 0.55
N                    =        US$1.818
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1 metric ton        =        0.98
1 hectare (ha)      =        2.47 acre
1 kilometer (km)   =         0.62 mile
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADAs      -     Accelerated Development Areas
ADPs      -     Agricultural Development Projects
AI        -     Agricultural Instructor
APMU      -     Agricultural Projects Management Unit for West Africa
APMEPU    -     Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
(Kaduna)
ARMTI     -     Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ASP       -     Advanced Service Package
BSP       -     Basic Service Package
CFU       -     Central Fertilizer Unit
CMEU      -     Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
CRCS      -     Chief Reg4.strar of Cooperative Societies
CSDT      -     Central Staff Development and Training Division
DOC       -     Department of Cooperatives
ERR       -     Economic Rate of Return
FADP      -     Funtua Agricultural Development Project
FASU      -     Federal Agricultural' Support tJnit
FDA       -     Federal Department of Agriculture
FDRD      -     Federal Department of Rural Development
FGN       -     Federal Government of Nigeria
FMA       -     Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FO        -     Field Overseer
FSC       -     Farm Service Center
HJRBDA    -     Hadejia Jama'are River Basin Development Authority
IAR       -     Institute of Agricultural Research
KASCO     -     Kano Agricultural Supply Company
KNADP     -     Kano Agricultural Development Project
KNARDEC   -     Kano State Agriculture and Rural Development Executive Committee
KNAPMU    -     Kano Agricultural Programme Management Unit
KNSG      -     Kano State Government
KSCB      -     Kano State Cooperative Bank
LBA       -     Licensed Buying Agent
LGA             Local Government Area
LGC       -     Local Government Council
MANR      -     Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (Kano State)
NLG       -     Ministry of Local Government (Kano State)
MRCD      -     Ministry of Rural and Community Development (Kano State)
MTU       -     Mobile Training Unit
NWH       -     Ministry of Works and Housing (Kano State)
NACB      -     National Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NCB       -     National Cotton Board
NEPA      -     National Electric Power Authority
NFMC      -     National Fertilizer Marketing Company
PSL       -     Pre-Season Loans
RTDD      -     Research and Technical Development Division
RWS       -     Rural Water Supply
SLAR      -     Side-Looking Airborne Radar
WRECA     -     Water Resources Engineering and Construction Agency
ZDC       -     Zonal Development Committee
ZMIEU     -     Zonal Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its conents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NIGERIA
KANO STATE
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND        ............................................  1
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR         ..                            1
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                            5
A. Physical Features.                                       5
B.   Infrastructure and Social Services.                    6
C. Socio-Economic Features.                                 8
D.   Land Use, Farm Structure and Farm Enterprise           9
E.   State Agricultural Institutions .12
IV. THE PROJECT .14
A. Summary Description .14
B. Detailed Features .16
C. Cost Estimates .23
D. Proposed Financing .24
E. Procurement .27
F. Disbursements .27
G. Accounts and Audits .28
H. Programming and Budgeting .28
V.    TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS ....    ..........   29
A.   Crop Development .................................   29
B.   Forestry Development .............................   32
C.   Feeder Roads .....................................   32
D.   Rural Water Supplies .............................   33
VI. DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES .35
A. Demand .35
B. Marketing .35
C. Prices .36
This Report is based on the findings of an IBRD mission consisting of
Messrs. Kalkat, Cadario, des Bouvrie, Ranganathan, Miller, Fishwick,
Maguire (Bank), Jackson, Phocas, and Atwal (Consultants), who visited
Nigeria from May 2 to May 28, 1980 to appraise the project.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
Page No.
VII.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION ........    .........................   37
A.  Project Coordination and Management ....... .   37
B.  Staffing and Training ......  ........................    39
C.  Input Distribution ......   .........................   41
D.  Post-Project Development .....   ....................   43
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................. ..................   44
A.  Financial Implications for Farmers    ...............   44
B.  Financial Implications to Governments    ............  46
C.  Cost  Recovery  ...... ............... ...............  48
IX.  ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS  .....................................  48
A.  Project Benefits ................. ... ..............   48
B.  Economic  Rate  of  Return  ..........................  49
C.  Sensitivity and Risk Analysis ....    ................  50
X.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...   ..............  51
TABLE IN TEXT
Table 1   Summary of Project Costs                           25
Table 2   Summary Financing Plan                             26
Table 3   Feeder Road Program                                32
Table 4   Financial and Economic Prices                      37
Table 5   Summary of Farm Budgets                            44
Table 6   Per Hectare Crop Returns - Fadama Cultivation      46
ANNEX 1
Table 1   Rainfed Upland Crop Recommendations                53
Table 2   Rainfed Upland Crop Development Projections - Area   54
Table 3   Rainfed Crop Development Projections - Production    55
Table 4   Fadama Crop Recommendations                        56
Table 5   Fadama Crop Development Projections - Area         57
Table 6   Fadama Crop Development Projections - Production   58
Table 7   Farm Input Requirements                            59
Table 8   Summary of Agriculture Staff Requirements          60
Table 9   Bank Lending for Agriculture in Nigeria            61



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
Page No.
ANNEX 2
Table 1   Summary of Project Costs ........................   62
Table 2   Project Cost by Financing Category ............ ..   63
Table 3   Detailed Financing Plan .........................   64
Table 4   Summary of Project Cost and Financing ...........  65
Table 5  Farm Input Requirements ...  66
Table 6   Chemicals and Other Farm Inputs Requirements  ....  67
Table 7   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....  .........   68
Table 8   KASCO - Trading and Profit and Loss Statement ....   69
Table 9   KASCO Balance Sheet as on December 31 .... .......   70
Table 10  KASCO - Statement of Cash Flow .71
ANNEX 3   Financial Implications of Fertilizer and Subsidy
Mechanism .72
Table 1   Total Fertilizer Requirements ......  ..............   74
Table 2   Fertilizer Financing ......    ......................   75
Table 3   Incremental Fertilizer Cost in Current Terms ....   76
ANNEX 4
Table 1   Farm Models for Upland Cultivation ....  ..........   77
Table 2   Farm Budgets for Upland Cultivation:
Zones 1 and 3 ...................................   78
Table 3   Farm Budgets for Upland Cultivation:
Zones  2  and  4  ...................................  79
Table 4   Per Hectare Returns from Fadama Cultivation .....    80
ANNEX 5
Table 1   Upland Cultivation:  Incremental Production
and  Value  .......... .............................  81
Table 2   Fadama Cultivation:  Incremental Production
and  Value  .......... .............................  82
Table 3   Calculation of Economic Benefits ....   ............   83
Table 4   Summary of Economic Analysis ....................   84
Table 5   Sensitivity Analysis ......    ......................   85
ANNEX 6
Data and Related Documents in Project File .86
Charts
21829     - Internal Organization
21828     - Kano Agricultural Supply Company Limited (KASCO)



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
MAPS
IBRD 15065 - IBRD ausisted Agricultural Projects
IBRD 15162 - Kano State Agricultural Project



NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested World Bank
assistance for a statewide agricultural development project in Kano State.
This report appraises a five-year agricultural development program which has
been designed to increase the productivity, incomes and standard of living of
about 430,000 rural families, and improve the technical and managerial
capacity of State agricultural institutions. This project originated in 1977
in a request from the Kano State Rural Development Agency (PDA) to FGN's
Agricultural Projects Monitoring Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU) to
prepare an integrated rural development project. The state wished to pursue a
more coordinated approach to its rural development efforts, which were spread
over several agencies (paras 3.20 to 3.22), and to emulate the observed
success of Bank-financed ADPs in nearby Kaduna, Sokoto and Bauchi states
(Annex 1, Table 9). Preparation continued on behalf of MANR after the dis-
solution of RDA in 1978 and the report was completed in October 1979. Like
the three other proposed statewide agricultural development projects (ADPs)
in northern Nigeria, the Kano ADP would provide a broad range of farm support
services, physical infrastructure and institutional modifications.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01      Nigeria.  The Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 19 states
and covers a total land area of 924,000 km2. Total 1979 population is
estimated at roughly 83 million, which is nearly 20% of the total for the
African continent. Average GDP per capita, estimated at around US$670 in
1979, is low and unevenly distributed. Income in rural areas is considerably
less, possibly one third of urban per capita incomes.
2.02      Economic Trends.  The Nigerian economy is dominated by the oil
sector, which accounts for about 23% of GDP, over 90% of export earnings and
80% of government revenue. Increases in oil prices since 1973/74 have
enabled the government to embark on.massive investment programs which
contributed to GNP growth, averaging 7% per annum between 1973 and 1977.
However, growth has been concentrated in those sectors that benefitted in
particular from the rapid expansion in government expenditure, i.e., infra-
structure, education and large-scale manufacturing, and performance of the
primary productive sectors, notably agriculture, has been disappointing.
Furthermore, the economy has been unable to generate goods and services at
the rate demanded, and consequently, the domestic price level rose by an
average of 20% per annum between 1974 and 1979. The combination of a high



level of oil output and a doubling of the price of oil during 1979 has
temporarily removed financial constraints.  The price of oil is expected to
continue to rise gradually in real terms through 1990, and, although oil
production may not exceed the present level of 2.15 million barrels per day,
the resource position over the next four years is likely to be comfortable.
Whereas the overall growth prospects for the medium term are good, the
longer run outlook depends on the success of the effort to diversify the
economy, and in particular, to improve performance in the agricultural
sector.
2.03      Agricultural Sector. 1/ Agriculture is the leading non-oil sector
in Nigeria, supporting 60% of the population directly, and providing about 23%
of GDP, nearly 5% of total exports and 70% of non-oil exports. Production is
overwhelmingly by smallholders, using traditional, manual technology. In the
north, annual crops predominate (grains, cotton and groundnuts), while in the
south, cash income is largely from tree crops (cocoa, oil palm and rubber)
with subsistence support from root crops and grains.
2.04      Since 1970, agricultural production ha-s stagnated, with annual
growth rates (below 1%) less than half population growth. Domestic food
prices have risen, agricultural exports have declined, and imports of food
rose fifteenfold between 1970 and 1978. Imports of food represented 6.8% of
gross calorie supply in 1976, and are estimated to rise to 15% in 1980.
If present trends continue, imports will contribute 24% of gross supply by
1985. Inflation for food commodities has been running at about 25% per
year--significantly higher than for the economy as a whole.
2.05      Development Strategy.  Successive governments have emphasized the
importance of improving agricultural performance. The revised Third Five
Year Development Plan (1975-80) allocated N3.0 billion for agricultural
development--partly for direct production projects (mechanized agriculture,
capital-intensive irrigation schemes) and partly for support to smallholders.
However, the direct production schemes have proved expensive and have achieved
little development impact, while past national smallholder programs (Operation
Feed the Nation, National Accelerated Food Production Program) lacked the
institutional capability to deliver services effectively to farmers. More
recently, however, experience from Bank-supported agricultural development
projects has indicated the shape that an effective national smallholder
program could take, and such a program is incorporated in the new government's
National Food Production Plan (para. 2.09).
2.06      Development Constraints.  There are three main sets of constraints
to agricultural development: (a) the generation and diffusion of information
on improved technology, (b) the supply of productive inputs, and (c) feeder
road links from farm to market. Agricultural research has been inadequate, is
in some parts of the country non-existent, and has often failed to address
farmers' most pressing problems. Links between research and the extension
1/ A full description and policy analysis is given in Report 2181-UNI (1979).



services have been weak, and the extension services (divided between States
and Local Government Councils) have been short of trained manpower and often
lacking in vigorous direction and coordination.
2.07      Application of improved technology requires access to supplies of
improved inputs such as inorganic fertilizer, pesticides and simple farm
machinery. The structure of government subsidies on inputs, especially fer-
tilizer, has been such as largely to preclude commercial involvement by the
private sector in distributing such inputs, while the public sector has lacked
both the physical infrastructure and the effectively managed institutions
required to accomplish this task. At the same time the limited budgetary
resources available for subsidy have imposed artificial ceilings on total
input availability. Meanwhile, responsibility for construction and mainte-
nance of rural roads has been transferred to Local Government Councils (LGCs,
established in 1977) which, while having important long-term potential
in furthering rural development, are at present critically short of both
administrative and technical expertise.
2.08      Bank Role, Key Sector Issues and Future Strategy.  Between 1971 and
1980 the Bank has committed US$443.2 million in loans for 19 projects in
Nigeria's agricultural sector. The projects are listed in Annex 1, Table 9.
They include loans, primarily for smallholder development, in oil palm, cocoa,
livestock and irrigated rice, as well as a forestry plantation project. There
is also one loan designed to address manpower constraints in agricultural
services, by assisting the establishment of an Agricultural and Rural Manage-
ment Training Institute (ARMTI). In addition, the Bank has now approved a
total of nine area-specific Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs), mostly
in the North or Middle Belt. Within the ADP project areas, semi-autonomous
project management units have provided strong direction to upgraded and
expanded extension services, undertaken local, adaptive field trials, estab-
lished input distribution networks of Farm Service Centers (FSCs) and con-
structed and upgraded rural feeder roads on force account. The first three
ADPs have completed their development period, and while analysis of field
data is still under way, 1/ evaluation studies show that the projects achieved
significant farmer impact and production increases.
2.09      The success of the early ADPs on a relatively small scale has
encouraged the Nigerian authorities and the Bank to explore ways of bringing
a similar package of extension, inputs and feeder roads to much larger numbers
of farmers. With Bank assistance, the Government has prepared and published
a National Food Production Plan which sets a five-year target for bringing
ADPs, or similar, but simplified service packages to be known as Accelerated
Development Areas (ADAs), to the whole Nigerian rural population. The Bank
will be ready to assist in implementing such a program. At the same time,
it must be recognized that not all sectoral issues can be resolved through
an expanded farm service program.
1/   Results of the projects are to be reviewed under Bank-sponsored research
projects RPO 671-30 and RPO 671-88. Project completion reports are now
being prepared.



- 4 -
2.10      Under Loans 1092-UNI and 1455-UNI, the Bank helped establish
the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU)
at Kaduna. In its five years of existence, APMEPU has steadily grown into
an important Nigerian institution which provides the Federal Government
the means to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the ADP program.
APMEPU has also played an important role in improving training programs
at project level. Because of the wide coverage of existing and proposed
ADPs, and the need to initiate the ADA program as an integral part of
Nigeria-s food strategy, the Bank has recently negotiated a proposed Agri-
cultural Technical Assistance project (Report 3207a-UNI). This project will
not only expand APMEPU's capabilities but will also establish four new Federal
Agricultural Support Units (FASUs) that will, on an ecological zone basis,
provide a management information service and additional technical support,
particularly in training, agronomy and rural engineering, to both ADPs and
ADAs. It would thus significantly redress the current manpower constraints
affecting the Federal Department of Rural Development, and would provide
significant professional support for Government agricultural policy and
strategy planning.
2.11      Issues that need to be approached on a sector-wide basis include:
(a) research, (b) supply of trained manpower, (c) marketing institutions and
pricing policy, (d) procurement, subsidization and distribution of farm
inputs, and (e) development of agricultural credit policies and institu-
tions. In the areas of research, credit and marketing, Bank assistance may
take the form of future national projects, and identification work in these
areas is under way. In developing credit structures, it is regarded as
important that interest rate spreads be adequate to support viable credit
institutions.  The forthcoming Third Cocoa Project would address this issue.
Sector work is being undertaken on pricing policy, and will shortly be
initiated in the manpower planning sector, where it will supplement Bank
efforts through the establishment of ARMTI (para. 2.08) and through the
large training components included in ADPs and other projects.  This project
and the other statewide ADPs have provided an opportunity for FGN to address
the needs for the improvement of fertilizer procurement and distribution (para
2.12). These projects should also lead to satisfactory mechanisms for supply
of government funds to agricultural support services, in view of the sometimes
irregular financing experienced in the past (para. 4.35).
2.12      To meet the fertilizer demand of Nigeria's expanding agricultural
sector and to ensure adequate and timely supply of fertilizer to farmers
(including those under the Bank assisted ADPs), the Federal Executive Council
has recently authorized the establishment, under the Companies Act of 1968, of
the National Fertilizer Marketing Company (NFMC), which would shortly replace
the present Federally-operated Central Fertilizer Unit. Reporting to the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture, NFMC would operate along commercial lines.
It would be responsible for the procurement of Nigeria's total fertilizer
requirements and for wholesale distribution to sales agents throughout
Nigeria. NFMC would hold and manage buffer stocks and sell fertilizer at
prices determined and agreed from time to time by FGN and the States. To
ensure that the company would operate on sound commercial principles, satis-
factory arrangements would be made for the employment of qualified and



experienced staff. Although Government approval to establish NFMC has
already been obtained, the incorporation of the company including the calling
up of the issued capital and the recruitment of staff will take some time.
The company if expected to become operational in time to deliver fertilizer
for the 1982 season. The quantity of fertilizer and the arrangements for its
distribution in 1981 are satisfactory.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
3.01      General.  Kano State is in the north central part of Nigeria (Map
15065). It has an area of 43,070 km2, 5% of the total area of the country.
The project area includes 19 of the 20 local government areas in the state,
Kano Municipality (500 km2) being excluded as it contains little agricul-
tural activity. As the state is contiguous to the Funtua ADP (FADP) area to
the southwest, and has similar climatic and agronomic characteristics, it
has been possible to proceed with a statewide ADP in Kano without the
precedent of a sub-state project. 1/
3.02      Topography and Soils.  The northwestern, western and southern
areas of the state are characterized by gently undulating plains overlaying
the Basement Complex, a formation consisting of granites and other crystal-
line rocks. The northeast is underlain by the Chad Formation, comprised
of sands and clays deposited by rivers flowing off the Basement Complex into
the Lake Chad Basin. Its topography is marked by alluvial plains of existing
and old river systems, interspersed with areas of sand dunes. Elevations
rise gradually from 350 m in the northeast to 650 m in the southwest. The
main drainage system is the Challawa/Hadejia system, which flows northeast
through the center of the state to the Lake Chad Basin. The Gari/Thomas
river system drains the northwest. Soils of the state are inherently of low
fertility. The only exceptions are certain fadama or valley bottom alluvial
soils of heavy texture, mostly located in the main river valleys and flood
plains. Otherwise the upland soils are light in texture and low in exchange-
able bases, plant nutrients and humus content, and generally deficient in
1/   The FADP, along with the Gombe and Gusau ADPs, was one of the first
Bank-financed ADPs in Nigeria. Completed in 1980, FADP has shown that
the basic package of improved extension supported by regular in-service
training and adaptive research, a properly managed input supply system,
and construction of feeder roads, can achieve significant results
in agroclimatic conditions very similar to those in much of the Kano
project area. Total annual production of main crops have expanded
significantly and production gains are expected to show at least 25%
over preproject levels. This data will be further refined and detailed
in a Project Completion Report currently under preparation.



- 6 -
micronutrients. The deficiency problem is even more acute on the very light
textured soils formed from the Chad Basin deposits and wind-blown sand on
the higher elevations. Such very light sandy soils are of doubtful value
for crop production and, in general, are best left to grazing or used for
forestry.
3.03      Climate.  Rainfall characteristics show a decreasing pattern
from south to north. Mean annual rainfall in the south is 1,000 mm during
a season averaging 150 days, from late May through October. In the north,
mean annual rainfall is 635 mm during a season lasting 90-100 days, from
late June through September. The peak rainfall period is mid-August to
early September. The period November-March is marked by dry northeasterly
winds of the Harmattan.
3.04      Vegetation.  The original vegetation of the state was a type of
savanna made up of various species of grasses, bushes and trees. Intensive
cultivation, both shifting and static, has very considerably changed the
natural vegetation, which now only exists in relatively small pockets in
forest or game reserves and in non-arable areas. Because of the variation
in rainfall from north to south, there is a small portion of Sahel savanna
at the extreme northeastern tip of the state. The bulk of the state is
classified as the Sudan Savanna Zone. However, the northern part of this
zone, north of a line running east-west through Kano City, is markedly drier
than the portion to the south. Parkland trees are common in the southern
part of the Sudan zone, but the numbers of such trees are being rapidly
reduced due to cutting for firewood. In the northern part, such trees are
less evident, especially in the extreme north, where they are generally
absent. In the southern areas which have been allowed to revert to a bush
fallow, coppice-type growth is common, resulting in a reduction in the
amount of grass and an increase in the amount of woody shrubs, thereby
spoiling the grazing.
B. Infrastructure and Social Services
3.05      Roads and Communications.  On the two-thirds of Kano State which
is underlain by the Basement Complex, the trunk road network is well deve-
loped. Road development in the remaining north eastern part of the State is
poor, however, due to construction difficulties in the light sandy soils of
the Chad Formation. The road network comprises 890 km of paved federal
roads, 320 km of paved state roads, and 220 km of gravelled roads. Several
Federal and State roads have been reconstructed recently or are under
construction, while most others are in good condition. There are about 270
km of all-weather feeder roads plus a further 2,100 km of dry season motor-
able tracks. The responsibility for feeder roads is presently shared by the
newly-created Ministry of Rural and Community Development (MRCD), and the
Local Government Councils (LGCs). While policy is at a formative stage,
there is no clear division of responsibility for feeder road development and
maintenance. Neither the Ministry nor the LGCs have capacity to perform



these functions adequately, although the Ministry of Works and Housing
provides technical assistance as required. The railway lines from Lagos and
Port Harcourt branch at Zaria, with one line passing through the state via
Kano terminating at Nguru in Borno State. There is an international airport
at Kano.
3.06      Power.  Electricity is supplied to the major towns by NEPA
(National Electric Power Authority), while a modest number of small diesel-
operated generating units have been installed under the program run by the
Rural Electrification Board.
3.07      Water Supply.  Piped water is supplied to the capital through the
Greater Kano Water Supply Scheme which also serves some 80 larger villages
within a 45 km radius of the city. The system is operated by the Kano State
Water Resources Engineering and Construction Agency (WRECA), which has also
been charged with the supply of water to all settlements with a population
of over 5,000 inhabitants. In such places boreholes are provided, equipped
with pumps, storage tanks (of 20-50,000 gallons) and reticulated standpipe
systems. These facilities are generally well run but very badly in need of
expansion. Water supply for communities of less than 5,000 inhabitants
falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural and Community
Development (MRCD). The Hadejia-Jama-are River Basin Development Authority
(HJRBDA) is also to some extent active in rural water supply programs
within its territory. In all, some 7,500 concrete wells (mainly hand-dug)
have been constructed to date. Of these some 3,000 have fallen in disrepair
and another 9,000 such facilities would have to be constructed to meet basic
requirements. Village water supplies are mainly drawn from seasonal streams,
open wells and some reservoirs. They are invariably badly polluted and a
hazard to health. The maintenance of these structures is the responsibility
of the MRCD and in some instances of the LGCs, but the means are inadequate
to carry out these functions satisfactorily. To address these problems in
an accelerated manner, a new rural water supply strategy is now under
consideration, aimed at phasing out the sinking of open wells in favor of
large-scale programs of boreholes equipped with hand or motorized pumps.
The project would support this effort.
3.08      Health.  Hospitals are the main centers for treatment in the
state, annually accounting for 50,000 inpatient visits and 65% of the more
than 2,000,000 recorded outpatient visits. The Health Services Management
Board operates the 16 general hospitals, eight of which are located in Kano
municipality, the others being at Gwarzo, Danbatta, Kazaure, Gumel, Hadejia,
Birnin Kudu, and two at Rano. Three new hospitals are being built under the
1975-80 Development Plan. Local governments operate about 140 dispensaries
(125 in rural areas) and 270 centers for treatment of leprosy. Ministry
staff number over 1,000, including 120 doctors and 400 nurses.
3.09      Education.  Primary school enrollment was 460,710 in 1978.  This
represented a nearly 200% increase over the 1976 enrollment, resulting
from the national Universal Primary Education policy adopted in 1977, but
accounted for only 40% of the primary school-age population in the state.



Local governments and local education authorities administer the nearly
3,000 primary schools, while the state Ministry of Education is responsible
for professional supervision and curriculum development. Post-primary
education facilities operated in the state include 35 teacher training
colleges, 32 secondary schools, and 5 vocational/technical schools. Bayero
University and Kano Technical College are located in Kano Municipality.
Several ministries, notably Health and Agriculture, operate a number of
specialized training institutions.
C. Socio-Economic Features
3.10      Demography.  Accurate population statistics for Nigeria are not
available. The 1973 census has been abandoned formally by the FGN, and the
most recent published figures are derived from the 1963 census, assuming
growth rates of 5% p.a. for Kano Municipality and 2.5% p.a. for the re-
mainder of the state. On this basis, the 1980 state population is officially
estimated at 9.0 million, of which 756,000 (8.4%) reside in Kano Municipa-
lity. It is estimated that 85% of the rural population is involved in
agriculture, and that the number of farm families is about 614,000. 1/ The
state is the most densely populated in the north, with an overall density of
210 persons per km2. The average density in the four LGAs immediately
surrounding Kano Municipality is twice the state average, i.e., 420 persons
per km2. About 15% of the population lives in settlements of 10,000 or
more people (including Kano Municipality), with another 25% in settlements
of 5,000-10,000.
3.11      Land Tenure.  Ownership of land is vested in the state.  Farmers
hold usufructuary rights, and the rights to a particular piece of land can
be passed on by inheritance, sale or rental. The land owned by a particular
family is often in fragmented holdings within a varying radius of the
village. Islamic inheritance law has resulted in continuous subdivision of
existing holdings among family members. The two main customary forms of
land tenure are gandu, under which the land right is vested in the family
head but the land is worked and its produce shared by all family members,
and gayauna, under which the land is worked by the family member who has the
right to its use. The gandu is of particular importance as it enables the
individual to hold off-farm employment while still enjoying the benefits of
agriculture. Land pressures have mounted due to population growth, conti-
nual subdivision, land accumulation by wealthy individuals, and public
requirements (roads, schools, irrigation schemes, etc.). As a result, land
1/   Population estimates for Nigeria are unreliable.  On existing ADPs,
post-appraisal baseline surveys suggest that the actual number of farm
families is considerably lower than official estimates. On this basis,
the 1978 population of Kano State would have been 5.8 million and the
1980 population would be about 6.1 million, of which Kano Municipality
would be 10%.  The number of farm families would be 614,000.



prices have mounted, reaching over N1,000 (US$1,800) per hectare near Kano
Municipality, and land has become increasingly important as a speculative
and readily liquid asset. Payment of compensation is usually required when
taking land for public uses, and typically includes payments for land,
crops, buildings, and economic trees.
D. Land Use, Farm Structure & Farm Enterprise
3.12      Land Use.  About 60% of Kano State-s 43,000 km2 land area, some
2.6 million ha, is under cultivation. In the densely populated areas,
80-90% of the land area is cultivated. In the northern part of the state,
certain areas of very light sandy soils have been left fallow, and it is
possible that in such areas shifting cultivation is still practiced to some
extent. The bulk of the agricultural lands are upland and used for rainfed
crops such as sorghum, millet, cowpeas, groundnuts, maize, and cotton.
3.13      While total cultivated area is 2.6 million ha, the inclusion of
intercropped areas gives a total upland cropped area of 4.9 million ha.
In addition to the upland areas, a considerable agricultural potential does
exist in the valleys along the main river systems of the State, known as
fadama lands. Accurate data are not available but it has been estimated
that the main fadama systems and their floodplain areas cover 163,000 ha:
17,000 ha in Zone 1, 28,000 ha in Zone 2, 70,000 ha in Zone 3 and 48,000 ha
in Zone 4. During the rainy season rice, maize, sugarcane, sorghum, and
some tobacco are grown in the fadama lands, while onions, tomatoes, other
vegetables, and wheat are grown during the dry season under irrigation. On
the fringe fadama lands, sorghum and maize are the main crops. The northern
two zones (Zones 2 and 4) are markedly drier than Zones 1 and 3 in the
south.
3.14      Farming Systems.   Cultivation is overwhelmingly carried out by
hand, although a few tractors have been introduced in recent years.
Work-oxen are rare. Fadama areas are worked intensively to produce high
value cash crops, but most farm enterprises are rainfed. There is no
evidence of any particular rotational system, and intense land pressure has
reduced or eliminated the fallow period in many areas of the State. Farm
size varies from as little as 0.2 ha in areas close to Kano and fadama lands
to holdings in excess of 200 ha. The average farm size in Zones 1 and 3 is
of the order of 2.5 ha, and in Zones 2 and 4, generally about 3 ha. Farms
are generally fragmented and field sizes vary significantly. Most of the
cultivators in the State are Hausa, the remainder generally being settled
Fulani pastoralists who now cultivate crops as well as keep animals. Mean
holding size for Kano State is 2.8 ha, but there is great size dispersion,
especially in Zone 1, adjacent to Kano City, where mean holding sizes in the
different LGAs vary from 1.6 ha to 5.1 ha with a zonal mean holding of 2.5
ha. Families generally h,ave 7 or 8 members, with a mean for Kano State of
7.6 persons per family.



- l.iA -
3.15      Farm Labor.   Family members provide about 85% of total on-farm
labor input on an average traditional farm.  Non-family labor is provided
by hired laborers, engaged at N3 to N4 per day, or on a piece-rate
basis, as well as by traditional reciprocal labor. Religious and social
restrictions tend to restrict adult female input to threshing and processing
of ouitput in the family compound, the bulk of family labor input to on-farm
activities coming mainly from adult males (55-60%). The share of children-
supplied labor can be expected to drop with expanding primary and secondary
education.  On-farm activities on the traditional farm are highly seasonal,
with 90% of family labor input being supplied from June to November.
3.16      Farm Incomes.   Evaluation of Bank-assisted projects in neigh-
boring Kaduna and Bauchi states has not yet yielded information on farm
incomes or income distribution. Recently published studies 1/ suggest that
the relative shortage of land, with its consequent adverse effect on income
distribution, can be offset by increasing the proportion of other tradi-
tional inputs, such as labor, or by the introduction of land-intensive
improved technology, such as the project would promote. Access to land near
Zaria, which is adjacent to Kano State, appears relatively egalitarian, with
Gini coefficients for cultivated land ranging from 0.31 to 0.34, and for net
farm income ranging from 0.30 and 0.36, in villages with reasonable access
to markets. 2/ Rural income distribution tends to show a high degree of
income equality, with ratios of mean per capita incomes between poorest and
richest groups only 1:5, and 1976 average per capita incomes of only N99
(US$180) even for the richest 10% of households. 3/ A life cycle earnings
pattern suggests that the observed distribution may be partially accounted
for by factors internal to the family (age of household head or family
size), and that under a longer-term income concept, the degree of income
inequality would be even less. As the proposed project emphasizes broad
coverage of the farmer population and concentrates on low-cost improvements
to existing techniques, it is consistent with maintaining the existing low
income inequality.
3.17      Crop Production.  The bulk of agricultural production comes from
manually cultivated rainfed crops. Fadama areas contribute substantially to
the farmer's income as they produce most of the cash crops, mainly during
1/   David W. Norman, et al.  "Technical Change and the Small Farmer in
Hausaland, Northern Nigeria." Department of Agricultural Economics,
Michigan State University, East Lansing, 1979.
2/   The Gini Coefficient, a number between 0 and 1, is used as a statistical
measure of inequality: the lower the figure the more equal the distribu-
tion. More inaccessible villages had greater holding size and slightly
higher income inequality, with Gini Coefficients of 0.40 and 0.50
respectively.
3/   Peter G. Matlin "Income distribution among farmers in northern Nigeria:
empirical results and policy implications." Michigan State University,
East Lansing, 1979.



- 11 -
the dry season. Agro-climatic conditions, in particular the short duration
and low level of rainfall in the north, together with lighter soils, affect
the cropping patterns. The most important crop in the south (Zones 1 and 3)
is sorghum, which is planted on over 35% of the cultivated area. Millet,
the second main crop, covers 26% of the cropped area. To the north (Zones 2
and 4) agroclimatic conditions become less favorable, millet predominates
and is planted on up to 90% of cropland. In the southern part of Zones 1
and 3, where rainfall is higher, maize is becoming popular. Cowpeas are
extensively grown in all areas of the State, especially in Zones 1 and 3.
Groundnuts have lost their importance following the disastrous spread of the
aphid-borne disease, rosette, which wiped out the crop in 1975, and poor
marketing. Cotton is grown in very limited areas. Intercropping of two or
more crops is predominant. It has many advantages for the region in that it
permits filling in of a crop which may not have germinated well, provides
better utilization of available soil and allows adjustment to uncertainty in
that one crop may survive while the other fails. Farmers start the season
by planting food crops first, usually millet, which may have sorghum or
other crops subsequently planted with it. There appears to be no evidence
of any particular rotational systems. The choice of crops mainly depends on
the agroclimatic conditions, the farmer's particular food needs, market
conditions and location of fields in relation to his house. Throughout the
state, sorghum accounts for about 29% of the cropped area, millet for 34%,
cowpeas for 27%, groundnuts 9%, maize 1% and cotton, 1%. Yields of all
upland crops are low due to poor technology used in all aspects of crop
production. Fertilizers are little used, the average usage at present
estimated at 6 kg NPK per hectare. Currently available crop varieties are
low yielding, weeding is either neglected or done too late and pest control
is virtually non-existent except for some sporadic interventions of govern-
ment sprayings on cotton in cases of acute emergency.
3.18       Reliable estimates for the area of available fadama land actually
used for traditional wet and dry season cultivation are not available, but
estimates based mainly on observations bring the total fadama area presently
under cultivation to 30,000-40,000 ha. These fadama areas provide an impor-
tant source of food and cash income during the dry season. Traditionally,
the fadama lands are utilized in two ways: (a) by growing rice in fields
inundated temporarily during the wet season; and (b) by growing dry season
vegetables with water lifted from hand dug wells or riverstreams by
"shadoofs".  Onions, tomatoes, other vegetables and wheat are dry season
crops grown under irrigation, while rice, sugarcane and tobacco (in very
limited areas mainly in Zone 4 and some in Zone 2) are wet season crops.
Tobacco is grown through special contracts between the two tobacco companies
operating in the State and the tobacco cooperative societies. Yields of
fadama crops compared to rainfed upland crops are generally low, although an
increasing number of farmers experience better results, especially with
tomatoes and onions, through the use of good-quality imported seeds of
improved varieties and increased fertilization. Recent observations have
indicated an increasing spread of nematodes in fields planted with tomatoes
for a number of consecutive years, a situation which warrants quick action
in terms of prevention through long-term rotations and, where possible, the
application of nematocides.



- 12 -
3.19      Although diets are generally adequate, especially in families
which have a small fadama vegetable plot, cereals provide the bulk of
calorific intake in Kano State. The major foods are sorghum and millet,
which are preferred to maize (grown in the south of the state) because
they are easier to process. Production of rootcrops, mostly cassava, is
limited.  Cowpeas and grou-dnuts are the main source of vegetable protein,
although legumes are less popular as many women are unfamiliar with their
preparation. Meat and yogurt provide limited animal protein. Occasional
income from hired labor and remittances from relatives in urban areas allow
families to purchase small amounts of sugar and salt. With increasing
income, families show increased demand for wheat and rice, although generally
little of a family-s small cash income is spent on food. Most crops destined
for human use are processed using simple methods at, or near, the point of
consumption.
E. State Agricultural Institutions
3.20      Government.  The state Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Re-
sources (MANR) comprises the Agricultural Services, Irrigation, Livestock,
Fisheries, Produce Inspection and Agricultural Engineering Divisions. The
Agricultural Services Division is responsible for training, seed production,
farm institutes (young farmers training), and distribution of fertilizers.
It also controls general extension work, although LGCs have assumed some
responsibility for agriculture. The LGCs have some lower-level extension
staff, but they receive guidance and training from the supervisory staff of
MANR. There are about 200 field extension workers with the Agricultural
Services Division and the LGCs, equivalent to a staff: farmer ratio of about
1:4,000.
3.21      The Ministry of Local Government coordinates the activities of
LGCs. The LGCs are responsible for a wide range of functions as laid down
in the Kano State Edict R of September 1, 1976. They are, however, in the
process of initial development and do not yet have the capacity to tackle
many of the responsibilities (feeder roads, markets, grazing areas, fuelwood
plantations, rural water supplies, etc.) assigned to them.
3.22      A new Ministry of Rural and Community Development (MRCD) was
created in 1980.  It is charged with the responsibility of rural development
including water supplies (for communities up to 5,000 population), feeder
roads, forestry, rural industries, rural electrification, and agricultural
credit. The Ministry is not yet organized or fully staffed. 1/ The Govern-
ment has agreed to assign responsibility for feeder roads and water supply
in villages below 1,500 persons to the eroject, allowing MRCD to concentrate
on its other responsibilities~
1/   Some staff have been transferred from Water Resources Engineering
Construction Agency (WRECA).



- 13 -
3.23      Marketing.  The marketing of agricultural produce by the farmers
is essentially one of traditional exchange, sometimes involving barter.
Sales are made either in villages or in the more than 300 local markets.
The marketing system from the producer to the consumer is comprised of a
number of functionaries such as farmer-cum-trader, bulking trader, rural-
urban link wholesaler, urban wholesaler-cum-commission agent and urban
retailer. For retail sale in the villages, rural retailers play a signifi-
cant role. In the inter-state transactions, inter-regional wholesalers,
regional wholesalers, urban wholesalers, and retailers form the chain to the
consumer. The farmer is estimated to get about 70% of the price paid by the
ultimate consumer, with about 4% going to the transporter and the balance
being shared by a number of intermediaries.
3.24      In 1977 FGN created seven commodity-specific marketing boards
(cocoa, cotton, groundnut, grains, palm produce, rubber, tubers and root-
crops), charged with guaranteeing the purchase of satisfactory produce at a
set price, exporting purchases surplus to domestic needs, and the general
development and rehabilitation of producing areas, including ensuring
an adequate supply of fertilizers and necessary inputs. Unfortunately,
the boards, as presently set up and managed, are ineffective. Their short-
comings, mainly the lack of adequate financial resources and poor market
intelligence, are now under study. Government involvement in food crop
marketing takes place mainly through the Nigerian Grains Board (NGB) and the
National Grains Production Company Limited. Their impact has also been
limited, with inadequate performance in absorbing ADP-generated production
in excess of the capacity of the private merchants who dominate the whole
marketing system. Traders, as a general rule, clear crops efficiently and
trading margins are not excessive. Satisfactory marketing development is
severely hampered by the lack of any effective crop and marketing informa-
tion system or services. Although traders seem relatively well informed, by
their own methods, over limited areas and crop ranges, there is no official
intelligence system. Efforts are now being made to establish a Market
Intelligence and Crop Forecasting Unit in FDA, and UNDP/FAO assistance
has been sought. The Bank is assisting in the reform and reorganization of
the management of NGB, with funds from the Ilorin Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 1668-UNI) financing the cost of consultants over a 12-month
period to design and help implement a new marketing operation. The recently
negotiated Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (para 2.10) includes
further support for NGB.
3.25      Credit.  Under the current FGN subsidy arrangements, credit
is not generally required for inputs, fertilizer being subsidized to about
88% of its cost. Larger farmers need short-term loans for meeting current
expenses (largely for hired labor) and medium and long-term loans for
capital investment in farm machinery and equipment including work oxen,
ploughs, carts and pumpsets, purchase of animals, setting up of poultry
houses and purchase of chickens. While the short-term pre-season loans
(PSL) for agricultural production are made available by cooperatives with
finances from the Kano State Cooperative Bank under State government guaran-
tee, the medium-term loans are advanced under different schemes by MANR, and



- 14-
now, by the recently created MRCD and the Ministry of Trade and Industry and
Cooperatives, again with resources provided by the NACB. For the short-term
loans for agricultural production, farmers are now required to pay interest
at 12%. The management of these loan schemes is far from satisfactory, and
needs to be improved to expand coverage and improve recoveries.
3.26        Cooperatives   The State had 718 primary cooperative societies
and 31 tobacco farmers- societies in 1978-79. Total membership was about
55,000. Primary societies advanced PSL amounting to N863,000 in 1978-79,
of which N798,000 has been repaid. In the hierarchy of cooperatives, the
primary societies are affiliated to the 20 LGA cooperative unions. Produc-
tion loans are made directly to the primaries from the Kano State Coopera-
tive Bank. Those unions, which themselves are affiliated at the state level
to the Kano State Cooperative Federation, operate primarily as consumers-
coops, mainly in larger centers. There are also a few thrift societies of
salary earners and some primary Coop stores.
3.27        The Kano State Cooperative Bank, established under the 1968
Companies Act operates primarily as a commerciar bank and plays no promo-
tional or supervisory role in the development of cooperatives. Of its
total 1978-79 loans and advances of about N7.1 million, only about 12%
were devoted to pre-season agricultural loans. The permitted levels of
finance per farmer are low and inadequate for agricultural needs.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
4.01      In accord with FGN and KNSG policies, the primary objective of
the project is to increase food production and farm incomes. A second,
extremely important goal is to strengthen state institutions, primarily the
Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) and Rural and Commu-
nity Development (MRCD). The project, which would be implemented over five
years, mid-1981 through mid-1986, would benefit some 430,000 farm families
cultivating on average 2.8 ha. It would include:
(a) Farm and Crop Development
-  increasing production of the major crops on about 900,000 ha
through the introduction of improved farming practices,
strengthened extension services and provision of improved
seeds, fertilizer, crop protection and other support services;
-  improving farm management through the introduction of an
advanced package which, where applicable, would augment the
improved package by the use of workbulls, mechanization, and
herbicides; and planned water management and small-scale pump
irrigation on the fadama lands;



- 15 -
- carrying out an applied research program to test varieties of
agronomic practices, new implements and farm systems;
- building up a seed production service to enable farmers to
replace seed every fourth year;
- establishing forest nurseries for on-farm and communal planting
programs; and
- improving land use planning capability.
(b) Civil Works
- constructing about 1,440 km of feeder roads and training of
staff in their subsequent maintenance;
- improving rural water supplies, mainly through drilling some
1,000 boreholes and rehabilitating some 1,000 wells; and
- constructing project offices, workshops, stores, staff houses
and farm service centers (FSCs).
(c) Institutional Support
- providing for a management structure, supported by adequate
technical and administrative staff, logistical support and
funds, to implement the project, evaluate project progress, and
provide guidelines for further development;
- adapting and improving the existing state training institutions
to meet the short-term technical needs of the project, while
also developing a longer-term comprehensive staff development
program;
- supporting the operations of the Kano Agricultural Supply
Company (KASCO), a wholesale agency operating on commercial
lines, to take over from the State the distribution of inputs,
and to handle their procurement. Distribution would be orga-
nized through FSCs and, where already viable, primary coopera-
tive societies;
- assisting with on-farm storage while making provision for
construction of short-term grain storage facilities; and
- integrating LGs into the operations of the project through
technical and advisory committees and training programs.
(d)  Technical Assistance
- recruitment of suitably qualified staff, largely through
consultant firms, to assist in program execution and training
of managerial and technical staff; and



- 16 -
- funding for consultant studies of adaptive research, inter-
mediate technology, rural water supply planning, training and
staff development and socio-economic impact.
B. Detailed Features
Farm and Crop Development
4.02      Project intervention would improve cultivation practices by some
430,000 smallholder families, on an estimated 870,000 ha (1.6 million ha total
cropped area, allowing for intercropping) in upland areas and on some 30,000
ha of cropped area in fadama land. The total incremental production of
rainfed upland crops from both improved and advanced technology in PY5 is
expected to reach 166,750 tons of sorghum (an increase of 21% over PYO),
70,450 tons of millet (+13% over PYO), 56,100 tons of maize (234% over PYO)
117,020 tons of cowpeas (+78% over PYO), 15,400 tons of groundnuts (+11% over
PYO), and 3,100 tons of cotton (+33% over PYO).  Incremental production
expected from the fadama lands would comprise: onions 75,600 tons (36%
increase over PYO), tomatoes 40,000 tons (+38%), other vegetables 28,000 tons
(+67%), rice 14,750 tons (+42%), wheat 1,360 tons (+26%), sorghum 14,550 tons
and maize 10,100 tons. Crop development and production projections are shown
in Annex 1, Tables 1-6.
4.03      Basic Service Package.  This is a relatively simple production
package, applicable to existing traditional farming systems. It is intended
for wide coverage. Based on past experience in other states under similar
conditions, an estimated 70% of the farmers would adopt partly or wholly
improved and advanced crop production packages. The main immediate benefits
would result from improved attention to timeliness of operations such as
planting and weeding, optimum and uniform plant populations and modest use
of fertilizer, insecticides and improved seeds. Local research results and
the experience of the Funtua ADP, which adjoins the southwestern part of
Kano, indicate that appreciable yield responses can be obtained from maize,
sorghum 1/, millet, cowpeas, groundnuts and cotton, which are the dominant
crops in the area. Fadama areas possess significant potential for yield
improvement of vegetables and other crops through improvement in agronomic
and water management techniques. Details of inputs and estimated yields
under rainfed and fadama cultivation are in Annex 1.
4.04      The success of the BSP would largely depend upon the efficient
operation of a farm input distribution network comprising 138 Farm Service
Centers (FSCs) and an efficient extension service. The establishment of
FSCs would bring farmers within a radius of 10 km of a supply point, a
level of service that has proved adequate in the ongoing agricultural
1/   Initial palatability problems have been overcome in the case of
Short Kaura.



- 17 -
development projects in Northern Nigeria. The average extension-farmer
ratio is now 1:4,000 and under the project, it would be improved to 1:660.
Participating farmers, selected by the extension staff in consultation with
the LGCs, would be contacted and advised by the field Agricultural Instruc-
tor (AI) on a regular basis either at fortnightly or monthly intervals.
Farmers would be contacted either as groups or individuals on four days of
the week. The remaining day would be used for training or office work. The
exact method of extension and the field worker/farmer ratio must be viewed
with considerable flexibility until the demands and needs of the farmers are
properly evaluated. As profitable growing of crops like cowpeas, ground-
nuts, cotton and vegetables would require specialized pest control, the
extension service would include staff specially trained in pest management.
4.05      Advanced Service Package.  The program would supplement BSP
and would be designed for groups and individual farmers displaying the
management aptitude to handle more sophisticated techniques and cropping
systems incorporating pest management, higher use of fertilizers, chemical
weed control, hybrid maize, animal power and mechanization, and the integra-
tion of livestock with arable farming. In the fadama areas, improved flood
control and low-cost pumping schemes would be established as part of the ASP
program.
4.06      Farm Input Supplies.  Through the wholesale company, KASCO (paras
7.12 to 7.19), and its retail outlets at FSCs and cooperatives, the project
would supply a range of inputs that would reach in Year 5 about 230,500 tons
of fertilizers, 1,120 tons of improved certified seeds and 594 tons of
various plant protection chemicals. The inputs would be sold primarily for
cash and in some cases on deferred payment (para 7.20).
4.07      The project would provide advice on farm planning and mechanization
together with training in preventive maintenance. The FSC would stock and
sell equipment and fast-moving spare parts while the zonal workshop would, to
a limited extent, take up repairs of tractors, pumps, and plant protection
equipment. The FSC would also stock and sell storage bins, hand pumps, and
other agricultural equipment.
4.08      Applied Research.  All applied research would aim at integrating
new technology into farming systems acceptable to the local community.
Applied research trials would be carried out in the twelve state farms run
by MANR and on farmers' land. These state farms are located in all four
zones. Trials on farmers' lands would be carried out through the use of
the farmer's own labor and capital resources. The required farm inputs
(fertilizers, seeds and pesticides) for these trials would be provided free
by the project. Applied research priorities would include crops and crop
varieties suitable for the shorter rainy seasons, crop rotation and suitable
cropping mixtures, introduction of animal traction (a sector in which
Nigeria is lagging behind other West African countries), introduction of new
fruit trees and varieties, improved irrigation systems in the fadama areas,
improved cultivation techniques for soil, and water conservation in the wet
season fadama lands.



- 18 -
4.09      An essential feature of the applied research approach would be
assessment of the impact of innovations not only on yields but also on
socio-economic factors and farmers attitude as well. A central research
coordination unit (CRCU) would be established at headquarters in Kano,
supervised by the Chief Technical Officer. The Evaluation Section would be
fully involved in monitoring farming activities and would liaise with
Applied Research in the preparation of annual research programs.
4.10      Seeds and planting material.  Seed production would be concen-
trated at Kadawa farm and with surrounding farmers. The foundation seed
would be obtained from the National Seed Service Center in Zaria. The
project would implement a seed production plan so that farmers would even-
tually replace annually 25% of their requirements with new seeds. The
long-term objective would be the regular provision of improved seed by KASCO
that would allow for a minimum replacement of 25% per annum. KNAPMU would
assist in importing disease-free stocks of seeds, expecially potatoes, for
further multiplication.
Forestry Development
4.11      Demand for land for cultivation, expansion of towns and industry,
and the insatiable need for firewood have led to widespread encroachment on
Kano State-s 1,150 km2 of forest reserves.  The 1973-74 Sahelian drought
alerted Government to the rapid degradation in the north and FGN and KNSG have
recently embarked on an anti-desertification program. Even in the southern
part of the state, population pressure and the expansion of grazing and
cultivation that followed tsetse eradication have led to bush degradation and
overgrazing. The project would modernize 15 nurseries with a total capacity
of 4.5 million seedlings annually to be supplied free to farmers for on-farm
planting. About 500 ha of degraded watersheds would be planted with trees
each year. The State forestry staff would carry out the program.
4.12      Soil Conservation and Land Use Planning.  As the state is densely
settled and intensively cultivated, there is considerable pressure on the
land and competition among various land uses. The project would develop
the nucleus for proper long-term land use planning in the state through
its land use planning unit, located in the statewide headquarters. The unit
would collect base data on land use and potential, and advise project manage-
ment and the state government on land problems and development opportunities.
It would identify sites for small-scale conservation projects which would be
undertaken with road construction machinery during the dry season. In the
early stage of the project, the unit would be charged with identifying sites
for project-financed facilities, including farm service centers, road
alignments, and forestry plantations.
Civil Works
4.13      Roads.  The project would construct about 1,440 km of feeder
roads, which are required to provide all-weather access to the project
farm service centers and to link important agricultural areas to the main



- 19 -
road network. 1/ Most of the roads would be constructed in Zones 1, 2 and 3
as these are areas of high agricultural potential and, for the most part,
road construction materials are readily available for construction using
motor scrapers. In Zone 4, however, a limited road program of 105 km would
provide access to the important Hadejia and Gaya fadama areas where small-
scale irrigation would be developed (para. 5.04). In addition, simple
improvements would be made to the seasonal access tracks within the fadama
areas which are subject to annual flooding. The lack of suitable road
building materials in Zone 4 results in expensive haulage costs using tipper
trucks hired from local contractors. Moreover, the natural constraints on
the agricultural potential of this Zone preclude a more extensive road
program. Road construction and maintenance equipment (40% of road construc-
tion costs) would be procured by KNAPMU under ICB. The road program would
be executed by project engineers (recruited through consulting firms) with
petty contractors delivering laterite and constructing simple culverts.
The annual feeder road development program, including justification, standard,
length and location, would be carefully considered with the LGCs. It would be
part of the annual action plan (para. 4.36) to be agreed with the Bank.
4.14      Project road maintenance units would be established in each zone
during the project and would, when necessary, employ the services of local
haulage contractors for regravelling. Regular traffic monitoring would be
carried out on project roads and liaison maintained with MWH with a view to
transferring responsibility for roads carrying over 100 vehicles per day to
the MWH. Under the recent reorganization, MRCD is expected to have long term
responsibility for feeder road maintenance. The project would maintain close
contact with both the MWH and MRCD to coordinate mutually agreed roadwork
activities. Additionally, from the outset, emphasis would be given to
providing, wherever possible, technical assistance to LGs to improve their
road maintenance capacity.
4.15      Rural Water Supplies.   The project-s rural water supply (RWS)
component would aim at making potable water available to some 0.8 - 1.0
million rural dwellers living in communities of less than 1,500 inhabitants.
About 1,000 boreholes would be drilled, distributed among the four zones,
with priority accorded those areas which are most critically deprived of
adequate water facilities. In addition, an estimated 1,000 existing wells
would be rehabilitated and modernized, by deepening the shaft and improving
well-head facilities. To avoid duplication of effort the project would
assist in the preparation of a statewide rural water supply strategy and
annual construction programs, jointly with the MRCD, WRECA, and the HJRBDA,
and in close consultation with LGCs and local village authorities. This
program would form part of the Action Plan to be agreed with the Bank each
1/   The intensity of feeder road construction would be much less than
currently scheduled in on-going ADPs. At Ayangba, the equivalent
of one zone, for example, the rate of construction is about 200 km
per year, compared to 90 km per zone in Kano.



- 20 -
year (para 4.37). Experienced and well-qualified staff specialized in rural
water planning and groundwater development would be included in the KNAPMU
planning team. Water supply maintenance would be organized on a three-tier
system at village, LGA, and zonal level to ensure proper long-run functioning
of the RWS systems (para 5.22 and Working Paper C6).
4.16      Buildings.  The project would construct a headquarters complex,
about 980 houses, including 760 for junior grade staff, 43 stores, 4 mechani-
cal workshops, 128 Farm Service Centres, four zonal offices, and other ancil-
liary buildings as detailed in the project file. A Building Section within
the Engineering Division in each zone would be responsible for the design,
supervision of contracts and subsequent maintenance of all project buildings.
A buildings supervisor, experienced in the organization and management of
large building projects undertaken on contract, would be responsible to the
zonal Chief Engineer 1/ for supervision of local building contractors. Most
buildings would follow either the existing ADP designs or standard MWH designs.
On occasion, architects may be called on to undertake new designs. Support
staff would include a draftsman, administrative officer, storekeeper, clerical
staff, skilled artisans (plumber, electrician, etc.), and labor. Buildings
supervisors would report directly to the zonal Chief Engineers.
Institutional Support
4.17      Details of the institutional development features of the project
relating directly to the project management unit and associated committees
and organisational structure are discussed in Chapter VII.
4.18      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring of project activities
would focus on progress achieved in civil works and training programs, cost
effectiveness, agronomic developments and production, and market, price and
income information. Zonal operations units would set yearly work programs
and targets which would be approved by central management and monitored
quarterly. Cost accountants in each zone would be charged with regular
production of data on plant and vehicle utilization and civil work costs.
An officer in the Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (CMEU) would be
responsible solely for the collection and timely reporting of this informa-
tion. CMEU will receive some technical support from APMEPU and the proposed
FASU to be established in Kaduna (para 2.10).   Basic agronomic data (area
planted, yields, etc.), results from demonstration plots, and market and
price information would be collected by Zonal Monitoring and Evaluation
Units (ZMEU) and analyzed by economists at the CMEU. Data for in-depth
evaluation of technical packages would be collected by small teams in the
ZMEU for analysis by a farm management economist in the CMEU. The CMEU and
ZMEUs would be equipped with micro-computers for recording data on disks,
which would be sent to APMEPU for processing the data. A baseline survey
would be conducted in Year 1 to gather data on the ongoing agronomic and
economic activities as a basis for gauging project impact.
1/   The engineers heading the zonal Engineering Division would usually,
though not necessarily, be the Road Engineers.



- 21 -
4.19      Staff Development and Training.   The project itself would be
a massive training effort in improved agricultural methods, infrastructure
development, communications, and rural administration. It would provide
a sound basis for on-the-job experience and training under competent senior
staff, where the objectives of management and rural development would
be clearly laid out. Experience to date shows conclusively that, under
such conditions, Nigerian staff have performed most effectively and learn
rapidly by experience. This in itself, however, is not sufficient, and the
project would supplement on-the-job experience with formal staff development
programs.
4.20      Management Training.   One of the fundamental problems affecting
the continuity of project activities relates to the scarcity of managerial,
as opposed to technical, background among Nigerian agricultural staff.
The problem must be approached by a combination of formal training and
guided on-the-job experience, and much will depend on the caliber of staff
working on the project. The Chief Training Officer would update an initial
inventory of existing and required staff and their training needs, and would
subsequently work closely with project technical managers to prepare staff
development programs for individual Nigerians in key positions, as well as
for groups of staff at medium and lower levels. Consultants would assist in
preparation and execution of practical management programs and would review
annual progress. Project staff also would be enrolled in courses at the
Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI) (Loan 1719-UNI),
currently being established at Ilorin in Kwara State. Overseas courses in
management fields, as in technical subjects, would be considered where no
comparable Nigerian course existed, but should be limited to relatively short
courses with immediate practical relevance to the staff members responsibili-
ties.
4.21      Technical Training.   Specialized training courses would be
established for all levels of staff in the agronomic and other relevant
technical needs of the project. Existing and new field staff would be given
an intensive in-service training program by a modified T&V system to improve
technical skills and to ensure that the project ideals are understood.
Instruction would be offered at selected locations in the field, making use
of mobile training units. Farmer training would be conducted by mobile
training units on a systematic basis. Courses would be short (usually of
one-day duration) and would be held on farmers- fields or at FSCs. Entry-
level field staff training would receive special emphasis. An additional
800 field overseers (FO) would be required over the life of the project.
These personnel would be recruited and trained at three residential schools,
in courses of 12-months duration, specially designed to prepare field staff
for project activities. The project would also develop training courses for
farm management advisory staff, essential for the more advanced farming
systems introduced under the project. The small number of home economics
field staff would be augmented by expanding the Home Economics Training
School at Kadawa to house more comfortably additional trainees. Housing
would be constructed at each of the existing Farm Institutes to allow wives
of young farmers attending the one-year agricultural course to participate
in a full-time home economics program for a similar period. Short courses
would be developed for agricultural staff, mechanics, bookkeepers, store-
keepers, and salesmen.



- 22 -
4.22      Media Production.   To support the training and the extension
activities a Media Center will be established at Kadawa as part of the Staff
Development and Media Center. The Center will have the capability of designing
and field testing audio and visual materials, training staff in the use and
maintenance of audio-visual equipment and advising zonal units on the
collection of material and preparation of scripts for inclusion in the KNADP
radio program.
4.23      Training Administration.  An active statewide program of staff
development would be undertaken to ensure that the project attracts and
retains skilled and motivated personnel. Staff records would be kept and
continously updated, career structures would be designed for personnel in all
specializations, and opportunities created to enable staff to assume more
responsibility. The Chief Training Officer would also be responsible for
working with State and LG officials in developing adequate training programs
in areas related to project activities, e.g. road and water facility mainte-
nance and administration. The senior training officer attached to APMEPU
would work in close collaboration with project management in developing and
monitoring new training techniques.
4.24      The Kano Agricultural Supply Company (KASCO) is to be established
by KNSG to provide farm supplies to Kano State farmers. KASCO would be
an independent body initiated with state equity, linked to existing coopera-
tive organizations and operated on commercial principles. Distribution of
farm supplies would be through FSCs and, where functioning properly, through
existing primary cooperative societies. Ultimately, KASCO would assist with
storage and marketing of crops when this is essential, to ensure price
stabilization and efficient movement of surplus.
Technical Assistance
4.25      The project would provide about 210 man years of internationally
recruited staff, mainly through consultant firms, to assist in the execution
of the project (para. 7.08-7.11). It would also provide short-term technical
assistance for the preparation of special project-related studies to assist
KNAPMU in examining specialized topics, as on other ADPs. The project would
provide 164 man-months of consultant services to KNSG to assist in specific
areas where local skills are not available or when short-term supplementation
is required. Specifically, the consultants, at an estimated cost of US$11,000
per man-month, would provide:
(a) Staff Development and Management Training. Assistance in establish-
ing KNAPMU staff development and management training programs (six
man-months). The consultants would assist the senior staff develop-
ment and training specialist to develop such a program in the first
two years of the project and would thereafter visit the project on a
yearly basis (three man-months) to assess and evaluate the progress
of staff training and development. Findings would be reported to
KNSG and the Bank;



- 23 -
(b) Adaptive Research. The project-s research effort would at times
require assistance for short periods from specialists in particular
aspects of innovative on-farm technology. Among the areas where
this need is expected would be: on-farm and other low-level crop
storage, crop processing, mixed cropping systems, animal traction
and small-scale mechanization (six man-months);
(c) Water Supply. Specialized skills would be required in the hydro-
geological field to assist in planning the water supply component,
in particular in the interpretation of side-looking radar imagery
(24 man-months) and for training of village maintenance personnel
(32 man-months);
(d) Intermediate Technology. At present, technology used in fadama
farming (e.g., the shadoof) is unduly labor-intensive and ineffi-
cient. Alternative, more efficient solutions exist at low to
intermediate levels of technology, ranging from more efficient typesf
of human- or animal-powered water lifting devices (as developed in
parts of South Asia) to simple, low-maintenance diesel pumps that
might be suitable for individual cooperative operations. To assist
in introducing and adapting these and other similar technological
innovations to the area, 12 man-months of consultancies have
been provided; 8 man-months also have been provided for detailed
planning in the Fadama areas.
(e) Marketing. Eighteen man-months of marketing services to review the
marketing procedures within the state and the need for adopting more
appropriate procedures, and to assess the amount of produce being
marketed in and outside the state;
(f) Socio-economic Evaluation. Twenty man-months for extra evaluation
studies on the overall economic effects of the project on various
strata of farms, including changes in income distribution;
(g) Land Use Planning. Fifteen man-months have been provided for
specialized services including remote sensing and air photography
interpretation, surveys, and cartographic services; and
(h) Other Studies. Twenty man-months of special studies on post-project
organization, maintenance of feeder roads and rural water supply.
KNAPMU would be responsible for preparing detailed terms of reference for
review by the Bank prior to the engagement of any consultants, who would be
employed on conditions and terms satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Cost Estimates
4.26      Project costs during the five-year development period 1981-85,
are estimated at N265.2 million (US$482.2 million). N119.2 million
(US$216.8 million) or 45% would be foreign exchange costs, and N146.0
million (US$265.4) local costs, of which N15.4 million (US$28.0 million)
would be taxes.



- 24 -
4.27      Project base costs are calculated using prices obtained during
appraisal and updated to levels expected to prevail in January 1981. Costs
include physical contingencies equal to 5% of base costs, except on civil
works which have 10%, and 25% for borehole drilling. Price contingencies are
calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies and are compounded
annually using the following annual rates: on local salaries and allowances,
10%, on all other local costs, 15%; and on foreign costs, 9% in PYl, 8% in PY2
and 7% thereafter. Total contingencies are equivalent to 26% of total costs
or 34% of base costs. Details of project costs, presented in Annex 2, Table 1,
and Working Paper C10 of the Project File, are summarized in Table 1 below.
4.28      The costs summarized in Table 1 are incremental, covering those
investments and operational costs over and above the present MANR and
MRCD recurrent budget covering comparable areas. This annual current level
of expenditure in the Agricultural Division of MANR for activities that
will be absorbed by the project is approximately N2.7 million. At nego-
tiations, KNSG agreed to transfer these activities and the associated budget
(largely for extension staff) to KNAPMU. For annual farm inputs, the table
includes those annual quantities which are incremental over the preceding
year s estimated consumption. In the case of fertilizer, which is the key
input, FGN agreed during negotiations to make arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank to ensure that the requisite quantities would be made available to
Kano State for the project on time (para 2.12).
D. Proposed Financing
4.29      Of the total project cost of N265.2 million (US$482.2 million)
the Bank would finance N78.1 million (US$142 million) at the lending rate
of interest current at the time of loan approval and for a period of 20
years including a five-year grace period. The Bank loan would represent 30%
of project costs or 32% of costs net of taxes, and would be approximately
66% of the foreign exchange component. FGN's contribution (N78.8 million)
would consist of 25% of project costs exclusive of input costs (N48.0
million), plus the fertilizer subsidy (N30.8 million) equivalent to 48%
of the farmgate price. KNSG would contribute N91.9 million plus N3.5
million as equity contributions to KASCO and the cooperatives (not part of
project costs). Project farmers would contribute N16.4 million in the
form of payment for inputs. Annex 2, Tables 2, 3 and 4 summarize the project
financing plan.



- 25 -
Table 1: Summary of Project Cost
Percentage
of
Base   Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Cost   Cost
---(N Million)------   ----(US$ Million)---
Management                         7.0      5.2      12.2    12.7    9.5    22.2          6       5
Staff Training                     8.8      5.6      14.4    16.0   10.2    26.2          7      5
Monitoring and Evaluation          3.2      1.0       4.2      5.8    1.8       7.6       2       2
Land Use Planning                  0.7      0.6       1.3      1.3    1.1       2.4       1      -
Extension                         26.3    10.1       36.4    47.8   18.4    66.2         19     14
Seed Multiplication                1.8      0.4       2.2      3.3    0.7      4.0        1      1
Applied Research                   1.3      0.6       1.9      2.4    1.1       3.5       1      1
Irrigation                         1.5      1.2       2.7      2.7    2.2      4.9        1      1
Forestry                           2.2      1.5       3.7      4.0    2.7       6.7       2      1
Engineering Services               3.4      2.1       5.5      6.2    3.8    10.0         3      2
Road Construction                 16.6    13.0       29.6    30.2   23.6    53.8         15     11
Mechanical Workshops               5.7      4.4      10.1    10.4    8.0    18.4          5      4
Rural Water Supply                 6.3      7.0      13.3    11.5   12.7    24.2          7      5
Farm Service Company (KASCO):
Investment Operating            10.8     4.1       14.9    19.6    7.5    27.1         8       6
Farm Inputs (incremental)       16.3    35.8       52.1    29.6   65.1    94.7        27      20
Marketing Development            0.9      0.7       1.6      1.6    1.3      2.9       1       -
Cooperative Development          2.3      0.5       2.8      4.1    1.0      5.1       1       1
Less Pre-project Expenditure  (13.3)    -           (13.3)  (24.2)   -       (24.2)    (7)    (5)
TOTAL BASE COST                  101.8    93.8    195.6  .185.0  170.7   355.7    100           74
Physical Contingencies             6.4      5.8      12.2    11.7   10.5    22.2         6       5
Price Contingencies               37.8    19.6       57.4    68.7   35.6   104.3        29      22
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST  146.0   119.2    265.2   265.4  216.8   482.2                    100



- 26 -
Table 2: Summary Financing Plan
(N million)
Total      IBRD      FGN 1/  Farmers       KNSG
Civil Works                    40.8        20.4     10.2       -          10.2
Plant, Vehicles, Equipment   50.6          31.8     12.7       -           6.1
Borehole Drilling               6.6         4.6      1.6       -           0.4
Salaries, International        13.1        13.1      -         -           -
Consultants and Overseas
Training                      2.1         2.1      -         -           -
Salaries, Local                52.1         -       16.7       -          35.4
Operating Costs and General
Services                    27.1         -         6.8       -          20.3
Fertilizers-incremental        64.1         -       30.8       7.7        25.6
Incremental Chemicals and
Farm Implements               8.7         6.1      -         8.7        (6.1)
Total                 265.1        78.1      78.8      16.4       91.9
100%        30%       30%         6%         34%
1/  25% of project costs excluding farm inputs, plus fertilizer subsidy.
4.30      Under the project, annual consumption of fertilizer would rise
from about 46,900 tons in the pre-project year to about 230,500 tons in
Year 5. Total consumption throughout the project period would be about
725,800 tons (Annex 3), of which about 491,300 tons would be additional to
pre-project consumption levels.  Under current subsidy practices, FGN sub-
sidizes 50% of the cost delivered to Kano, the farmer pays a fixed price
(approximately equal to about 17% of the cost to Kano) and KNSG pays the
remaining costs, including all costs of distribution within the State.
Continuing current subsidy practices, the total cost to FGN and KNSG of
fertilizer subsidies over the project period would be N227.6 million. The
Bank would not finance the foreign cost of incremental fertilizer requirements,
as the Government is able to finance the unduly heavy subsidies to the rural
sector from its oil revenues. A comprehensive financing plan including these
amounts is given in Annex 2, Table 2.
4.31      The Bank loan of US$142.0 million would be made to the Federal
Government, who would onlend on the same terms and conditions to KNSG under a
subsidiary loan agreement drawn up between FGN and KNSG. The signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of effectiveness. As many
ongoing projects are suffering from inadequate and untimely inflows of funds
from Government sources, FGN and KNSG agreed during negotiations to a
flow of funds mechanism to address this problem. KNAPMU would submit at
least four months prior to each fiscal year the project's proposed annual



- 27 -
budget as approved by the KNARDC to FMA and the Bank. KNAPMU would be
authorized to establish overdraft facilities equivalent to three-months
expenditure, N5 million and the overdraft would be guaranteed by KNSG. (A
condition of effectiveness requires KNSG to provide evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that the guaranteed overdraft facilities had been established with
a commercial bank.) KNSG and FGN would each pay their contribution into the
project's bank account quarterly and in advance in accordance with the
approved annual budget. It was agreed at negotiations that, in the event of
KNSG's being delinquent in paying its contribution to project costs, FGN
would pay the State-s contribution directly from KNSG-s statutory allocation
into the project's bank account. This would be specified in the subsidiary
loan agreement between FGN and KNSG. A condition of effectiveness would be
that FGN and KNSG had each made payments of N3 million to the project s
bank acccount. Bank reimbursement would be made directly to KNAPMU-s
commercial bank account.
E. Procurement
4.32      Chemicals and agricultural implements valued at N18.6 million
(US$33.8 million), of which N8.7 million (US$15.8 million) is incremen-
tal, vehicles, road construction equipment, tractors and other equipment
and spare parts valued at N50.6 million (US$92.0 million), and civil
works including buildings, boreholes, and materials for road and dam con-
struction valued at N46.4 million (US$84.4 million) would be procured
through international competitive bidding. Services of consultants and
internationally recruited staff, and provision of overseas training, valued
at N16.7 million (US$30.4 million) would be obtained in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for civil works valued at
less than US$2 million and other contracts for less than US$200,000 would
be awarded following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank. For contracts of less than US$60,000 direct competitive shopping
would be employed. Items for procurement would be bulked to permit optimum
use of competitive bidding. Domestically manufactured goods would be
allowed a 15% preference or the applicable import duty, whichever may be
lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign manufacturers in procure-
ment under ICB. Fertilizer valued at N82.6 million (US$150.2 million)
would be procured by NFMC and would not be reimbursable under the loan.
F. Disbursements
4.33      The Bank loan would be disbursed during from 1981 to 1986 as
follows:
Category I    50% of the cost of buildings (US$33.3 million);
Category II   100% of the foreign expenditures for directly
imported goods for vehicles, tractors, heavy plant,
generators, road-equipment, and spare parts, or 85%
if locally procured (US$52.0 million);



- 28 -
Category III   100% of the cost of salaries and allowances of
internationally recruited staff and cost of consul-
tant services, studies and overseas training (US$25.0
million);
Category IV    100% of the foreign costs or 70% of the total costs
of expenditures on contracted borehole drilling for
rural water supply, (US$7.5 million);
Category V      100% of the foreign expenditure on directly imported
incremental chemicals and other farm inputs, excluding
fertilizers, or 70% if locally procured, (US$10.0
million);
Category VI    An unallocated amount of US$14.2 million.
All expenditures would be fully documented and disbursements for all cate-
gories would be made only against authorized contracts. Provision has been
made for up to US$400,000 of retroactive financing for key internationally-
recruited staff, to begin work after negotiations to assist in project
start-up activities. A schedule of Bank loan disbursements is given
in Annex 2, Table 5.
G. Accounts and Audits
4.34      KNAPMU and KASCO would keep financial records in accordance with
sound accounting practices to reflect their operations and financial posi-
tions and would have these audited by independent external auditors accept-
able to the Bank. The audited accounts and the auditors' reports, including
statements as to whether Bank funds had been used for their intended purpose,
would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal
year.
H.   Programming and Budgeting
4.35      Annual budgets would be prepared by KNAPMU based on appraisal
estimates amended, where necessary, to reflect changes in costs and project
development policies. These would be submitted to KNARDEC and the project
would operate on the basis of these statements. KNAPMU would prepare for
prompt submission to the Bank, quarterly and annual progress reports in-
cluding summaries of expenditures and use of funds. On the basis of the
approved annual budgets, KNSG would make budgetary allocations and therefore
would make available to KNAPMU all necessary funds quarterly and in advance.
It was agreed at negotiations that FGN would pay KNSG's share of costs
directly from KNSG's statutory allocation in the event that KNSG were
delinquent in its payments. Separate bank accounts for KNAPMU and KASCO



- 29 -
would be opened with commercial banks and FGN and KNSG would each make initial
deposits of N3 million for KNAPMU and, KNSG, N3.0 million for KASCO (as
payment of cash equity). Opening of the two bank accounts and the respective
initial deposits would be conditions of effectiveness.
4.36      At negotiations KNSG confirmed that its share of project costs was
included in the Fourth Development Plan currently under preparation. It also
agreed to prepare and submit to the Bank by September 30 of each year an
Action Plan detailing the specific investments and project activities proposed
for execution during the following fiscal year. The plan would also specify
arrangements for training and for road and water supply maintenance, including
where appropriate, supplementary funding arrangements from KNSG and LGCs
(e.g., for road maintenance). Submission to the Bank for approval of the
first Action Plan for the year 1981 would be a condition of effectiveness.
The yearly plans should include a budget for the following year, the annual
report for KNAPMUTs previous year s operations and a report on its operations
and finances. The Action Plan and the audited financial statements for the
previous year would be reviewed by KNSG and the Bank at an implementation
review to be held in October of each year. The implementation review and
agreed Action Plan would form the basis for Bank supervision of the project.
Supervision would also be supported by the project-s management information
system and by ongoing monitoring and evaluation data collected by the FASU and
APMEPU.
V. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
A. Crop Development
5.01      Agronomic recommendations and yield projections are based on
relevant research experience in FADP and other projects and observed perfor-
mance under field conditions. Development proposals for the improved crops
have additionally taken account of the ecological conditions in the four zones
of the State, and socio-economic constraints, including family finances and
labor availability. The technology proposed is simple and relatively inexpen-
sive. In brief, substantial increases in the present very low yields of grain
crops, groundnuts and cotton in the upland areas, and of irrigated vegetables
and wheat, rainy season rice and sorghum and maize in the fringe fadama lands,
would involve improved cultivation practices. These include the use of
fertilizers on time and in adequate quantities, improved planting material
(cleaned, dressed and certified seed), pest and disease control, appropriate
practices such as timely planting, spacing and crop mixing, timely weeding and
sound post harvest practices. Detailed recommendations are shown for rainfed
upland crop husbandry and production are shown in Annex 1, table 1 and for
fadama crops in Annex 1, table 4. Certified seed would be made available to
participating farmers with the aim of renewing one fourth of the farmer's
requirements every fifth year for sorghum, millet, cowpeas, maize, groundnuts
and wheat, and the total quantity of vegetable seed requirements every fifth
year. The National Cotton Board would continue to provide all cotton seed.



- 30 -
The crop varietal recommendations must be regarded as tentative. As part of
its adaptive research program KNAPMU would carry out trials in the early years
of the project to determine suitable varieties for different areas.
5.02      More sophisticated technology would be introduced for farmers
participating in the advanced program. This would include higher fertilizer
levels and improved seed, appropriate planting methods and increased number
of sprayings for pest control. Oxen and tractor implements would be intro-
duced to help in row planting. Weeding of crops sown in rows would be
facilitated and would permit use of manual weeders early in the season thereby
reducing labor peaks on a pilot but fairly large basis. The project would
also attempt to integrate to a fairly large degree animal rearing with arable
farming. With increased production, there would be substantial quantities of
crop residues which could be profitably converted into meat by smallscale
fattening units.
5.03      Using the figures for yield increases, and essential recommended
farm inputs, shown in Annex 1, Table 1, it is estimated that the increase in
yield brought about by the BSP and ASP packages'would raise average farmers'
gross incomes to levels which should make the enterprise economically
attractive. For details on farm budgets, see Chapter VIII, Section A and
Annex 4, table 2. Projected increases in the production of individual crops
at full development (PY5) are shown in Annex 1, table 3 for upland rainfed
crop production. For example, in zones 1 and 3, under improved practices
(BSP), sorghum yields would rise from 550 kg/ha to 850 kg/ha, millet 350 to
600, maize 450 to 1,200, cowpeas 120 to 500, groundnuts 350 to 800, and
cotton 190 to 350.
5.04      Fadama Development.  Traditional irrigation is currently practiced
on an estimated 60,000 ha "fadama" land. Dry season vegetables are grown by
tapping water from reservoirs, streams and shallow water tables by means of
a hand operated water lifting device known as a "shadoof". Rice is grown on
the flood plains of the Hadeija-Jama'are River under semi-controlled flooding.
5.05      The project would improve fadama crop production by providing
fertilizers, better seed and pesticides, and by promoting timely planting
and appropriate planting techniques. But the greatest emphasis would be
laid on making optimal use of the fadama's scarce dry season water resources.
Conditions under which this water is found vary from zone to zone and there-
fore call for a flexible approach and local farmer trials to test appropriate
small-scale irrigation equipment, techniques, and practices. The proposed
fadama development component, covering 27,400 ha in total, and the crops to
be grown are given in Annex 1, Table 4. The proposed technology would be
relatively inexpensive and easy to implement, and would involve three main
activities.
5.06      Fadama intensification would aim at making more efficient use of
run-off through bunding and ridging, and of residual moisture or the capil-
lary fringe of shallow groundwater tables. A second crop could thus be grown
during the dry season, if timely planting is observed at the tail end of the
rains. An estimated 14,700 ha would thus be developed.



- 31 -
5.07      Pump irrigation would provide for the replacement of the shadoof by
modern low lift manual or motorized water lifting devices. Efficient hand
pumps would be introduced which would allow individual farmers to irrigate
from 0.5-0.8 ha, where currently "shadoof" irrigated plots would rarely exceed
0.1-0.2 ha. As a next step, 3-4" diesel driven pumps with a capacity of up to
75 m3 per hour would be procured to irrigate from 3 to 4 ha each. Groups of
four to six farmers would be encouraged to purchase one such unit permitting
them individually to expand their plots to at least 0.5 ha. The total thus
irrigated would reach 6,800 ha.
5.08      Improved Flood Irrigation would be undertaken on selected parts
of the major river flood plains, to increase the production of traditionally
grown rice. Here, land preparation currently consists of a rudimentary
system of bunds and ridges and brushwood diversion structures. Rice, mainly
Glaberrina varieties, is thus inadequately protected against prevailing
floods and consequently, is low yielding, and land is used inefficiently.
The project would assist groups of farmers with technical support to select
and improve the layout of riverine areas of up to 20 ha for the production
of paddy under higher standards of water conttol. Improvement would consist
of the construction of more permanent protective bunds at locations which
would be less exposed to floods. The area thus isolated would be divided by
small bunds into plots of 0.5 to 1.0 ha, depending on the configuration of
the land, and peripheral supply ditches with check structures would be
provided where appropriate. Provision would also be made for the removal of
excess water by means of shallow drains and checks leading to a main drain
and drainage outlet. The aim would be to allow two crops to be grown per
year on an estimated 5,900 ha: high yielding rice during the floods,
followed by dry season maize, sorghum or cowpeas, making use of residual
moisture.
5.09      Planning assistance would be provided free of charge to interested
farmers. Surveys would be undertaken in close association with the land use
planning unit to locate fadama lands best suited for the development envisaged.
Particular attention would be given to water balances of local catchments to
make most efficient use of available water, both at the start and tail end of
the rains and during the dry season. Survey teams would assist farmers in
adapting the layout of the "shadoof" irrigated gardens to the new water yield
supplied by modern water lifting devices. The fadama development component
would be supported by a program of trials conducted on farmers' field to test
the proposed new technology, techniques, and practices.
5.10      As a rule, farmers would themselves undertake the construction of
ditches and bunds for land preparation, but, where needed, would be expected
to hire labor paid from their own resources or from loans, which would be
obtainable from the Kano Cooperative Bank channelled through the cooperative
system. The average cost of land improvement would vary from an estimated
250 N/ha (US$454) for pumped irrigation (by motor pumps) to 400 N/ha (US$727)
for improved flood irrigation. Motor pumps would be available at N2,500-3,000
(US$4,545-5,454) each from KASCO, which would also stock diesel fuel and basic
spare parts at FSC outlets. The project would provide training through its
extension services to farmers in pump operation and maintenance.



- 32 -
B. Forestry Development
5.11      The project would upgrade and rehabilitate 15 state-owned irrigated
nurseries, each capable of producing 300,000 to 500,000 seedlings annually for
both plantations and distribution to farmers and villagers. Tree-planting
would be undertaken in five selected degraded watersheds for five years, on
about 500 ha each year. The Kano State Forestry Division staff would be
responsible for the nursery production of tree seedlings and their distribu-
tion, and for the planting, protection and maintenance of trees planted on
rehabilitated degraded land. The local government forestry staff, where
available, would be responsible under the guidance of the State forestry staff,
for the extension work required in popularising tree planting by individual
farmers and villagers. An expert in degraded land rehabilitation would work
with the project's land use planning unit to guide and advise the State
Forestry Division, which would carry out the program on the 2,500 ha area
selected. The project would also provide funds for research into the introduc-
tion of more efficient wood-burning stoves and bio-gas production on selected
farms. Details are given in the Project File, Working Paper C7.
C. Feeder Roads
5.12      The tentative work program for the construction of 1,440 kms of
feeder roads by KNAPMU mechanized units is shown below. Units using motor
scrapers would operate in Zones 1, 2 and 3 where laterite haulage distances
are short. In Zone 4, where practically no suitable gravel deposits are
available, hired tipper trucks would transport selected surfacing material
to the construction site.
Table 3: Feeder Road Program
----------   Kilometers-----------
ZONE     PYI      PY2     PY3      PY4     PY5      TOTAL
1        60     120      105      85       75      445
2        60      120     105       85      75       445
3        60      120     105       85      75       445
4        10       20      25       25      25       105
State  190     380      340      280     250    1,440
5.13      Based on the experience of ongoing ADPs, the feeder roads would be
built to withstand axle loads of 10 tons and a traffic density of up to 100
vehicles per day (vpd). KNSG has agreed to transfer the responsibility for
maintaining roads carrying over 100 vpd to the state MWH. In most areas, the
road section would incorporate a 7.3 m carriageway with 3% falls to "v" shaped



- 33 -
side drains. However, in the less populous areas of the state, a narrower
5m carriageway would be adopted. The running course would be surfaced with
gravel to a compacted depth of 15 cm. In fadama areas subject to seasonal
flooding, simple grading and compaction would be carried out to improve dry
season access. Watershed alignment would be adopted, wherever possible, to
minimize drainage and subsequent maintenance requirements. Drainage struc-
tures would be simple and inexpensive.
5.14      A team of consultants would assist in managing the execution of the
feeder road program and would train road staff. Road construction would be
carried out directly by KNAPMU with zonal construction units of the engineer-
ing division, under the control of a road engineer experienced in feeder
roadworks and responsible directly to the zonal management. Technical guidance
would be available from the Chief Engineer who would also be responsible for
coordinating the statewide road program. Mechanical services would be provided
by zonal workshops under the control of an experienced mechanical engineer.
The Mechanical Engineer at KNAPMU would advise on workshop design and equip-
ment and establish a unified mechanical stores system throughout the zones.
He would also arrange a central mechanical spares procurement organization
from both local and overseas sources.
5.15      The project would maintain close contact with both MWH, MRCD, and
MLG on mutually agreed roadwork activities to ensure that feeder road main-
tenance is properly funded and coordinated. Both periodic and routine main-
tenance units would be established in each zone during the project and would,
where necessary, employ the services of local haulage contractors for re-
gravelling.
D. Rural Water Supplies
5.16      Kano State's RWS strategy would be a shared responsibility of
WRECA, MRCD, HJRBDA and the project (para. 3.07). It would consist of a
balanced statewide program of medium (8") and small size (4" to 6") boreholes
and shallow wells, equipped with motorized or hand pumps, storage tanks, and
standpipe reticulation systems. The program would take into account the size
of communities to be served, user requirements, availability of water re-
sources, relative cost-effectiveness of alternative systems and orders of
priority. An implementation schedule would be worked out annually to estab-
lish clearly individual responsibilities of the agencies involved. The
project would concentrate mainly on borehole drilling and well rehabilitation
as indicated below. These figures represent an approximate order of magnitude
only, and would be subject to amendment during implementation, without chang-
ing the total capital funds provided.
5.17      Boreholes.  The major thrust of the water supply program would
be the drilling of some 1,000 boreholes distributed over the four zones.
Siting would be undertaken, well in advance of mobilization of drilling
operations, by a team of rural water supply specialists and hydrogeologists.
In the hard rock areas of the two western zones, boreholes would be sited



- 34 -
under a specialized contract making use of existing Side-Looking Airborne
Radar (SLAR) imagery, while in the alluvial formations electric resistivity
depth probing would be applied where justifiable. The use of SLAR has
proven effective in spotting the major joints and lineaments in the hard
rock formations and has, in the process, increased the success rate in
siting boreholes of satisfactory yield (1.0-2.Om3/hr), from the current
60% to over 90%.
5.18      Borehole drilling would be undertaken with modern versatile rigs,
capable of rapid drilling using down-the-hole percussion in the hard rocks of
the Basement Complex, and compressed air/rotary drilling techniques in the
sedimentary rocks and river alluvium or aeolian deposits of the eastern zones.
5.19      As a rule 4" to 6" boreholes would be drilled to a maximum depth
of 50 m. Casing would be provided over the length of the borehole in the
sedimentary formations and until solid bedrock is reached in the hard rocks.
All boreholes would be equipped with hand pumps of proven sturdiness and
suitability.
5.20      Trial programs in the area indicate that, if the modern equipment
and techniques described above are applied on a sufficiently large scale and
with maximum efficiency, unit costs can be substantially reduced from the
rates currently quoted by local contractors. Drilling therefore would
be undertaken by qualified firms contracted under ICB, although if bids
received prove too high, other procurement arrangements acceptable to the
Bank would be made.
5.21      Wells.  An estimated 1,000 wells would be rehabilitated and modern-
ized. This would involve deepening the shaft to 4-5 m below dry season water
tables, making use of motorized sludge pumps to reach well yields of up to
2m3/hr. Also, the facilities around the well-head (including stock watering
provisions) would be improved. The wells would be sealed off with reinforced
concrete lids to reduce pollution and fitted with one or two hand pumps. Four
fully-qualified and well-equipped well rehabilitation units would be estab-
lished (one for each zone) to train LGC teams in well maintenance and rehabil-
itation. Each unit would be capable of rehabilitating 50 wells per year in
the process.
5.22      Maintenance.  Drilling contractors, pump suppliers and project staff
would be expected to organize and supervise maintenance during an initial rea-
sonable period following construction. They would also train local staff, in
support of the maintenance programs which would be organized at the village,
LGA, and Zonal levels to ensure the proper long-run functioning of these
facilities.



- 35 -
VI. DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Demand
6.01      Nigeria is a net importer of food, and the 1979 Nigerian Agricul-
tural Sector Review (Report 2181-UNI), in common with other serious studies,
projects the gap to continue widening. In the absence of fundamental policy
change, the report projects a deficit of 11 million tons of cereal equivalent
per annum by 1990, representing an import bill of N1.3 billion at 1978
prices. In aggregate, therefore, there should be no lack of demand for
domestically produced foodstuff. In individual sectors, however, problems
may be created by competition from imports brought into Nigeria at an exchange
rate which is sustained only by the oil sector and which does not correspond
to cost structures in the other productive sectors of the economy.
6.02      Agro-ecologically, Kano State is mainly suited for food grain
production, but is prone to severe drought cohditions in some areas. Produc-
tion of food grains in 1979-80 was estimated at 1.54 million tons, compared
to an annual consumption of 1.59 million tons.l/ Thus, the state is almost
self-sufficient in food grains at present. These estimates are highly specula-
tive, as the figures of area, productivity and population are subject to wide
margins of error. With the full realization of production targets, by PY5
the state will have a production of around 2 million tons of food grains, an
increase which would just suffice for the increased population during the
project period. In the years of serious drought, however, there could be a
deficit in food grains production, causing distress particularly in the Sudan
Savanna areas of Zones 2 and 4 of the project.
B. Marketing
6.03      With small landholdings and large family size, most farmers have
very little marketable surplus to offer. As a result of the perceived
climatic risks to farming, many families hold back their marketable surplus
until the prospects for the new crop are well established. As this surplus
may not be sold at a single time in one market, this has led to the need for
bulking and assembly through a large number of petty traders operating in
the villages and in more than 300 local weekly markets. According to a
study made in 1975,2/ eight different types of intermediaries are involved
1/   "Food situation in Nigeria - An economic analysis of sorghum."  Insti-
tute of Agricultural Research, 1978. SAMARU - Misc. Paper 80. Calcu-
lated on the basis of 3.7 kg per capita per week, for a population of
8.3 million.
2/   Hays, H.M. "The Marketing and Storage of Food Grains in Northern
Nigeria," 1975.



- 36 -
in moving the produce from the villages to the ultimate consumers, with
markups approaching more than 30% of the final price to the consumer. The
present marketing system appears to be broadly competitive and non-exploita-
tive, and to work satisfactorily. With improved roads and transport, farmers
are not expected to meet any serious marketing problems; however, increased
production may depress food crop prices and thus act as an incentive to
produce other cash crops such as cotton and groundnuts. Existing cooperative
institutions at the village and LG level should take up marketing of agricul-
tural produce, and could be increasingly engaged as licensed buying agents
(LBAs) by the groundnut, cotton and grains boards. The project would assist
them in this task by financing the construction of 13,000 tons of storage for
produce and inputs, training and initially financing the salaries of primary
society secretaries and union managers, and providing technical assistance
through the Chief Marketing Officer. Further advice and assistance would be
provided through KASCO. To ensure that the cooperatives have adequate working
capital to engage in marketing operations, KNSG agreed at negotiations to
participate in the share capital of the primary societies and unions up to a
total of N500,000. Fadama vegetable growers would be organized to market
their produce through cooperatives.
6.04      The project would strengthen marketing in other ways.  To overcome
a lack of reliable market information, the project would finance studies on
production and supply of various agricultural commodities, considering mar-
ket arrivals and directional movements, prices in producing and consuming
centers, transport and handling problems, scrap, and weights and measures.
It would establish a simple market intelligence system, finance selected
improvements to LGC-operated markets, and promote better on-farm storage by
making available through KASCO improved storage bins on credit terms. Ongoing
sector work, and the preparation of a possible National Agricultural Marketing
Project for Bank intervention, will review market intelligence, the function-
ing of the Boards, and measures necessary to involve the private sector more
fully in produce marketing.
C. Prices
6.05      There is a growing disparity between prices for home-produced food-
grains and the corresponding world market prices. With the high inflation in
Nigeria and the overvalued exchange rate, domestic food prices have increased
rapidly. For example, the average price for domestic wheat at harvest in 1979
was about N510 (US$923) per ton with fluctuations within the same year from
N352 to N610 per ton. By contrast the cost of imported wheat, c.i.f. Kano, is
only N288 (US$524) per ton. The prices of groundnuts and cotton in the open
markets within Nigeria, on the other hand, were in the past greatly suppressed
in real terms in favor of foodgrains, making cultivation of these cash crops
less attractive. Groundnut prices have recently been raised. The future
market prices of various commodities would depend on Federal Government policy
on imports, and price and market support of the local produce. The prices of
various agricultural commodities used in project financial and economic
analysis are given in Table 4 below.



- 37 -
Table 4: Financial and Economic Prices (N/ton)
(Constant 1981 Prices)
Financial           Economic
Commodity                  1979*    1981       1981    1985
Sorghum                      190      320       165      172
Millet                       207      345       176      182
Maize                        240      370       188      193
Cowpeas                     378       575       345     415
Paddy Rice                   319      256       150      170
Groundnuts                   447      460       376      412
Wheat                        288      310       218     222
*    Actual.
VII. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
A. Project Coordination and Management
7.01       The project embraces a wide range of activities which are now
nominally the operational responsibility of different ministries, agencies,
and institutions (paras 3.20-3.27). Kano State is relatively fortunate in
having a long tradition of reasonably effective state and local government
institutions. The project has been designed, however, to introduce effective
management and coordination of rural development activities where they are now
lacking, and to strengthen the technical base needed for project execution and
post-project development.
7.02      As the Kano Agricultural Development Project is to be the basis for
long-term agricultural and rural development in Kano State, a state committee
would be established to coordinate and define rural development policy and
oversee project execution. This body, the Kano State Agricultural and Rural
Development Executive Committee (KNARDEC) would consist of the Governor or his
nominee (Chairman), representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Rural
and Community Development, Trade, Industry and Cooperatives,and Local Govern-
ment, the Secretary to the State Government, the Advisor to the Governor on
Agriculture and Rural Development, the Director of the Budget, the Program
Manager, the Managing Director of the Kano Agricultural Supply Company, the
General Manager of the Hadejia-Jama'are River Basin Development Authority
(HJRBDA), two chairmen of Zonal Development Committees (para 7.05) chosen by
rotation, and a representative of FMA. This committee would be responsible
for reviewing and agreeing to the annual implementation program and budget to
be sent to the Governor and the Kano State House of Assembly for appropriation
of funds; coordination of program activities with other State and Federal
ministries and with other agencies and institutions, including WRECA, and the
HJRBDA; formulation and approval of training policies; appointment of senior



- 38 -
staff; and approval of contracts over N60,000.1/ The establishment of
KNARDEC would be a condition of effectiveness.
7.03      KNARDEC would have two major technical subcommittees.  The Marketing
Liaison Committee would be chaired by the Chief Marketing Officer. It would
monitor, and make recommendations concerning marketing of agricultural output
and the input supply performance of KASCO. The Water Development Liaison
Committee, to be chaired by the Chief Engineer, would ensure coordination of
the water supply and small-scale irrigation aspects of agricultural develop-
ment program with the water supply activities of WRECA and with the irrigation
development program of the HJRBDA, especially in the fadamas of the Hadejia
River in Zone 4 (para 5.08).
7.04      The agricultural development program would operate through four
zones:
Zone 1:      Gwarzo, Bebeji, Rano, Kura, Tudun Wada, Rogo and
Dawakin Kudu LGAs, (headquartered at Rano);
Zone 2:      Dawakin Tofa, Minjibir, Gezawa, Bichi, Kazaure, Garki
and Danbatta LGAs, (headquartered at Danbatta);
Zone 3:      Samalia, Wudil, Gaya, Dutse, Birnin Kudu and Gwaram
LGAs, (headquartered at Birnin Kudu); and
Zone 4:      Ringim, Gumel, Maigatari, Kaugama, Birniwa, Hadejia,
Jahun and Kafin Hausa LGAs, (headquartered at Gumel).
7.05      A Zonal Development Committee (ZDC) would coordinate program
execution at the zonal level. It would consist of an appointee of the
Governor (Chairman), Chairmen of the zonal LGCs, the zonal manager and the
zonal chief accountant. It would advise on the annual zonal program and its
budget, ensure coordination with LGC officials, and monitor the staff develop-
ment of LGC staff involved in water supply maintenance. It would provide
technical coordination and advise project management on the siting of roads,
FSCs and other civil works, establish guidelines for land allocation (where
necessary) and payment of land compensation by the LGs, and review project-
related disputes. Where appropriate, the ZDC would seek advice from LGCs,
village councils, farmers groups, and the primary cooperative societies in
the zone.
7.06      Project Management.  The project would be executed by the Kano
Agricultural Program Management Unit (KNAPMU), which would report to the
KNARDEC. Its establishment would be a condition of effectiveness. During
the five-year development period, the project-s operating divisions would be
attached to the Unit, and their staffs seconded from existing Ministries:
the Agriculture Department from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Feeder
1/   Contracts of less than N60,000 could be awarded by KNAPMU.



- 39 -
Roads and Rural Water Supply Divisions from the Ministry of Rural and
Community Development. Existing agricultural extension workers, mainly
field overseers and agricultural instructors, who had been transferred to
local governments, would be transferred back to the Agriculture Department.
In addition to the program manager, key KNAPMU staff would include the
financial controller, chief technical officer, chief engineer, mechanical
engineer, irrigation engineer, chief training officer, land use planner,
chief forestry officer, principal evaluation officer and senior evaluation
officer (farm management), chief marketing officer, senior water supply
engineer, senior hydrogeologist, and mechanical engineer (Water Supplies). 1/
7.07      Four zonal managers would be responsible to the program manager
for the full implementation of the program within their zones. They would
initiate the annual work program and budget, after consultation with the ZDC
and KNAPMU. They would supervise construction of roads and water supplies,
establish and operate a zonal workshop and operations center, and maintain
transport and buildings. The zonal managers would control agricultural
development and training, and would liaise with the zonal evaluation unit,
KASCO, and cooperatives.
B. Staffing and Training
7.08      There continues to be critical shortage in Kano State, and in
general in Nigeria, of trained staff with experience in managing large and
complex projects. Experience from ongoing projects indicates that the
shortage is particularly evident at senior and middle levels of management.
The problem is further aggravated by the disparity between salary levels in
the public and private sectors, and by most state governments reluctance to
employ Nigerian personnel non-indigenous to the State. A well-designed and
systematic training program for Nigerian personnel is, therefore, necessary.
It would be supervised by the Chief Training Officer assisted by an advisory
panel of senior Ministry and project personnel. Candidates for managerial
positions would undertake individually tailored work programs which would be
systematically evaluated by the advisory panel. To reinforce the practical
on-the-job experience acquired by working closely with expatriate personnel
(para 7.10), a management skills instructor would be employed to design and
teach basic management skills and techniques based on a survey of needs
conducted in PYI. Detailed incremental staff requirements for the project
are in Annex 1, Table 8. Agricultural instructors trained by KNSG under a
crash program in 1980 before project start-up would be upgraded at a later
date.
7.09      In the three completed and six ongoing rural development projects,
the Bank has encouraged state governments to identify and recruit suitable
Nigerians for key positions, but in nearly every instance, it has proven
1/   If KNAPMU were to undertake the borehole program on force account,
two master drillers, a drilling mechanic and a water supply logis-
tics officer would be added to the KNAPMU staff.



- 40 -
extremely difficult. The large number of vacancies now existing in the
senior and middle management ranks of the MANR requires the employment of
expatriates in the accounting, engineering, training, management and techni-
cal agricultural fields. The project has therefore provided funds (about
US$94,000 per man-year) 1/ for international recruitment, where necessary,
of experienced and well-qualified staff, about 210 man-years, to supplement
the skills available from the ranks of the civil service. They would supply
administrative support, training of government staff, and reporting assistance.
7.10      Internationally recruited technical staff include the program
manager, four zonal managers, the chief technical officer and four zonal
technical officers,a conservator of forests, two evaluation officers, one
land use planner, irrigation engineer, chief training officer, four zonal
training officers, media specialist, and management instructor. Financial
staff include the financial controller, KASCO financial controller, and four
zonal chief accountants. Engineering staff include the chief engineer,
senior water supply engineer, senior hydrogeologist, three roads engineers,
and four mechanical engineers. 2/ Commercial staff would include a chief
marketing officer, and KASCO's managing director and commercial manager.
Expatriate employees would, as part of their terms of reference, be required
to participate in the training of their deputies as designated successors
and by the end of the project most, if not all, of the key managerial and
supervisory positions should be in the hands of Nigerians.
7.11      International recruitment would be carried out according to proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
the use of consultants. The cost of Nigerian nationals employed through
consulting firms in accordance with these procedures would be eligible for
reimbursement from the Loan. The Bank's Agricultural Projects Management
Unit for Western Africa (APMU) would assist in recruiting the program manager,
the financial controller, the chief technical officer, the chief engineer and
training and staff development officer. The other internationally recruited
staff would be engaged through a consulting firm or firms, Nigerian-based
where possible, in order to allow Nigerians from the private sector, as well
as expatriates, to be considered. Staff and consultants to help in project
execution would be engaged with qualifications and experience, and according
to terms of reference and contracts, satisfactory to the Bank. Recruitment
procedures were agreed during negotiations. The appointment of the program
manager, the financial controller, the chief engineer, the four zonal mana-
gers, the four zonal chief accountants, and KASCO's managing director, commer-
cial manager and financial controller would be a condition of effectiveness.
Prior to effectiveness, KNSG should have also made satisfactory arrangements
for the recruitment of the remaining KNAPMU staff.
1/   Includes salary, allowances, gratuity, medical, education and settlement
costs, international travel, company overheads and fees.
2/   Two master drillers, a drilling mechanic and a water supply logistics
manager would be required if the water supply program is undertaken on
force account (para. 4.32).



- 41 -
C. Input Distribution
The Kano Agricultural Supply Company, Limited (KASCO)
7.12      To ensure satisfactory procurement and distribution of inputs,
a State-owned input supply company, the Kano Agricultural Supply Company
Limited (KASCO), would be established. Its establishment and the appoint-
ment of senior staff (para 7.11) would be condition of effectiveness.
7.13      Under a similar regional development project in Ghana, financed
under Loan 1291-T-GH, a company similar to KASCO has been established,
with the ultimate objective of company ownership by the farmers. As in
the statewide projects in neighboring Kaduna and Bauchi States, this would
be the ultimate objective for KASCO. This could be achieved either by
merging with the Kano State Cooperative Federation Limited, or by the
progressive sale of shares to farmers as equivalent amounts of government
equity were paid off.
7.14      KASCO would actively support cooperative development.  Where
suitable cooperatives existed, FSCs would be taken over by societies to
provide inputs and services to all farmers, whether members or not. To
assist in the proper management of the FSCs, KASCO would second a General
Manager to the Kano Cooperative Federation and provide full technical
supervision, coordinating with the Chief Registrar of Cooperatives and the
respective union as appropriate. In the event that any cooperatively-managed
FSC should not perform satisfactorily, the entire input supply operation at
an FSC would revert to KASCO.
7.15      KASCO would be established in Kano under the 1968 Companies Act,
with an authorized share capital of N20.0 million. The initial issue of
shares would be subscribed wholly by KNSG. 1/ The main objectives of KASCO
would be to:
(a)  ensure the timely supply of appropriate farm inputs to as many
effective retail outlets as possible, especially cooperatives,
farmers organizations, and FSCs of whatever sort;
(b)  ensure that such supplies are efficiently distributed and avail-
able to all farmers and take appropriate steps to remedy any
deficiencies including, where necessary, the establishment of
wholly or jointly-owned retail outlets; and
(c) work in close cooperation with the Kano State Cooperative
Federation to achieve these objectives.
1/   The share capital would consist of cash equity of N3.0 million,
and other shares issued for considerations other than cash, com-
prising facilities and inventories taken over on formation of the
company.



- 42 -
A summary of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company is
in Appendix 1 of Working Paper C3. When operational, the Board of Directors
would initially consist of the Advisor to the Governor on Agriculture and
Rural Development (Chairman) Permanent Secretary, MANR, a representative
from the State Ministries of Finance, and Rural and Community Development
and two farmers, initially appointed by KASCO but eventually to be elected
by the shareowning farmers, the Chief Registrar of Cooperatives, KNAPMU
Program Manager KNADP, and the Managing Director of KASCO.
7.16      The Company's organization, with its four main divisions, is
shown in Chart 21828. Commercial Operations would be responsible for input
procurement and supply, input distribution and sales, and produce marketing.
Finance would provide central accounting support services, including basic
data collection for the Monitoring and Evaluation Section. Administration
would handle company assets, personnel, training and security. Internal
Audit would be under the operational control of the Managing Director but
report directly to the Board. Its training activities would be handled by
the Program Management Unit-s Training Division (para 7.08) and by short-
the Program Management Unit's Training Division (para 7.08) and by short-
term consultants for special tasks. Field operations would be managed on a
zonal basis and be conducted through FSCs. All FSCs would be staffed by
KASCO, except where a well-functioning cooperative society, with acceptable
staff, would be authorized to run the FSC commercial services only. In such
cases, responsibility for the audit of the society's affairs would remain
with the Chief Registrar of Cooperatives, KASCO being responsible only for
supervision with regard to inputs sales.
7.17      Equity and Assets.   In addition to the N3.0 million that KNSG
would provide KASCO prior to effectiveness, KASCO would take over upon its
formation the existing storage facilities at Dakarta Depot and the existing
fertilizer stocks, at a valuation determined by an inventory, in exchange
for shares. Furthermore, the project would provide during the five-year
project period additional investments (mainly for staff houses, offices, and
vehicles) which would be registered in KASCO's books. The projected balance
sheets, profit and loss accounts, and cash flow are given in Annex 2, Tables
9-11 and in Working Paper C3.
7.18      Staffing and Training.  As KASCO would have to build up a large
and efficient organization in a short period, additional personnel would
be trained to ensure that there would be adequate staff to operate all
FSCs. The Managing Director, Financial Controller and Commercial Manager
would be recruited internationally but all other posts would be locally
filled either by secondment from KNSG, particularly the Produce Branch, or
by direct employment. KNAPMU zonal mobile training units (MTU) would carry
out commercial training of KASCO field staff, and the KNAPMU Chief Training
Officer would assist in locating suitable external training courses where
necessary.
7.19      Farm Service Center (FSC).   There are now only 10 FSCs in Kano
State where farm inputs are sold, affording inadequate farmer access to
fertilizers, seeds and other needs. During the project, 128 additional



- 43 -
FSCs would be constructed, providing additional storage capacity of about
70,000 tons to supplement the existing 60,000 tons. All FSCs would belong
to the project, and would be leased to KASCO at a rent equivalent to 4% of
capital costs, which would be adequate to cover maintenance and administra-
tive costs. Table 4 of Working Paper C3 shows estimated zonal storage
requirements.
7.20      Sales and Credit.  Fertilizers would be sold at offical subsidized
prices, while chemicals and implements would be sold at a cost plus a 25%
markup. All inputs distributed by KASCO and the FSCs will be sold for cash
payments, but occasionally to stimulate development in new areas where
cooperative facilities are not available, KASCO would be permitted to sell
inputs to individual farmers on a seasonal credit basis. KASCO would be
permitted to sell agricultural implements and equipment on medium-term
credit, at the same terms as the cooperatives, currently 12% p.a. Coopera-
tive members needing short-term credit for inputs could also continue to
apply to their cooperative societies. The technical assistance provided by
the Chief Marketing Officer would help the cooperative unions and the Chief
Registrar assemble and process loan applicatiorns and improve recovery
performance.
D. Post-Project Development
7.21      During the project, Kano State Government staff would be in-
creased and trained to deliver a wide range of agricultural services and
support to the rural population, all under the coordination of KNAPMU. At
the end of the project, KNAPMU's. operating divisions, technically stronger
and accustomed to operating in a coordinated way, would be returned to the
Ministries from which they had been transferred for project execution. The
Program Manager and his evaluation staff would continue as a coordinating
office, to be responsible to the Governor, 1/ and would plan and monitor the
State Government-s rural development activities assigned to the executing
ministries. The Staff Development and Training Unit of the project, returned
to the Ministry of Agriculture, would continue to train new staff and offer
refresher courses and upgrading, since the professional needs of the state s
agricultural sector would only be partially filled during the project.
Beginning at the Implementation Review in Year 3, the Bank and KNSG would
discuss training and any reorganizational or management changes needed to
reintegrate the project activities into the Ministries at the end of the
project. At the Year 4 Implementation Review, or not later than December 31,
1984, KNSG would submit to the Bank detailed proposals for post-project
organization (including training of additional staff and managers), finance
(including, but not limited to, continuation of farm support services,
provision of inputs, expansion of road and water supply infrastructure, and
funding of LG maintenance responsibilities) and maintenance of project
facilities. The project provides consultancy funds, if necessary, to assist
KNSG and KNAPMU in formulating such proposals (para. 4.25).
1/   This relationship would be similar to that of the Director of the
Budget.



- 44 -
7.22      In 1985 prices, the estimated annual cost of operating and main-
taining project facilities to continue to serve the State-s rural population
would total about N28.3 million, excluding fertilizers. The estimated
annual cost of international procurement of 240,000 tons of fertilizers,
transport to Kano, and handling and distribution within the state would be
an estimated N93 million. The annual post-project cost to local govern-
ments for maintenance of the 1,000 new rural water supplies to be provided
amounts to N200,000.
7.23      The Kano Agricultural Supply Company (KASCO) would continue to
procure and distribute fertilizer and other inputs. While the State Govern-
ment now intends to retain ownership of the company indefinitely, KASCOs
articles of agreement, structure, and commercial practices would make it
possible for its shares to be sold to farmers or to the Kano State Coopera-
tive Federation at some future time.
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Financial Implications for Farmers
8.01      The two farm models constructed to represent dryland cultivation
are largely hypothetical, reflecting not only crop combinations but also the
extent to which a farm family adopts improved or advanced practices on any or
all of its holdings. One model reflects a 2.7 ha farm in the wetter dryland
areas of the (southern) Zones 1 and 3. The rainy season averages over 120
days and main crops are sorghum, cowpeas, and millet. It is possible to
cultivate maize and cotton. The second model depicts a 3 ha farm in the
drier (northern) Zones 2 and 4 where the 600 to 800 mm of rain falls during
a shorter and less reliable rainy season, averaging 110 days, beginning not
before early June. Under traditional practices, millet, either as a solo
crop or with cowpeas or sorghum, is the main crop. In practice, a farmer-s
decision to adopt new cultivation practices requiring increased fertilizer
application and more, hired labor would be influenced by several factors.
The existing highly subsidized fertilizer prices considerably reduce financial
risk to the farmer.   But even with subsidies, the attractiveness of the basic
service package would depend not only on a reliable and timely supply of
inputs, but also on the adequacy of extension services and marketing opportun-
ities, which the project is to improve.
8.02      Detailed farm budgets are presented in Annex 4, Tables 2 and 3, and
summarized below:
Table 5: Summary of Farm Budgets
(Unsubsidized Prices)
N
Zones l and 3 - 2.7 ha Farm    Zones 2 and 4 - 3.0 ha Farm
W/OP        W/P       W/P          W/OP             W/P
Traditional Improved Advanced    Traditional    Improved
Family Farm Income   570         1,140     1,179         315           918
Income Per Capita      75          150       155          41           121
Income per labor-day   2.10          2.81      2.99        1.13          2.24



- 45 -
Most project area farms would be represented by these manually cultivated
rainfed units. A farm family adopting BSP techniques could expect to increase
its "with project" net farm income in Zones 1 and 3 from N570 (US$1,036) to
N1,140 (US$2,063) and in Zones 2 and 4 from N315 (US$573) to N918 (US$1,162).
Increases in income for both models are about 10% higher if fertilizer subsidies
are retained. By adopting improved practices, the farm family would also be
able to employ more productively its available family labor. Despite the
rather larger labor input requirement in Zones 1 and 3 (405 days from 271),
the spreading of this work input by adopting better crop combinations does not
lead to a similarly large increase in cash outlays for labor. Peak labor
requirements, for thinning and weeding in June and July, would be met by hired
labor at N3.00 per day, to supplement the 50 labor-days/month available for
strenuous tasks.
8.03      The model presented for the ASP in Zones 1 and 3 shows only a
small increase in per capita incomes (3%) or returns per labor-day (6%) over
the BSP.  Two explanations are possible.  In practice, only farmers with
holdings larger than 2.7 ha are likely to adopt the ASP, growing more maize
and cotton and thus increasing their cash incomes considerably.  More signi-
ficantly, as farmers are unlikely to adopt the BSP on all their holdings,
the N1,140 resulting from the model represents a maximum increase in
family farm income. Actual increases will depend on the proportion of
family holdings on which the BSP is adopted. 1/
8.04      Comparisons of per capita incomes based on farm budgets with
income data based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted with
caution under most circumstances. The unavailability of recent national
accounts, the unreliable population estimates (para. 3.10) and the often
conflicting GDP deflators make this especially true for Nigeria. It is
possible to give some rough indication of the relative economic position of
project beneficiaries. Bank estimates place Nigeria's per capita income at
N368 or US$670 in 1979, the 1978 relative rural poverty level at N74
(US$114) and the 1978 absolute rural poverty level at N100 (US$154). FADP
evaluation results indicate that 70 to 80% of family income can be imputed
to crops raised for consumption on the farm. For the subsistence farmers of
Kano State, which the traditional cultivation model is meant to represent,
this would yield annual per capita incomes of N94 (US$170) in Zones 1 and
3 and N59 (US$106) in Zones 2 and 4, 2/ placing the latter group among the
1/   If improved practices are introduced on 1.6 million ha (allowing for
intercropping) at full development, using the ratio of intercropped
area to cultivated area observed in 1979 would yield an actual area
under improved and advanced practices of about 870,000 ha, i.e. on
average about 2 ha per family adopting improved practices.
2/   In Zones 1 and 3, the annual on-farm production, about 1,800 kg,
exceeds minimum nuritional requirements for a 7.6 person family by
about 18%. Taking this as 80% of total income, this would give other
annual family income (both in vegetables and in cash) N143. In Zones
2 and 4, on-farm production supplies only 72% of requirements. If bare
additional needs are met, other annual family income would be N122.



- 46 -
relatively poor. Under improved practices, and assuming no drop in other
income, per capita incomes could increase substantially to N169 (US$306)
in Zones 1 and 3 and N138 (US$250) in Zones 2 and 4, great improvements
above subsistence level but still much less than the national average.
These comparisons show that the project would greatly increase the income of
poorer farmers in the project area and help narrow the income gap between
rural and urban areas of Kano State.
8.05      As fadama lands are in most cases part of a farming unit con-
taining rainfed uplands, and as it was not possible to arrive at a mixed
cropping model, no farm budget has been prepared for the fadama component.
With the high prices prevailing for vegetables and other irrigated crops and
the reduction in risk due to the use of irrigation, this component should be
financially attractive to project area farmers. Per hectare crop returns,
allowing for full cost recovery on land levelling and equipment, have
been calculated for sorghum, rice, tomatoes and wheat, under fadama intensi-
fication, flood irrigation, and pump irrigation programs.   Without subsidy
figures are shown below, and more details appear in Annex 4, Table 4.
Table 6: Per Hectare Crop Returns - Fadama Cultivation
(Unsubsidized Costs)
N
Net
Return per ha          Return per labor-day
W/OP 1/   W/P          W/OP 1/         W/P
Sorghum             148      151            2.96          3.02
Rice                244      501            1.87          2.98
Tomato            3,060    4,680            3.81          8.10
Wheat               315      345            1.37          3.00
1/   From the preparation report, Annex 3.
B. Financial Implications to Governments
8.06      The project would not directly increase Government revenues,
as farmers' output is not taxed and the Cotton, Groundnuts and Grains
Marketing Boards are not revenue producers for FGN at present price levels.
Some indirect public revenue generation could be expected, however, as
project beneficiaries would spend part of their increased incomes on con-
sumer goods and services offered by the private sector, some of which carry
a tax element, mostly in the form of import duties. As such, the increased
tax revenue would accrue to FGN for the most part, rather than KNSG.
Precise quantification of such increased tax revenue is not possible, but an
upper limit may be suggested. If 50% of benefits enter the cash economy,
and are spent on goods carrying an average tax rate of 15%, then (in con-
stant base terms) the additional public revenue would be in the region of



- 47 -
N11.4 million per annum at full development. In practice, it is expected
that a higher proportion of benefits would be taken in the form of non-taxed
local produce. Small amounts of additional revenue might be generated at
the State or Local Government level through increased payments of market
fees, etc.
8.07      The financial costs to the Kano State Government during the project
period total about N193 million (US$350.9 million) and are summarized in
Annex 2, Table 4. The State's share of project costs, in current price
terms, would be about N70 million over the five-year period, excluding
input subsidies, but including N3.0 million equity contribution to KASCO
and NO.5 million equity contribution to cooperatives. The State-s expen-
diture on existing project-related activities, which will be transferred to
KNAPMU, amount to N17.9 million in current terms over the five-year period.
The State share of the cost of farm inputs, under current subsidy arrangements
would total N105.1 million (current prices). Total State expenditure in
current price terms would rise from N24.1 million in PYI to N60.2 million
in PY5, averaging N38.6 million per annum. In addition, the State would be
obliged to prefinance expenditures eligible for IBRD reimbursement in the
early stages of project implementation. The precise amounts involved would
depend on the speed and efficiency with which disbursement applications were
submitted and much of this prefinancing could be taken care of through the
project's overdraft facility.
8.08      The Bank has reviewed the future budgetary resources of Kano
State. The results indicate that, exclusive of fertilizer subsidies, the
total State expenditures for the agricultural sector, including this project,
would be less than 10% of the State's expected revenues over the project
period. Continuing the present input subsidy policy would add an additional
5%. At negotiations, KNSG confirmed the prime importance attached to agri-
cultural development, and its intention to raise the share of agriculture
in State budgets from about 5% to 10%.  In the post-project period (1985
prices) total State annual expenditures to continue activities begun under
the project would amount to about N28.3 million, (para 7.22) excluding
fertilizer subsidies.
8.09      Direct FGN input would amount to N170.5 million (current prices)
or on average N34.1 million annually, assuming the continuation of existing
policies. Fertilizer subsidies represent N122.5 million. In 1985 prices,
federal fertilizer subsidies in the post-project period would be about
N44.1 million a year. Details of financial implications to FGN and KNSG are
shown in Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4.
8.10      Cost of servicing the IBRD loan would depend on the lending rate
current at the time of approval. Assuming 9.6% interest, and 20-year term
(with 5 years grace), initially commitment fees would run US$1.1 million
per annum, but interest would build up to a maximum of about US$13.6 million.
Thus, with principal repayments at US$9.5 million per annum, peak total debt
service would approach US$23.1 million in Year 6.



- 48 -
C. Cost Recovery
8.11      KASCO would recover all costs for procurement and distribution of
seeds, chemicals, sprayers and agricultural implements through adequate mark-
ups. KASCO's cost recovery practices would be reviewed annually by KNSG and
the Bank in light of KASCO's annual report, audited accounts, and operations
program, to ensure that costs are fully recovered. Calculations of the mark-
ups that would be required are shown in Working Paper C6. The project would
provide technical advice, including basic surveying, to farmers without charge.
But actual land development costs, including land levelling and field bunding,
would be paid by benefitting farmers, if necessary by loans arranged through
their cooperative unions. Water-lifting equipment and simple storage facili-
ties would be sold by KASCO and the project at a full cost basis. Consultancy
provisions under the proposed Kaduna State ADP (Report No. 2718-UNI) and under
the general studies consultancies of this project (para 4.25) would examine
the possibility of developing a viable LG tax system, which could recover
infrastructural costs and help place the maintenance of rural roads and water
supply on a sound financial basis.
IX. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Project Benefits
9.01      The project's two main benefits are closely related.  Improving
the management and staffing, and hence the effectiveness of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Rural and Community
Development and cooperative institutions, and the establishment of the new
KASCO, would enable a large number of Kano State's 614,000 farm families to
raise their productivity and incomes. The effects of project packages on
farm incomes are quantified in Chapter VIII. In addition, increased project
area food production would assist in reducing Nigeria's 1985 projected food
deficit.
9.02      As one of the first of a proposed series of Bank-assisted state-
wide agricultural development projects, the project will attempt to intro-
duce, on a larger scale, many of the successful management and organizational
techniques adopted in the limited area ADPs already in progress. This strategy
has been adopted by the Government in its efforts to meet Nigeria's projected
food deficit and channel more resources, more efficiently, to the rural sector.
The project cannot be regarded as experimental - its agronomic features are
tried, the four zonal units are each not much larger than ongoing ADPs, and
the project organization integrates and strengthens mostly existing institu-
tions. The project cost, while meeting state and federal intentions to in-
crease the share of revenues directed to agricultural development, is regarded
as realistic within the overall fiscal resources likely to be available to the
State (para 8.08). Staff development and training figure prominently in
project design, not only for agricultural staff, but also for staff in the
cooperative and rural infrastructure sectors.



- 49 -
9.03      There are an estimated 614,000 farm families in the project area,
and assuming (on experience from existing ADPs) that 60 to 70% of farmers
adopt some of the project recommendations, then some 430,000 families (3.2
million individuals) will benefit directly from the project-s agricultural
components. Others will benefit from infrastructure components (rural roads
and water supplies, para 9.04). The project is not designed primarily to
increase the number of persons employed in agriculture, and the technologi-
cal packages should be able to be introduced within the present labor
supply. The economic analysis assumes an increased hired labor input of some
7 million labor days per annum at full development. In view of the present
highly uneven seasonal pattern of labor utilization, emphasis will be placed
on eliminating bottlenecks by improved field practices, such as timely
weeding and better tools, and raising the productivity of off-season family
labor, for example, by improved storage. The adaptive research program,
introduction of simple improved implements, fadama upgrading ,and the water
supply program are all among project components which would help realize
this aim.
9.04      Formal analysis of the rate of return on the rural water supply
program would not be meaningful because of the practical impossibility of
quantifying and internalizing the various benefits into a single indicator
like the net present value. Many of the benefits will be qualitative, due
to an improvement in the safety and reliability of water supply. Additional
labor will be released for other productive tasks. The subcomponent was
thus designed on a cost-minimization basis, as the lowest cost means of
bringing safe year-round water supplies to a substantial number of rural
people in a reasonable time. However, in view of non-quantifiability of
benefits the subcomponent is excluded from the calculation of the project's
rate of return. No additional benefits from vehicle operating cost savings
have been imputed to the feeder roads subcomponent, as poor communications
may otherwise impede participation in the project altogether.
B. Economic Rate of Return
9.05      The project-s economic rate of return (ERR) is about 36%, and its
net present value (NPV) discounted at 11%, the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in Nigeria, is about N228.6 million.
9.06      The ERR was calculated on the basis of incremental costs and
incremental output. Project life was assumed to be 25 years, including
a five-year investment period during which statewide development activities
would be substantially completed. For the calculation of project costs,
farm inputs were costed at full, unsubsidized economic cost. Additional
on-farm labor was costed at Nl.50 per day in border naira, representing
the average daily productivity in unimproved agriculture when all outputs
are valued in economic (border naira) terms 1/. Other local costs were
1/   Hired labor requirements under improved practices in Zones 2 and 4
are slightly less than in traditional cultivation. In Zones 1 and
3, about 7 million man-days per year at full development, with a
border economic value of N10.6 million, have been included in
project costs.



50 -
converted to border naira using a standard conversion factor (SCF) of
0.83 (supply). This adjustment allows for distortions to local costs
resulting from import duties, quotas etc. Local costs used base period
prices, on the grounds that continued disparity between domestic inflation
will, at some stage, result in either an exchange rate adjustment, or
increased trade restrictions (hence a fall in the SCF), while a delay in
such adjustment would represent a political choice to apply oil "rent" to
consumption. A portion of project costs consists either of long-term
institution building, not directly related to the agricultural productivity
benefits attributed to the project, or of rural infrastructure (para 9.04)
for which quantification of benefits is problematic. 1/ Working Paper Cll
gives details of the adjustments made to project costs to allow for these
elements. Project benefits comprise the value of incremental crop produc-
tion, priced at border farmgate prices derived from import parity for
internationally traded goods and their immediate substitutes, and from
domestic retail prices, adjusted by the SCF (demand), 0.69, for non-traded
outputs. To calculate the naira border value, import parity prices were
calculated, based on IBRD forecasts for 1981-1990, in constant 1981 dollars,
converted at the official exchange rate.
C. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
9.07      The sensitivity of the ERR to changes in cost or benefit streams
was tested, and the percentage change in a stream or streams that would
reduce the ERR to its minimum acceptable value of 11%, (or equivalently reduce
the NPV at 11% to zero) were calculated. Costs would have to rise by 44%, or
benefits fall by 30%, to yield a minimum acceptable ERR of 11%, or an NPV of
zero. The daily shadow wage could rise from N1.50 to about N5 before
the NPV fell to zero. Benefits from the production of grain crops, about
60% of total project benefits, would have to fall by 50%. An increase in
fertilizer prices of 25% would leave the ERR at about 25% and the NPV about
N130 million. Adoption rates would have to fall by 63% to 26% to reduce
the NPV to zero. A delay of one year in benefits alone (with no delay in
costs) would reduce the NPV to N146.6 million (about 36%), and even a
delay of three years still would leave the NPV positive.
9.08      Although the sensitivity analysis indicates that the project
could tolerate a certain amount of latitude in actual values from those
projected, it is important that major divergences in costs, yields or timing
be avoided. 2/ Sound initial management, regular and timely financing, and
efficient and dependable procurement and distribution of farm inputs will be
1/   Costs for rural water supply were excluded.  Costs of studies and
project activities relating to cooperatives, marketing and evaluation
were reduced by 50% to account for their mainly long-term impact.
2/   Divergencies in economic prices are regarded as outside project control.



- 51 -
crucial to success. Failure in any of these areas could have very serious
implications, and safeguards in each area are listed in Chapter X. The
project's BSP and ASP are fairly simple and well tested both at research
station and farm level and refinements to improve the mixed cropping recom-
mendations should result from the project-s applied research component.
9.09      As the financial viability of various crop enterprises would
depend upon Government policies affecting producer prices, e.g. international
trade policy towards farm produce and the activities of marketing boards,
the Bank will need to maintain a continuing dialogue with FGN over such
national policy issues. This dialogue has made an excellent start with
close Bank involvement in assisting FGN to draw up a National Food Plan.
The Bank is also assisting FGN improve the operations of the National Grains
Board (para 3.24) and streamline fertilizer procurement (para 2.12). The
drilling program for rural water supply would run the risk that actual costs
might exceed estimates (unit contract costs for much smaller drilling programs
in the area are substantially above project unit costs). The appraisal costs
are based on an efficient, large-scale force account operation, with addi-
tional allowances for physical contingencies and firm overheads.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations for the proposed loan, the following major
issues were discussed and agreements reached with FGN and KNSG and specified
as conditions in the Loan and Project Agreements:
Financial Conditions
(a)   FGN and KNSG would each provide its share of project costs to the
project quarterly and in advance, these sums to be paid into the
KNAPMU-s bank account (para 4.31);
(b)   in the event that KNSG were delinquent in paying its quarterly
share of project costs into the project account, FGN would be
authorized to pay KNSG's contribution directly from the State's
statutory allocation (paras 4.31 and 4.36);
(c)   Bank disbursements would be made directly to the KNAPMU bank account
(para 4.31);
(d)   KNSG would review annually and agree with the Bank KASCO's cost
recovery policies and practices, to ensure that they enable the
cost of any input or service to be fully recovered (para 8.11);
(e)   KNSG would contribute to the working capital of cooperative unions
and primary societies to assist them in their marketing activities,
amounting to about N500,000 (para 6.03).



- 52 -
Project Administration Conditions
(f)   fertilizer procurement and distribution procedures satisfactory to
the Bank would be established (para 4.28);
(g)   KNSG would review annually with KNAPMU and the LGs arrangements
for the maintenance of roads and water supply facilities, and
for staff training, providing as necessary the funds required
for these purposes (para 4.36);
(h)   procurement (para 4.32), audit (para 4.34), budgeting (para 4.35),
and reporting (para 4.36) requirements would be satisfactory to the
Bank;
(i)   consultants (para 4.25) and internationally-recruited staff
(listed in para 7.10) with qualifications and experience accept-
able to the Bank, would be appointed on satisfactory terms and
conditions, and according to agreed recruitment procedures (para
7.11);
(j)   not later than December 31, 1984, KNSG would make recommendations
for the future of project activities and the post-project
organization (para 7.21);
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(k)   a subsidiary loan agreement between FGN and KNSG, acceptable
to the Bank, had been signed (para 4.31);
(1)   FGN and KNSG had each made its initial contribution of N3.0
million to the KNAPMU bank account (para 4.31);
(m)   overdraft facilities for KNAPMU, equivalent to N5 million,
had been arranged in a commercial bank and guaranteed by KNSG
(para 4.31);
(n)   the Action Plan for 1981 acceptable to the Bank had been drawn
up (para 4.36);
(o)   KNSG had established KNAPMU and KNARDEC (paras 7.02, 7.06);
(p)   the KNAPMU Program Manager, Financial Controller, Chief Engineer,
four zonal managers, four zonal chief accountants, and KASCO.s
Managing Director, Commercial Manager and Financial Controller had
been appointed (paras 7.11 and 7.12);
u)   KNSG had established KASCO and made an initial equity payment
of N3.0 million (paras 7.12, 7.17);
10.02    On the basis of these agreements and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$142.0 million to the Federal Republic of
Nigeria.



-53-
Table
fMl3   R=a      MATLJL DVPWPMENT PsIICT
rFtosirEed    Qnr e   Crp macadotiona - All Zones
Seed     SPacIng
oRe-      rvoe           Fritoah/s                                             YIeld
Crop          Cocos TZ sdinin  '    Varieties                        Crop Miotoras                          Plants cm   cSP    CAN    Crop Proteonlon                            ka/ha
Serghee       I & 3    Traditional    Traditional anons multi  -rops                              9    Wide  -siable    Nil    Nil    Nil    Nil                                  550
Improved        Traditional                 Millet                        12    90e60n2 or         100             5S   Sled dro-eivg .03 kg             850
YC 5760 (No-th)             9rocodnot                           Slo3Dol             or   1i0       50    a-to l   p   kg acod
SE 5912 (Sooth)             Coaree
Advanced        Kono BL                      Croondnut                    12    90o30x2            150             100    Seed dreo-in  .003 kg          1,20O
YG 5760                     Cropo-                                                                        cotor-al per kg oeod
SI 59 12 boerore            Sol
sooth
2 A 4    Tr-ditlonl    Tr-dilov-al                   Wi-h eillot                         V avrioblo         Nil    Nil    Nil    Nil                               41).'
Ieproved        TG 5760                      With logono or  tillo       172   90xCxC2             100                    Sead dreliD,G 0-03 kg           601
cor lpo- kg cod
Milltt        t & 3    T-aditiovol    Tr-dititovl                    V-o1t..                       8    Wide-gi-i          Nil    Nil    Ntl    Nil                                350
Ft Borne tige-nia           (astly Iniclud-e                    -artebhe
temepocino                    sorgicel
lIpreved        E. 8rte-  Nigortat          ROlap  roopped vith           8    90o60n2              75              SC    Seed dr-esiog .003 kg           600
Cocposite                   leg-ces sndlv-  -otton                                  00      75     50    cat-ric1 p-r kg seed
2 & 4    Tradititocl    Tr-ditioeel Et  B-oro           -ropprd _ith Segono          8    Veriabl            Nil    Nil    Nil    Nil                               250
Nigerian Coopocino
liprored        E. Bor-o Nigerian           Crorppd with ononees          8    9CS60x2             100                    Seed drooing  .003 kg           450
Composite                   or groc-dneta                                                                 ca-erlol par kg coed
Holzn         I 6 3    Tr-ditio-ol    Lovol  hite                   Var-oce  -Ili orope         1I      V-irble           N1il    Nil    Nil    Nil                               450
Inprov-d        TOO                          With legnvS   or coreor     T0    90C60okrl           150     t        0    Sieed dro-sing                 1,200
or     too    100
Advoend         TZt                          Sole                         20    90h45o 2           250             250    Seed dre,ing .003r kg         2 000
or    250    050    odteria i 0   kg orod
Cropec        I 6 3    T-oditinl   Ftrin                           Vario-e mlti crop.           lT    Ve-y tide          Nil    Nil    Nil    Nil                                120
Forty Wake                                                      -cohohir                                                                          11,ynthettc pyrotkrnidc
Inprovad        176l , 341 1W)             Uoder - rre l-                15    90v30I2             Nil      5i    Nil    2 WLV Sp-cyioo   11              500        -ah-yl Ior ny ithe.
335, 335 (B)                Relar _ith villo-                                                             2 kg/ho I" I kh/hr                         hit.b   I---. i.1
2 & 4    TraditiovoI    Loval                         Mainly _ith nillelt          IC    Varible             Nil    Nil    Nil    Nil                               105
Fari. Wale
Inproved        176B, 341 (W)                Under nillot                 15    90x30x2            Nil    Nil    Nil    2 ULV Sprayia                     300
335, 335 (B)                                                                                              2 kg/he 3 1 khhe h '
Gr?undavt    I & 3    T-aditcssa.        561                         Ver-ios  olvi crops          30    Wild-gii           Nil    Nil    Nil    Nil                                350
Inpr-erd        M 95.71                      Mtllot/groovdaore           40    90t22x2             Nil    155     Nil ol    LV  S900yi,g   I0
M103.74                                                                                                   1 _hg/h    I kglh
M599.74
2 & 4    Traditlonel    S 6I                          Wfth gosit                   305    Variable           Nil    Ni:    Nil   Nhl                                200
Improved        M 95.71                     With  ill- or                40    90.o222             Nil    150    Nil    I dLV Spr-yig    1                450
M103.4                      sorh_                                                                         I kg/         kg,h
M599.74
Cntton        1 6 3    Traditional    ham 71                         Lon p-a         - odoly      10    Nh      rd         0il    NiT    Nil    S-ed aIready droco-d               190
Itpr-e-d        SFe  71                     Rklo>  -opynd                5"    90k6352             ICO            150     2 UtV St-yigS.3 I kgh1    350
wtih nillrt/co-pe-                                     or    150    100    2 kla/h. t dre-ced need
Advev-od        Sac 71                       Roloy -ro-ped Millet         20    9045o 2           l50             i00    4 UtV Sptapi E
soIc                                                   or    150    1OD    4 kg/ia t droseod seed   60  600
4      Tradltnal    San 71                           tte plan-od w,dely          10    haohacan-d          Nil    Nil    Nl       Se-d al-dy dr oe.               107
Jone 4, 1980



-54-
NIGEPtIA                                                   ANNEX I
Table 2
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Rainfed Upland Crop Development Projections
All Zones
'000 ha
Crop           Technology      Year 0    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Sorghum        Traditional       1,204      1,168      1,085        975        860        730
Improved           196        232         305       400         485        585
Advanced                                   10         25         55         85
Total         1,400      1,400      1,400      1,400      1,400      1,400      Year 5 Incremental I + A 670 ha
Millet         Traditional       1,451      1,414      1,298      1,158      1,030        925
Improved           207        244        360        500        628         733
Total         1,658      1,658      1,658      1,658      1,658      1,658      Year 5 Incremental   I   733 ha
Maize          Traditional          38         38         38         37         36         36
Improved              7         11         16         21         28         34
Advanced                                    2          6         10         15
Total            45         49         56         64         74         85      Year 5 Incremental I + A  49 ha
Cowpea         Traditional       1,313      1,300      1,265      1,209      1,146      1,087
Improved                       13         48        104        167        226
Total         1,313      1,313      1,313      1,313      1,313      1,313      Year 5 Incremental   I   226 ha
Groundnut      Traditional         397        384        360        336        310        283
Improved            25          34         51         67         83         99
Total           422        418        411        403        393        382      Year 5 Incremental   I    99 ha
Cotton         Traditional          43         41         39         37         35         33
Improved              5          5          5          7          7          9
Advanced                         2          4          4          6          6     Year 5 Incremental I + A  15 ha
Total Improved:           1686 h'
Total Advanced:            106 ha
Total            48         48         48         48         48         48      Total Incremental I + A 1792 ha
i.e. 6 ha cropped x 300,000 farm
June 5, 1980                                                                                      families



ANNEX 1
-55 -                                 Table 3
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rainfed Crop Development Projections - Production
('000 t)
% Increase
Year 0     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      over Year 5
Crops
Sorghum           784.15    794.55      821.15      859.04      902.09      950.09            21
Incremental                10.40       37.00       75.25      118.75      166.75
Millet            540.05    548.05       572.75      603.07     631.45      653.65            21
Incremental                  8.00      32.07       63.65       91.04      113.06
Maize              24.10      28.10       37.10       49.65       64.20       80.20          232
Incremental                  4.00      13.00       25.55       40.01       56.01
Cowpeas           149.22    155.62       172.88     202.32      235.82      266.24            78
Incremental                  6.04      23.66       53.01       86.06      117.02
Groundnuts        143.20    145.65       149.80      153.20     155.95      158.60            10
Incremental                   2.45        6.06      10.00       12.75       15.40
Cotton              9.35      10.17       10.99       11.31      12.13       12.45           33
Incremental                  0.82       1.64        1.96        2.78        3.01
July 1980



- 56 -
NIGERIA                                                        ANNEX 1
Table 4
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fadama Crop Recommendations
Seed
Fertilizer           Rate                                                    Y1P.1ge
Crop                    ki/ha              kg/ha    Crop Protection                   Y5          Y4           Y3         Y2          Yl
Onions                Compound:  300           1     3 - 4 Sprayings                24,000      22,000      18,000      14,000      12,000
CAN        200                N 20/ha synthetic pyre-
throids, carbaryl or any
other suitable insecti-
cide
Tomatoes              Compound:  300           4     3 - 4 Sprayings                25,000      22,000      19,000      17,000      15,000
CAN     : 250                  N 20/ha synthetic proe-
throids, or carbaryl
with fungicide
Other Vegetables      Compound:  250           3     3 _4 Sprayings                 20,000      18,000      16,000      14,000     12,000
CAN     :  100                N 20/ha synthetic pyre-
throids or carbaryl
with fungicide
Rice                  Compound:  200          45                                     2,500       2,000       1,600       1,200       1,000
CAN     : 150
Wheat                 Compound:  200         1O0                                     2,000       2,000       1,900       1,700       1,500
Sorghum               Compound:  200          12                                     1,500       1,200         900         700         500
CAN     :  100
Maize                 Compound:  250          20                                     2,000       1,600        1,300       1,000        700
CAN     : 250



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fadama Crop Development Projections Cumulative Area (ha)
CROPS
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year 5
Dry Season
Gardens             480         1,780       3,330        5,130       6,830
Wet Season
Gardens             600         2,450       4,300        6,150       5,900
Fringe
Lands             1,250         4,500       7,750       11,250      14,750
Total Cropped Area  2,330         8,730      15,380       22,530      27,480
July 1980



NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fadama Crop Development Projections - Production
Year I                     Year 2                     Year 3                   Year 4                     Year 5                Pre-Pro'ect
Area      Production      Area      Production       Area      Production      Area      Production       Area      Production       Production       Incremental
Crops                     T         (t            (h.)         (tons)        (ha)          t           (h           (ton          (ha)         ton)            (tons)         Yr.5-Yr.O %
Onions                  200         2,400         700         9,800          1,450       26,100        2,300       50,600         3,150       75,600         210,000            35.7%.
Tomatoes                100         1,500         450         7,650            800       15,200        1,200       26,400         1,600       40,000         105,000            38.0'.
Other Vegetables        100         1,200         400         5,600            700       11,200        1,100       19,800         1,400       28,000          42.000            66.6%
Rice                    420           420       1,690         2,028          2,960        4,736        4,230        8,460         5,900       14,750          35,000            42.1%
Wheat                    80           120         230            391           380          722          530         1,060          680        1,360           5,250            25.9%
Sorghum                 900           450       3,000         2,100          1,620        4,590        7,400        8,880         9,700       14,550           -                 _
Maize                   350           245       1,500         1,500          2,650        3,445        3,850        6,160         5,050       10,100           _
Ju0n
June 9, 1980



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
NIGERIA                                                Table 7
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Lnput Reguirsemets
INPUTS                    UNITS          PYO        PYI        PY2        t13         PY4         PY5
Fertilizers
Compound                  000 Tons      25.8       44.20      63.90      88.99      129.56      157.56
SSP                          "          11.4        5.80       9.55      14.10       19.10       23.85
CAN                          "           9.7       14.75      22.07      32.68       44.32       54.36
Total                                   46.9       64.76      95.52    135.77       192.99      235.77
Incremental                                        17.86      48.62      88.87      146.09      188.87
Insecticides
Synthetic Pyrethroids       Tons                   78.0       165.0    305.0        455.0       590.0
or Carbaryl
Seed dressing insecti-
cide/fungicide            "I                      1.404       2.031    2.784        2.554       4.299
Seeds
Sorghum                     Tons         0.077    139.74    190.8        258        384.44      407.8
Millet                        "          0.021      97.6      144.       200        251.2       293.2
Cowpea                        '          0.005       9.75      36.        78        125.25      169.5
Maize                                    0.037      11.35      18.        29.6       41.85       54.
Groundnut                     "          0.104      68.       103.5      134.       166.        192.
Cotton                                             140.       180.       220.       260.        300.
Tomatoes                      i                      0.08       0.36       0.64       0.96        1.28
Onions          J                        0.007       0.04       0.14       0.29       0.46        0.63
Other vegetables                                     0.6        0.24       0.42       0.66        0.84
Rice                          "           --         0.945      3.80       6.66       9.51       13.27
Wheat                         ii         0.150       0.40       1.15       1.9        2.65        3.4



ANNEX 1
- 60-                                   Table 8
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Agriculture Staff Requirements
Year 0   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
AO/AS
Senior Development Officers         -          4        4         4          4      4
Training Officers                   -         28       28        28         28     28
Research Officers                   -          5        5         5          5      5
Subject Matter Specialists          -          8        8         8          8      8
District AOs'                       -         19        19       19         19     19
Plant Protection Officers           -          4        4         4          4      4
Irrigation Officers                 -          4        4         4          4      4
Total                          571/      72        72        72        72      72
AA
Extension                          77         48       66        87        107    114
Plant Protection                    0          3        8        15         19     20
Irrigation                          0          0        8        15         18     20
Total                          77        51        82       117       144    154
FO
Extension                         196        376      536       696        856    927
1/ Includes 26 AO/AS graduates in 1980.
August 18, 1980
JMiller:sg



-61-
ANNEX 1
Table 9
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Lending for Agriculture in Nigeria
Loan Number       Year       Project                        Loan amount US$ mn.
764          1971      Western State Cocoa                     7.2
1045         1974      Second Cocoa                            20.0
1091         1975      Livestock                               21.0
1092         1975      Funtua ADP                              29.0
1099         1975      Gusau ADP                              19.0
1103         1975      Rice                                    17.5
1164         1975      Gombe ADP                               21.0
1183         1975      Mid-West Oil Palm                       29.5
(Bendel State, Nucleus Estate/
Smallholder)
1191         1976      East-Central Oil Palm                  19.0
(Imo State, Smallholder)
1192         1976      Western Oil Palm                       17.0
(Ondo State, Nucleus Estate/
Smallholder)
1454         1977      Lafia ADP                              27.0
1455         1977      Ayangba ADP                            35.0
1591         1978      Rivers Oil Palm                        30.0
(Nucleus Estate/Smallholder)
1667         1979      Bida ADP                               23.0
1668         1979      Ilorin ADP                             27.0
1679         1979      Forestry                               31.0
1719         1979      Agricultural and Rural Management
Institute                               9.0
1838         1980      Oyo North ADP                          28.5
1854         1980      Ekiti-Akoko ADP                        32.5
443.2
NOTE: For location of existing and proposed projects see Map IBRD 15065.



AINEX 2
Table 1
-62-
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(NAIRA '000)
1           2            3            4            5      TOTALS
MANAGEMENT SERVICES            4892.26     1714.54      1764.36      2071.56      1789.16    12231.88
STAFF TRAINING                5626.31      2058.81      2008.81      2709.11      1977.61    14380.65
MONITORING & EVALUATION       1238.29       737.29       737.29       788.09       737.29      4238.25
LAND USE PLANNING              388.82       208.52       238.52       249.02       20B.52     1293.40
EXTENSION                    11255.43      7513.11      6733.01      5720.79      5143.78    36366.12
FADAMA IRRIGATION              799.24       379.64       496.33       645.83       409.63      2730.67
SEED MULTIPLICATION            693.06       358.06       358.06       468.36       358.06      2235.60
APPLIED RESEARCH                773.29      270.29       264.09       363.59       257.89      1929.15
ENGINEERING SERVICES          2298.27       989.81       851.40       714.15       640.15     5493.76
ROAD CONSTRUCTION              9025.16     4057.78      6943.11      4947.11      4593.91    29567.08
MECHANICAL WORKSHOPS           5114.49     1464.71      1347.01      1138.01      1000.01    10064.21
RURAL WATER SUPPLY            3210.23      2991.78      2166.68      2888.04      2036.54    13293.27
COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT         266.00      454.50       673.50       747.50       609.50      2751.00
MARKETING DEVELOPMENT           271.57      353.07       327.47       421.47       208.07      1581.65
FARM SUPPLY COMPANY           5055.95      2425.53      2582.45      2730.25      2107.25    14901.43
FERTILIZER-INCREMENTAL        6275.22      6804.96      9070.97    13637.62    10006.00    45794.77
OTHER INPUTS                   935.98      1012.26      1401.36      1511.55      1452.77     6313.92
FORESTRY                       513.42       783.00       98 .96       760.26       627.46     3665.10
SUBTOTAL                     58632.99    34577.65    38945.37    42512.30    34163.59   208831.90
LESS PREPROJECT COSTS         2658.50      2658.50      2658.50      2658.50      2658.50    13292.50
INCREMENTAL BASE COSTS       55974.49    31919.15    36286.87    39853.80    31505.09   195539.40
FOREIGN                 29667.04    14290.31    16858.78    19730.33    13525.63    94072.09
LOCAL                   26307.45    17628.84    19428.08    20123.47    17979.46   101467.31
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES        3888.23      2184.73      2156.85      2218.59      1751.51    12199.91
PRICE CONTINGENCIES           3413.32      6213.85    11260.13    17570.23    19055.80    57513.34
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          63276.04    40317.74    49703.85    59642.63    52312.40   265252.65
TOTAL FOREIGN COSTS          33005.16    17363.71    21772.95    27183.16    19951.08   119276.05
TOTAL LOCAL COSTS            30270.89    22954.02    27930.90    32459,47    32361.32   145976.60



ANNEX 2
-63-                          Table 2
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS BY FINANCING CATEBOFY
(NAIRA '000)
1           2            3           4            5      TOTALS
CIVIL WORKS                  25444.53     7960.87      5500.32     1223.02       695.48    40824.22
VEHICLES,PLANT,EOUJIP.       19534.36     4733.68      8969.68    11273.28      6089.77    50600.78
BOREHOLE DRILLING                0.00     2110.89      1270.72     1679.36      1537.76     6598.73
INTERNATIONAL SALARIES        2368.06     2590.72      2799.10     2801.73      2500.86    13060.48
CONSULTANTS&EXT. TRAIN.        459.12      527.89       334.72      389.50       403.14     2114.39
LOCAL SALARIES                5522.52     8276.69    10866.49    12913.43    14506.61    52085.74
OPERATING COSTS&EXPENSES      1997.37     4505.14      5811.61     6934.43      7949.10    27197.65
FERTILIZER-INCREMENTAL        6945.42     8401.59    12234.38    20174.86    16294.16    64050.41
OTHER INPUTS                  1034.55     1240.16      1872.33     2208.51      2321.02     8676.57
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          63305.94    40347.64    49659.35    59598.13    52297.90   265208.95
FOREIGN                32992.11    17350.66    21759.90    27170.11    19938.03   119210.80
LOCAL                  30313.83    22996.97    27899.45    32428.02    32359.87   145998.15



NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan
(N'000)
Bank Loan
As per Disbursement
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5       Total      US$ mn          Schedule
Bank Loan
Civil Works                          12,722.7   3,980.4   2,750.2       611.5      347.7   20,412.5       37.1             33.4
Plant, Vehicles, & Equip.            14,168.7   2,542.1   5,443.1   6,836.4   2,836.7   31,827.0          57.9             52.1
Borehole drilling                       -        1,477.6     889.5   1,175.6   1,076.4    4,619.1          8.4              7.6
International Salaries                2,827.2   3,118.6   3,133.8   3,191.2   2,904.0   15,174.8          27.6             24.8
Farm Inputs                             764.3      895.8   1,316.7   7,520.7   1,572.7    6,070.1         11.0              9.9
Subtotal                           30,482.9  12,014.5  13,533.3  13,335.4   8,737.4   78,103.5         142.0            127.8
FGN                                                                                                      Unallocated         14.2
142.0
Fertilizer Subsidy                    3,333.6   4,032.3   5,887.0   9,681.8   7,819.2   30,753.9
25% subvention                       13,830.9   7,673.6  8,883.7   9,296.4   8,410.2   48,094.8
Subtotal                           17,164.5  11,705.9  14,770.7  18,978.2  16,229.4   78,848.7
Farmer
Input Purchases                       1,867.9   2,248.2   3,344.0  4,629.1    4,275.6   16,364.8
KNSG                                   13,790.6  14,379.0  18,011.5 22,655.3   23,055.5   91,891.9
Incremental Project Costs              63,305.9  40,347.6  49,659.4 59,598.0   52,297.9  265,208.9
Additional Financing
KNSG - KASCO Equity                   3,000.0    -          -          -         -          3,000.0
KNSG - Cooperative Working Capital      315.0       43.0      58.0      48.0       29.8       493.8
KNSG - on-going Expenditure           2,791.4   3,186.9   3,540.8  3,971.2    4,455.6   17,945.9
Remaining Farm Inputs
FGN - Subsidy                         5,968.3  10,317.1  15,598.0 23,482.1   36,331.2   91,696.7
KNSG - Subsidy & Transport            4,486.1   8,337.8  13,178.1 20,692.1   32,839.3   79,533.4
Farmer - Inputs                       2,077.0   3,676.4   5,546.2  8,318.2   12,357.3   31,975.1
Total FGN                            23,132.8  22,023.0  30,368.7 42,460.3   52,560.6  170,545.4
Total KNSG                           24,383.1  25,946.7  34,788.4 47,366.6   60,380.2  192,865.0
Total Farmers                         3,944.9   5,924.6   8,890.2 12,947.3   16,632.9   48,339.9
09/03/80



- 65 -
Annex 2
NIGERIA                                 Table 4
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project  Cost and Financing  J
(Million N)
PYl         PY2          PY3          PY4         PY5           Total
Project Cost                                       63.3       40.3         49.7         59.6         52.3         265.2
less incremental fertilizer & farm inputs    8.0            9.6          14.1         22.4        18.6           72.7
Project cost, less inputs                          55.3       30.7         35.6         37.2         33.7         192.5
FGN subvention (25%)                            13.8         7.7          8.9          9.3         8.4           48.1
FGN subsidy on incremental fertilizer 2/         3,3        4.0           5.9          9.7         7.8           30.7
FGN  contribution to project cost               17.2       11.7          14.8         19.0        16.2           78.9
KNSG  share of project costs less inputs    11.2           11.2          13.1         14.4        16.3           66.2
KNSG  subsidy on incremental fertilizer 2/   2.6             3.2          4.9          8.2         6.8           25.7
KNSG contribution to project cost               13.8       14.4          18.0         22.6        23.1           91.9
Farmers' purchases, incremental inputs.-/    1.9            2.2           3.3          4.6         4.3          16.4
Total Nigerian Contribution                       32.9       28.3          36.1         46.2        43.6          187.2
IBRD Loan                                         30.5       12.0          13.5         13.3         8.7           78.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                63.3       40.3          49.7         59.6        52.3         265.2
Total Fertilizer Cost                             19.5       30.1          45.1         69.7        93.0         257.4
FGN                                              9.3       14.3          21.5         33.2        44.2         122.5
Farmer  2                                        2.9        4.0           5.5          7.8         9.5          29.7
KNSG  2/                                         7.3       11.7          18.1         28.8        39.4         105.3
Additional KNSG Financing                           6.1        3.2          3.6          4.0         4.5           21.5
KASCO Equity                                     3.0                             -                               3.0
Cooperatives' working capital                    0.3         -            0.1          0.1          -            0.5
On-going expenditure                             2.8        3.2           3.5          4.0         4.5          18.0
KNSG Share of Program Cost 3/                      14.0       14.4         16.6         18.4        20.8           84.2
Project Cost less inputs                       11.2       11.2          13.1         14.4        16.3          66.2
On-going expenditure                            2.8        3.2           3.5          4.0         4.5          18.0
KNSG Fertilizer Cost 2/                             7.3       11.7         18.1         28.8        39.4          105.3
KNSG: for KASCO and cooperatives                    3.3         -           0.1          0.1           -            3.5
Total KNSG  Cost                                   24.6       26.1         34.8         47.3        60.2          193.0
1/ Totals may not add due to rounding.
2/ Under current fertilizer subsidy arrangements.
3/ KNSG share of cost of all project-related activities, excluding fertilizer subsidies.
November 19, 1980



NIGERIA
KANO AG.RICULTURIAL DEVELOPFEXIP PROJECT
F05 7nLt flebqreimnts
Total                  F-rign
Unit             Ye-r 0                 Ye-r 1                  Year 2                  Year 3                 Ye-r 4                  Year 5                 P0 1-5                 foodsegR
1Inlte         Price         G Q           tCot  Cost                       0ty       Cot           Qty      Cot            w        Cost            t       Cost          Qtv       Cort           /.     A..o.t
Fertili-e
Coertipound - Ni'K 15-15-i5     1,000 7oO       160.5        25.8    4,140.9        45.2      7,254.4       6.0    9,790.5          82.7    13,273.4        120.1    19,276.0       145.8    23,400.9       454.8   72,995.4        100      72,995.4
CAN                                "            110.9         9.7 13,075.7           19.      2,195.8       28.1    3,116.3         38.9      4,314.0        50.9      5,644.8       60.8     6,742.7       198.5   22,013.6        101      22,013.6
BSSP                               "             93.4        11.4      , 064.5        5.8       541.7        9.6       896.6        14.1      1 316.9        19.1      1,783.9       23.9      2,232.3       72.5    6 771.4        100
Sob Tottl                                         46.9    6,281.4         70.8      9,992.1       98.7   13,803.4       135.7    18,906.3        190.1    26,704.7       230.5    32 375.9       725.8  101,780.4        100    101,780.5
Pot Chotto-                                      14.0                  656.6                    991.2                l,381.8                  1,899.8                 2,661.4                  3,227.0              10,161.2
...rsp-rt to ta..                               82.3                 3,5.                     58_26.8               8,t230                  11,1681                                          18,970.1               5973.           30      1792-
4,516.5                                        9,504.8                 13,067.9                 18,306.6                22,197.1               69,894.4                17,920.0
Feetilizer (Cost at Stot,
CL.pItjl                                                           10,797.9                 16,810.1               23,308.2                 31,972.2                45,011.3                 54,573.0              171,674.8               119,700.5
total Coats in Ratio
Han-dlig                                          1.0                   46.9                      70.8                  98.7                    135.7                    190.1                   230.5                  725.8
Teoroport                                        10.0                   469.0                   708.D                  987.0                  1,357.0                  1,901.0                2,305.0                 7,249.0        38 201
515.9                   778.8                1,035.7                  1,492.7                  2,091.1    !           2,535,5                 7,974.8                 2,174.7
Tottl Cost                                                          11,313.8                 17,588.9               24,393.9                 33,464.9                47,102.4                 57,108.5              179,649,6        68    121,875.2
AC noal Incre. ent                                                                            6,275.1                6,805.0                  9,071.0                 13,637.5                10,006.1               45,794.7        68      31,178.4
See-resstng _ ...o                               11.10                 -         1,404           15.6      2,031        22.5    2,784            30.9    3,554            39.5     4.299          47.7       14,074    156.2         70         109.3
Syothetlo Pyret roidol-arbaryl                    6.50                  -       78,000          507.0   165,000    1 072.5  305,000           1,982.5  455,000        2,957.5   590,000       3,835.0   1,593,000 10,354.5           70       7,248.0
1---t  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~2.                                               ,050203.4                                        2,997.0                 3,92.7                10,510.7                 7,357.3
Antoel Itcremneot                                                                               522.6                  572.4                    918.4                    983.6                   885.7                3,882.7        70       2,717.9
Agrlooltorol leplenentte
Sprayers                           each          30.0                              780           23.4      1,660        49.8    3,100            93.0    4,600           138.0     5,900         177.0       16.040    481.2         80         384.9
NettalLI  Bles                       "          300.0                              400          120.0        400       120.0       400          120.0       400          120.0        400        120.0        2,000    600.0         80         480.0
Sonsl-poeps                        ~~~~~~~~~~                                      ~~300.0  900  270.0  900  270.0     900          200         00270.0                   900        2700         4501300                9           9.
413.4                 439.8                    483 0                    57 8 0                  56700   2    43 1 20               o        r O
July 28, 1980



NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Chemicals and Other Farm Inputs Requirements
(Naira' 000)
PY  1         PY  2         PY  3         PY  4         PY  5            Total
Chemicals: (Incremental)
Base Cost                              522.6         572.4        918.4          983.6         885.7            3,882.7
Physical Contingency                    26.1          28.6         45.9           49.2          44.3              194.1
548.7         601.0        964.3        1,032.8         930.0            4,076.8
Price Contingency:
Foreign (70%)                            17.3          56.2        147.4          219.6         257.1              697.6
Local (30%                               12.3          47.4        122.1          196.7         245.5              624.0
29.6         103.6        269.5          416.3         502.6            1,321.6
Cost in current terms                   578.3         704.6      1,233.8        1,449.1       1,432.6            5,398.4
Agricultural Implements
Sprayers, Mettalic Bins and             413.4         439.8        483.0          528.0         567.0            2,431.2
hand pumps
Physical Contingency                     20.7          22.0         24.1           26.4           28.3             121.5
434.1         461.8        507.1          554.4          595.3           2,552.7
Price Contingency:
Foreign (80%)                            15.6          49.4         88.6          134.7         188.1              476.4
Local (20%)                               6.5          24.3         42.8           70.4         104.8              248.8
22.1          73.7        131.4          205,1         292.9              725.2
Cost in current terms                     456.2         535.5        638.5          759.5          888.2           3,277.9
Chemicals (Total Requirements)
Base Cost                               522.6       1,095.0      2,013.4        2,997.0       3,882.7           10,510.7
Physical Contingency                     26.1          54.7        100.7          149.8          194.1             525.4
548.7       1,149.7      2,114.1        3,146.8       4,076.8           11,036.1
Price Contingency
Foreign (70%)                            17.3         107.5        323.2          637.1       1,127.2            2,212.3
Local (30%)                              12.3          90.7        267.6          599.5       1,076.3            2,046.4_       1 
0.
29.6         198.2        590.8        1,236.6       2,203.5            4,258.7        S
Cost in current terms                     578.3       1,347.9      2,704.9        4,383.4       6,280.3           15,294.8
July 30, 1980



-68 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
(US$ million)
IBRD                                Current
Fiscal Year                         Quarter                Cumulative
FY 1982                               1.3                     1.3
3.7                    5.0
7.5                   12.5
12.0                   24.5
FY 198.3                             15.6                    40.1
9.0                   49.1
8.5                   57.6
8.3                   65.9
FY 1984                               8.5                    74.4
7.3                   81.7
5.7                   87.4
3.2                   90.6
FY 1985                               7.3                    97.9
5.3                  103.2
5.6                  108.8
3.3                  112.1
FY  1986                              8.5                   120.6
4.6                  129.2
4.8                  134.0
3.5                  137.5
FY 1987                               2.8                   140.3
1.7                  142.0
The closing date is December 31, 1986.
July 30, 1980



ANNEX 2
Table 8
- 69 -
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KANO AGRICULTURAL SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED
Trading and Profit & Loss Statement
(Naira'000)
Year 1            Year 2              Year 3             Year 4          Year 5
Sales:
Fertilizer                         2,910.4            4,041.2             5,546.8            7,804.4        9,464.4
Chemicals & Sprayers                  755.2           1,760.8             3,534.7            5,727.4        8,196.9
Agricultural Implements               538.1             593.5               644.5              701.3           763.8
4,203.7           6,395.5             9,726.0           14,233.1        18,425.1
State Gov't. Subsidy/Grant
Fertilizer (Net)                   6,391.5           10,308.3           15,938.2            25,359.4       34,685.9
Fertilizer Distribution               872.7           1,389.8             2,145.7            3,400.9        4,669.4
Grant to cover operating cost    1,919.5              2,557.1             3,188.3            3,557.6        3,966.1
9,183.7          14,255.2            21,272.2           32,317.9       43.321'4
Total Sales & State Gov't
Subsidy/Grant:                   13,387.4           20,650.7           30,998.2            46,551.0       61,746.5
Cost of Sales:
Fertilizer 1/                      9,301.9           14,349.5           21,485.0            33,163.8       44,150.3
Chemicals & Sprayers                  604.2           1,408.6            2,827.8             4,581.9        6,557.5
Agricultural Implements               430.3             474.8               515.6              561.0          611.0
10,336.4          16,232.9            24,828.4           38,306.7        51,318.8
Gross-Profit plus Subsidy & Grant   3,051.0              4,417.8             6,169.8            8,244.3        10,427.7
Truck Rental                             118.0             135.7               156.1              179.5           206.5
Interest                              _                     58.1               102.8              131.7          143.5
Total:                     3,169.0           4,611.6             6,428.7            8,555.5       10,777.7
Deduct:
Salaries & Wages                   1,349.4            1,720.8            2,130.3             2,339.1        2,568.0
Fertilizer Transport & Handling    872.7              1,389.8            2,145.7             3,400.9        4,669.4
Vehicle Operating Costs               357.2             407.1               450.6              505.0          566.7
General Charges                       101.4             207.5               256.8              310.3          367.8
Storage Rent                         111.5              221.7               350.6              403.2          463.6
Depreciation                          317.2             364.6               412.9              594.8          594.8
Total:                     3,109.4           4,311.5             5,746.9            7,553.3         9,230.3
Profit/(Loss)                             59.6             300.1               681.8            1,002.2        1,547.4
Cumulative                                59.6             359.7             1,041.5            2,043.7        3,591.1
1/  Fertilizer coat delivered Kano, (less FGN Subsidy) payable to FFSA.



ANNEX 2
- 70-                                    Table 9
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KANO AGRICULTURAL SUPPLY CO. LTD.
Balance-Sheet as on December 31
(Naira'OOO)
Year 1             Year 2             Year 3            Year 4             Year 5
Authorized Share Capital:
Shares of Ni, each           20,000.0           20,000.0            20,000.0         20,000.0            20,000.0
Issued 6hare Capital
Ordinary Shares of Ni each
fully paid                  4,200.0            4,200.0             4,200.0          4,200.0             4,200.0
Profit & Loss Account                  59.6              359.7            1,041.5          2,043.7             3,591.1
4,259.6            4,559.7            5,241.5          6,243.7             7,791.1
KNADP Current Account               5,602.7            7,611.1            9,838.0         12,320.3            12,320.3
9,862.3           12,170.8           15,079.5         18,564.0            20,111.4
Represented by:
Fixed Assets at Cost
Buildings & Staff
housing                    4,064.8            4,584.4             5,115.3          5,115.3             5,115.3
Vehicles & Equipment       1,077.8            1,249.9             1,425.2          2,334.8             2,334.8
5,142.6            5,834.3            6,540.5          7,450.1             7,450.1
Less:Aggregate Depreciation        317.2              681.8            1,094.7          1,689.5             2,284.3
4,825.4            5,152.5            5,445.8          5,760.6             5,165.8
Current Assets
Stocks                     1,883.4            3,343.4             5,142.9          7,168.5             8,072.9
Debtors                      484.3               857.1            1,0/.6          1,195.9             1,301.6
Cash                       2,669.2            2,817.8             3,393.2          4 439.O             5,571.1
5,036.9            7,018.3            9,633.7         12,803.4            14,945.6
9,862.3           12,170.8           15,079.5         18,564.0            20,111.4



ANNEX 2
- 71 -                            Table 10
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KANO AGRICULTURAL SUPPLY CO. LTD.
Statement of Cash-Flow
Year 1             Year 2             Year 3            Year 4              Year 5
Receipt of Cash from:
KNSG
Initial Equity Contribu-
tion                         3,000.0
Funds provided under
Project Costs 1/           5,602.7            2,008.4            2,226.9           2,482.3                -
Fertilizer Subsidy 2/       10,174.6           15,739.3           23,630.7          36,564.7             48,819.7
Grant to cover operating
Expenses                   1,919.5            2,557.1            3,188.3           3,557.6              3,966.1
20,696.8           20,304.8           29,045.9          42,604.6             52,78598
Farmers for Farm Inputs
& Truck Rental
Fertilizer Sales             2,910.4            4,041.2            5,546.8           7,804.4              9,464.4
Chemicals & Sprayers           755.2            1,760.8            3,534.7           5,727.4              8,196.9
Payment by Debtors
for Agric.implements
sold on credit                 53.8              278.8              506.8             734.7                801.6
Truck Rental                   118.0              135.7               156.1            179.5                206.5
3,837.4            6,216.5            9,744.4          14,446.0             18,669.4
Total                       24,534.2           26,521.3           38,790.3          57,050.6             71,455.2
Payments for:
Acquisition of fixed Assets
Buildings & Stiff
Housing 3/                   2,864.8              519.6               530.9             -
Vehicles & Equipment         1,077.8              172.1               175.3            909.6                -
3,942.6              691.7              706.2             909.6                -
Purchase of farm inputs:
Fertilizer                   9,301.9           14,349.5           21,485.0          33,163.8             44,150.3
Chemicals & Sprayers         2,012.8            2,827.8            4,581.9           6,557.5              7,205.4
Agricultural Implements        905.1              515.6               561.0            611.0                867.5
12,219.8           17,692.9           26,627.9          40,332.3             52,223.2
Transport & Handling of
Fertilizer Within Kano          872.7            1,389.8             2,145.7          3,400.9              4,669.4
Operating Expenses            1,919.5            2,557.1            3,188.3           3,557.6              3,966.1
Deposit of fertilizer
sale porceeds with
State Treasury               2,910.4            4,041.2            5,546.8           7,804.4              9,464.4
Total                21,865.0           26,372.7            38,214.9         562004.8              70,323.1
Net Cash-flow:                2,669.2              148.6               575.4          1,045.8              1,132.1
Cash Balance at end of
year                    2,669.2             2,817.8            3,393.2          4,439.0               5,571.1
Notes
1/   Funds provided for civil works, vehicles & equipment under Project Cost plus Bank loan funds allocated for
'farm-inputs'.
2/   Equivalent to 50% of fertilizer costs delivered Kano plus transport & handling cost within Kano.
3/   Exclusive of existing Storage facilities (estimated value: N1.2 million) to be transferred to KASCO
in exchange for shares.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Implications of Fertilizer and Subsidy Mechanism
1.        Although chemicals, seeds and farm implements are expected to be
sold to farmers on commercial terms (cost plus mark-up), fertilizers are
presently sold at a heavily subsidized price, fixed by FGN. The 1980 sales
price was N2.20 per bag (ff44/ton) for compounds and urea, and f1f.80
per bag (ff36/ton) for other types. The Federal Government, which procures
fertilizer centrally and delivers it to each state capital, had in 1979
informed the states that it would subsidize 50% of the total cost, delivered
to Kano, expecting KNSG to pay the balance between the other 50% and the
sales price to the farmer (up to 1979, the subsidy had been about 80%). The
KNSG has also to pay for transport from Kano to the selling and/or distribu-
tion point: village, farm-service center, etc. The following table shows the
share of each intermediary in the cost of, for example, one ton of NPK:
Breakdown of Participants Share in Fertilizer Costs
I    C & F in US$ per ton             $292
In Naira, at US$1.00 - NO.55   N161
Plus: Port charges and
transport to Kano          96
II                 Total               N257
FGN Subsidy                      N128               (50% of II)
Sales price to farmer              44               (17% of II)
Sub-total           N172
III    Balance of original cost
to be paid by KNSG               85               (33% of II)
IV                 Total               N257
V    Additional in-state transport
to be paid by KNSG            N 11
IV + V = VI    Total KNSG Subsidy                N 96 per ton



- 73 -
The cost breakdown for cheaper fertilizers would be different, since inland
transport costs remain the same and the federal subsidy is therefore lower.
This system is complicated, and an inadequate accounting system has made it
virtually impossible for the FGN to collect the states shares. Thus the
FGN has ended up paying the full cost including transportation to the state
capitals.
2.        The present central procurement procedure has also resulted in
disrupted supplies because FGN has to prefinance procurement. Consequently,
in years of financial constraints, budgetary allocations for fertilizer
procurement were curtailed and supply could not meet demand. In addition,
supplies often arrived late owing to ordering and handling delays at the
Central Fertilizer Unit (CFU). One result of these supply shortfalls has
been the creation of a black market, in which prices are much higher than
the subsidized official price.
3.        In view of the critical need to increase the supply and use of
fertilizer for food crop production, FGN has decided to replace the present
system of subsidies and central procurement. The project would require large
quantities of fertilizer (from 46,900 tons in 1980 to 230,500 tons in PY5),
and the supply of fertilizer is critical to the achievement of the project's
estimated benefits. FGN has decided to retain responsibility for fertilizer
procurement, and the Executive Council has approved the establishment of
the National Fertilizer Marketing Company (NFMC), which would be responsible
to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. Operated by expert management on
commercial grounds, it would coordinate national demand for fertilizer, take
up domestic output, procure the rest of Nigeria's requirements at international
prices, apply the applicable subsidies, and arrange for its distribution inside
Nigeria by quasi-government agencies (including state farm supply companies),
cooperatives, and the private sector.
4.        As fertilizer distribution would be the responsibility of the
State, KNSG would establish the Kano Agricultural Supply Company (KASCO) to
procure chemicals, agricultural machinery, implements and small equipment and
to set up a distribution network to enable most farmers to obtain these inputs
and fertilizer needs at a convenient place and time. All investments needed
by KASCO - storage areas for fertilizer, Farm-Service Centers, storage areas
for maize and other grain, vehicles and trucks - would be provided under the
project. KASCO would use hired trucks for instate distribution. KASCO's cost
recovery practices would be such as to ensure full cost recovery.



-74-                                       ANNEX 3
Table 1
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Fertilizer Requirements
Cost in Current Terms
(Naira '000)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5        Total
Tonnage ('000 tons)                           70.8         98.7       135.7      190.1       230.5          725.8
C&F Cost:                                 9,992.1    13,803.4   18,904.3   26,704.7   32,375.9          101,780.4
Physical contingency                       499.6        690.2      945.2    1,335.2    1,618.8          5,089.0
10,491.7    14,493.6   19,849.5   28,039.9   33,994.7         106,869.4
Price contingency                          472.1     1,936.3    4,335.1    8,515.7   13,427.9          28,687.1
10,963.8    16,429.9   24,184.6   36,555.6   47,422.6         135,55C.5
Local Costs up to Kano:
Port charges                               991.2     1,381.8    1,899.8    2,661.4    3,227.0          10,161.2
Transport to Kano                       5,826.8      8,123.0   11,168.1   15,645.2   18,970.1          59,733.2
6,818.0     9,504.8   13,067.9   18,306.6   22,197.1          69,894.4
Physical contingency                       340.9        475.2      653.4       915.3    1,109.9         3,494.7
7,158.9     9,980.0   13,721.3   19,221.9   23,307.0          73,389.1
Price contingency:
Foceign (26%)                            83.8        346.7       779.2    1,517.8    2,393.6          5,121.1
Local (74%)                              397.3     1,942.3    4,284.9    9,032.4   15,177.5          30,834.4
481.1     2,289.0    5,064.1   10,550.2   17,571.1          35,955.5
Total Local Cost up to Kano             7,640.0    12,269.0   18,785.4   29.772.1   40,878.1          109,344.6
Total Cost up to Kano                  18,603.8    28,698.9   42,970.0   66,327.7   88,300.7          244,901.1
Local Costs in Kano:
Transport and handling                     778.8     1,076.7    1,492.7    2,091.1    2,535.5           7,974.8
Physical contingency                        38.9         53.8        74.6      104.6       126.8          398.7
817.7     1,130.5    1,567.3    2,195.7    2,662.3           8,373.5
Price contingency:
Foreign (26%)                              9.6        39.3        89.0       173.4       273.4          584.7
Local (74%)                               45.4       220.0       489.4    1,031.8    1,733.7          3,520.3
55.0       259.3       578.4    1,205.2    2,007.1          4,105.0
Total Local Cost in Kano                   872.7     1,389.8    2,145.7    3,400.9    4,669.4          12,478.5
Total Cost ex Farm Service Center        19,6,45    30.088.7    4           5a115 27 _728=6  92A970:    257,379.6
Summary
Base Cost                                 17,588.9    24,384.9   33,464.9   47,102.4   57,108.5         179,649.6
Physical contingency                         879.4      1,219.2    1,673.2    2,355.1    2,855.5          8,982.4
Price contingency                          1,008.2     4,484.6    9,977.6   20,271.1   33,006.1          68,747.6
1,887.6     5,703.8   11,650.8   22,626.2   35,861.6          77,730.0
Total Cost                                19.476.5    30.088.7   45.115.7   692728.6   92,970.1         257,379.6



NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer - Financing
(N'000)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5         Total
Fertilizer ('000 tonnes)
Compound                                       45.2       61.0        82.7       120.1       145.8           454.8
CAN                                            19.8       28.1        38.9        50.9        60.8           198.5
BSSP                                            5.8         9.6       14.1        19.1        23.9            72.5
70.8       98.7       135.7       190.1       230.5           725.8
Price charged to Farmer (Naira per Ton)
Compound                                       44.0        44.0       44.0        44.0         44.0           44.0
CAN                                            36.0        36.0        36.0        36.0        36.0           36.0
BSSP                                           36.0        36.0        36.0        36.0        36.0           36.0
..           ............... In Naira'OOO .........................
Total Cost: (In current terms)               19,476.5   30,088.7   45,115.7   69,728.6   92,970.1          257,379.6
Financed as follows:
FGN (Subsidy - 50% of cost delivered        9,301.9   14,349.4   21,485.0   33,163.9   44,150.4         122,450.6  (48%)
Kano)
Farmer;
Compound                                    1,988.8    2,684.0    3,638.8    5,284.4    6,415.2          20,011.2
CAN                                           712.8    1,011.6    1,400.4    1,832.4    2,188.8            7,146.0
BSSP                                          208.8       345.6       507.6       687.6       860.4        2,610.0
2,910.4    4,041.2    5,546.8    7,804.4    9,464.4          29,767.2  (12%)
State Government:
Transport and handling costs in Kano          872.7    1,389.8    2,145.7    3,400.9    4,669.4           12,478.5
State Government Subsidy (Balance)          6,391.5   10,308.3   15,938.2   25,359.4   34,685.9           92,683.3
7,264.2   11,698.1   18,083.9   28,760.3   39,355.3         105,161.8  (40%)
TOTAL                                        19,476.5   30,088.7   45,115.7   69,728.6   92,970.1          257,379.6  (100%)
July 29, 1980



-76-                                         ANNEX 3
Table 3
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Fertilizer
Cost in Current Terms
(Naira '000)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5        Total
Tonnage ('000 tons)                            23.9        27.9        37.0        54.4        40.4         183.6
C&F Cost:                                   3,710.7    3,811.3    5,100.9    7,800.4    5,671.2          26,094.5
Physical contingency                        185.5       190.6       255.0       390.0       283.6       1,304.7
3,896.2    4,001.9    5,355.9    8,190.4    5,954.8         27,399.2
Price contingency                           175.3       534.6    1,169.7    2,487.4    2,352.2          6,719.2
4,071.5    4,536.5    6,525.6   10,677.8    8,307.0          34,118.4
Port Charges and Transport:
Cost up to Kano                           2,301.5    2,686.8    3,563.1    5,238.7    3,890.5          17,680.6
Physical contingency                        115.1       134.3       178.2       261.9       194.5         884.0
2,416.6    2,821.1    3,741.3    5,500.6    4,085.0          18,564.6
Price contingency
Foreign (26%)                              28.3        98.0       212.5       434.3       419.5       1,192.6
Local (74%)                               134.1       549.0    1,199.9    2,584.7    2,660.2          7,127.9
162.4      647.0    1,412.4    3,019.0    3,079.7          8,320.5
Total Local Cost up to Kano               Z,579.0    3,468.1    5,153.7    8,519.6    7,164.7          26,885.1
Total Cost up to Kano                     6,650.5    8,004.6    11,679.3  19,197.4   15,471.7          61,003.5
Local Costs in Kano:                          262.9       306.9       407.0       598.4       444.4       2,019.6
Physical contingency                         13.2        15.3        20.4        29.9        22.2         101.0
276.1       322.2      427.4       628.3       466.6       2,120.6
Price contingency
Foreign (26%)                               3.2        11.2        24.3        49.6        47.9         136.2
Local (74%)                                15.3        62.7       133.5       295.2       303.8         810.5
18.5        73.9      157.8       344.8       351.7         946.7
Total Local Cost in Kano                    294.6       396.1       585.2       973.1       818.3       3,067.3
Total Cost ex Farm Service Center           6,945.1    8,400.7   12,264.5   20,170.5   16,290.0          64,070.8
Summary
Base Cost:                                  6,275.1    6,805.0    9,071.0   13,637.5   10,006.1          45,794.7
Physical contingency                        313.8       340.2       453.6       681.8       500.3       2,289.7
Price contingency                           356.2    1,255.5    2,739.9    5,851.2    5,783.6          15,986.4
670.0    1,595.7    3,193.5    6,533.0    6,283.9         18,276.1
Total Cost                                  6,945.1    8,400.7   12,264.5   20,170.5   16,290.0          64,070.8



- 77                              ANNEX 4
Table 1
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Models For Upland Cultivation
Zones 1 and 3
- - - - - - - -  2.7 ha farm - - -
Traditional          Improved           Advanced
thaiy            (ha)                 (ha)
Sorghum/Millet              0.4                 -
Sorghum/Cowpeas             1.35                1.6                1.5
Millet/Cowpeas              0.3                  0.4                0.5
Millet/Groundnuts           0.6                  0.6                0.3
Maize/Cowpeas               0.05                 0.1                -
Maize                       -                   -                   0.2
Cotton                      -                   -                   0.2
Sorghum                 1.75                1.6                1.5
Millet                  1.30                1.0                0.8
Maize                   0.05                0.1                0.2
Cowpeas                 1.70                2.1                2.0
Groundnuts              0.6                 0.6                0.3
Cotton                  -                   -                  0.2
Zones 2 and 4           - - - - -  3.0 ha farm - - - -  -
Traditional(ha)       Improved (ha)
Sorghum/Millet/Cowpeas      0.7                 1.0
Sorghum/Groundnuts          0.2                  -
Millet                      1.3                   '
Millet/Cowpeas              0.7                  1.7
Millet/Groundnuts           0.1                  0.3
Sorghum                 0.9                 1.0
Millet                  2.8                 3.0
Cowpeas                 1.4                 2.7
Groundnuts              0.3                 0.3
June 13, 1980



ANNEX 4
_78_                       Table 2
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets for Upland Cultivation
I. Zones 1 and 3: - 2.7 ha _
Traditional   Improved   Advanced
Income                             N           660           1473       1580
Expenses                                        90            333         401
Hired Labor 2/                                90            141         153
Fertilizer  3/                                              154         206
Chemicals  4/                                                38         42
Net Farm income                                570           1140       1179
Return per ha                      N           211            422         437
Return per labor-day               N             2.10           2.81        2.99
Annual per capita income5/         N            75            150         155
($136)          (273)      (282)
1/  Farm models, related to total area under cultivation, by crop, are given
in the Project File, Working Paper C2. All amounts expressed in 1981 N.
2/  30, 47 and 51 man-days per year, respectively, mainly for weeding.  Family
labor availability assumed at 50 man-days per month for strenuous work, 83
man-days per month for other work.
3/  At unsubsidized prices of N13.50 per bag.  Under existing fertilizer subsidy
policy, net farm incomes for improved and advanced cultivation would increase
to N1271 and N1343, respectively, and per capita income to N167 and N177.
4/  At unsubsidized prices.  Application of spray and seed dressing.
5/  Based on average family size of 7.6 persons.



- 79 -                        ANNEX 4
Table 3
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets for Upland Cultivation
1/
II.  Zones 2 and 4 -3 ha-
Traditional         Improved
Income                                 N             441              1,145
Expenses                               N             126                227
Hired Labor                          N             126                 81
Fertilizer                           N                                101
Chemicals -/                         N                                 45
Net Farm Income                        N             315                918
Return per ha                          N             105                306
Return per labor-day                   N               1A13               2.24
Annual per capita income -/            N              41                121
($75)            ($219)
1/ The production of this farm under traditional practices yields only about
1,200Kg of grain per year, or about 72% of the hypothetical nutritional
requirements for the "average" household of 7.6 persons. Additional re-
quirements are met from vegetables, eggs, poultry and small livestock, which
are owned by most families, and from cash purchases financed by remittances
from relatives who have left the farm.
2/ 42 and 27 labor-days, respectively. Improved system spreads increased labor
requirements more evenly over the cropping season, largely due to better
and more timely planting and weeding operations.
3/ Owing to the shortage of cash income, farmers traditionally meet this need
by working together on each other's farms.
4/ At unsubsidized prices averaging N13.50 per bag. Under existing fertilizer
subsidy policy, net farm incomes for improved cultivation would increase
to N1,004, and annual per capita income to N132.
5/ For spray and seed dressing. At unsubsidized prices.
6/ Based on average family size of 7.6 persons.



NIGERIA
ti KANO AGRrCULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
L'r Hectare return& for Fadama Gultivation
Gross                              Fertilizer                  Chemicals            Irr-sation
Returns,                                                                           Pump                 Material    Total                   Net Return (N)
Yield   Price       _       Labord*y   Seed        Quatity   Cost N i         Type       Cost (N)  Hours    Costs          Cost        Cost       Returu/ha         Return/labor day
tons/ha) (N/ton)    (N)                                 8
Rice           2.5      256        640      143       29.30      200 NPK       94.50         -           -                               15.00       138.80          501                (2.98)
+ 25 for               + 150 CAN
manual
irrigation
Sorghum        0.7      320        224       50        4.20      100 NPK       54.00         _           -          -          -         15.00        73.20          151                 (3.02)
+ 100 CAN
0.
Tomato        25        210      5,250      578      150.00      300 NPK      148.50      Spray-/        42.90               164.00      65.00      570.40         4,680                 (8.10)
+ 250 CAN
Wheat          2.4      310        744      115       35.00      200 NPK       94.50                -               140      114.80      15.00      399.00           345                 (3.00)
+ 150 cAN
1/ 3 applications    at 1.5 kg/ha, @ N7.80/Kg, depreciation on ULV sprayer and batteries N7.80
2/ Unsubsidized
June 3, 1980



-87,-
ANNEX S
T.ble I
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL D2Z'ELOPMNiT PROJECT
Upland Cultivation:  increnmotal Production (000t) nd Value at Border Pric.8 ('000 1981 8)
____       _ 1                                     rl    2  Tow 3      Yer 4                Yer 5- Year 9           Year 10 -Year 25
Vale                   _           Value      *titQ                                Value      Oantity      Value     Quantity     Value
U1_IMM           10.4     1,716.0       37.0      6.179.0        75.25   12.717.25      118.75   20.306.25      167.75   28,853.0      167.75   29.188.5
,one 1       9.0                    30.4                     52.9                    74.9                    99.9
Zon  2       0.2      (165)          1.2      (167)           2.2   (1I9)             3.2   (171)            4.2   (172)                    (174)
Zone 3       0.6                     4.2                     17.95                   36.45                  56.45
Zone 4       0.6                     1.2                      2.2                     4.2                     6.2
illt,             7-35     1,293.6      19.95     3.55L.1        36.45    6,561.0        52.95    9,636.9        66.45   12,093.9       66.45   12,293.25
Zope 1;      6.0                    12.25                    19.75                   27.25                   29.75
Zoe 2        0.6      (176)          1.6      (178)           4.6   (1SO)             5.6   (182)            8.6   (182)                    (185)
Zone 3       b.75                    4.5                      9.5                    14.5                   19.5
Zon 4                                1.6                      2.6                     5.6                    8.6
melee            4.8        902.4       14.8      2,797.2        28.35    5,414.85       44.3    8,505.6         59.7   11,522.1        59.7   11,641.5
Zone 1       4.8                    10.4                     19.55                   29.15                   39.35
Zone 2                (188)                   (I89)                  (191)                   (192)                  (193)                   (195)
Zone 3                               4.4                      8.8                    15.15                  20.35
Zone 4
Compum           4-4      1.518         17.26     5.954.7        36.10   12,454.5        58.6   20.217.0        78.22   26.985.9        78.22   26.985.9
Zone 1       3.8                    12.4                     23.94                   35.72                  44.98
Zone 2       0.6      (345)          1.0      (415)           1.6   (415)             2.0   (415)            2.4   (415)                    (415)
Zone 3                               2.66                     8.36                   17.48                  25.84
Zone 4                               1.2                      2.2                     3.4                    5.0
Groudnut.        2.45       921.2         j6      2,541.0        10.0    3,940.0         11.95    4.815.85       15.4    6,344.8        15.4    6,683.6
Zo7  1       2.2                     3.95                     4.9                     5.5                    6.7
Zoe 2        0.25     (376)          0.75     (385)           1.0   (394)             1.5   (403)            1.75   4412)                 1 (434)
Zone 3                               1.2                      2.4                     3.25                   3.65
Zoe4                                 0.7                      1.7                     1.1                    3.3
Cotton            1.22      507.5        1.64       731.4          .96      933.0         2.78    1,406.7         3.1    1,661.6         3.1     1,739.1
Zo  1        0.41                    0.82                     0.98                    1.39                   1.55
(416)                  (46)                   (476)                   (506)                   (536)                  (551)
Zone3        0.4                     0.82                     0.98                    1.39                   1.55
Total Value               6,858.7                 21,754.4               42,020.6                64,868.3                87,461.3               88,531.8
!2S: Te fiures in parenthees are eonoic coSts in 1981 Neira.
July 28, 1980



NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJBCT
Fadama Cultivation: Incremental Production (tons) and Value ('000 1981 N1)
YEAR 1                        YEAR 2                        YEAR 3                          YEAR 4                      PY5 - YEAR 9                 YEAR 10 - YEAR 25
Quantity    Price   Value   Quantity   Price   Value   Quantity   Price    Value    Quantity Price                Valut    Quantity    Price    Value    Quantity    Price    Value
Onions 2/                2,400      (135)              9,800    (135)                26,100    (1,35)-              58,600   (135)                  75,600    (135)                 75,600    (135)
389                          1,318                         3,512                          6,809                           10,185                          10,185
Tematoes 2/              1,500      (124)               7,650    (124)               15,200    (142)                26,400   (142)                  40,000    (142)                 40,000    (142)
186                            948                         1,883                          3,270                            4,955                           4,955
Other Vegetables 1/      1,200      C258)               5,600    (258)               t1,200    (258)                19,800   (258)                  28,000    (258)                 28,000    (158)
309                          i,443                         2,886                          5,103                            7,216                           7,216
Rice                       420      (150)               2,028     (155)               4,736     (160)                8,460   (165)                  14,750      (170)               14,750     (175)
63                           314                           758                           1,396                             2,508                          2,581
Wheat                      120      (218)                 391     (219)                 722    (220)                  1,113    (221)                 1,360     (222)                 1,360     (248)
26                            86                            159                            246                               302                             337
Sorghum                    450      (165)              1,800      (167)               4,590    (169)                 8,880    (171)                 14,550    (172)                 14,550    (174)
85                            301                           776                          1,518                            2,503                            2532
Maize                      245      C188)               1,500    (189)                3,445    (191)                 6,160    (192)                 10,100      (19V                10,100    (195)
46                           284                            658                          1,183                            1,949                           1,970
1,104                         4,694                        10,632                         1l,525                            29,618                         29,776
1/ Other vegetables eg. peppers U150/4 kg = W374/t x.69 -258/t
/ Onions, Tomtoes: Preparation report Annex 3, End Table 2 x.69



NIGERIA
KA4NO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Coats
('000 1981 N)
PYl                      PY2                        PY3                       PY4                       PY5                     Years 6-10             Years 11-25
Foruin       Local       Foreian       Local       Foreign       Local      Foreign       Local       foreign       Local       Foreign        Local      Formin         Local
Incremental Hired Pars Labor                      -          740.8          -         2,647.8         -        5,097.6         -        7,547.4          -        10,500           -         10,500          -        10,500
Fertilizer  /                                   4,029.0   2,824.1        7,319.0      5,102.2      12,885.1    8,466.0      20,214.8  13,641.3        26,394.1   17,469.7       26,394.1    17,469.7    26,738.2   17,661.6
Civil Works                                     9,220.3  13,857.9        2,655.4      3,983.1       1,641.2    2,461.8         325.6      488.4           165.0      247.5         -             -            -           -
Vehicles and equipe,ent                        12,916.3   3,646.9        1,869.0        837.1       3,435.1    1,283.2       4,296.5   1,339.0           983.4       516.0         -             -            -           -
International Staff                             2,047.3      227.5       2,189.0        243.3       2,189.0      243.3       2,041.6      226.9        1,714.6       190.6          171.5         19.1       -            _
Local Staff                                       -        5,145.0          -         7,008.2         -        8,395.0         -        8,893.0           -        9,280.4                    5,210           -         1,Z42.0
Operating Costs                                 1,692.6   3,068.7        2,412.7      3,942.4       2,774.6    4,589.1       2,682.8   5,033.8          2,861.7    4,822.0       1,430.8      2,834.7         286.2       566.9
Other Inputs                                      384.1      164.6         804.8        344.9       1,479.8      634.2       2,202.8      944.1         2,853.8    1,223.1        2,853.8      1,223.1     2,853.8    1,223.1
Implements                                        347.4       86.8         369.4         92.4         405.7      101.4         443.5      110.9          476.3       119.1         476,3         119.1       476.3        119.1
Total Base * Physical Contingencies            30,637.1  29,762.3       17,619.3    24,203.2       24,810.5   31,271.6      32,207.6  38,224.8        35,428.9   44,368.4       31,326.5    37,375.7    30,354.5   31,112.7
Adjustment by conversion factors                   -      -4,438.7          -        -2,796.7         -       -3,015.4          -      -2,896.1           -       -2,787.8          -         -1,599.0        -          -501.7
Total Economic Costs                           30,637.1  25,323.6       17,619.3    21,405.5       24,810.5   28,256.2      32,207.6  15,328.7         35,428.9   41,580.6      31,326.5    35,776.7    30,354.5   30,611.0
S
1/  The  upply standard conversion factor, 0.83, has been applied to all local costs, except fertilizer (see Working Paper CIll, Table 7) and incraeental labor (Nl.50 par labor-day derived fros, economic                     q
returns in traditional culttvation, sas Working Paper Ct1, Table 1). Conversion factors for transport and conatruction are also 0.83.
2i  For increantalqtatlitia  aver Yer 0. For economic costs, sea Working Paper Cl1, Table 11.  (SSP: 1188/ton - 1197/ton;  CAN: 11205/ton - 1243/ton; 83K 11246/ton).
July 29, 1980



-8.4-
Annex 5
Table 4
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Economic Analysis 1/
('000 1981 N)
Benefits                      Agricultural   Net Benefits
Upland Crop    Fadama Crop                     Development    Excluding
Cultivation 2/ Cultivation 3/ Forestry 4/    Costs 5/          Forestry
PYl             6,858.7         1,104.0        -   158         - 55,960.7      - 47,904.0
PY2            21,754.4         4,694.0        -   259         - 39,024.0     - 12,575.6
PY3            42,020.6        10,632.0        -   310         - 55,413.6      -  2,761.0
PY4            64,888.3        19,525.0        -   296         - 67,536.3        16,877.0
PY5            87,461.3        29,618.0        -   273         - 77,029.2        40,050.1
Year  6        87,461.3        29,618.0        -   302         - 72,179.3        44,900.0
Year  7        87,461.3        29,618.0        -   266         - 70,883.3        46,196.0
Year  8        87.461.3        29,618.0        -   149         - 69,577.3        47,502.0
Year  9        87,461.3        29,618.0            175         - 68,281.3        48,798.0
Year 10        88,531.8        29,776.0            399         - 67,103.6        51,204.2
Year 11        88,531.8        29,776.0            556         - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 12        88,531.8        29,776.0            566         - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 13        88,531.8        29,776.0            574         - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 14        88,531.8        29,776.0            581         - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 15        88,531.8        29,776.0            589         - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 16        88,531.8        29,776.0            196         - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 17        88,531.8        29,776.0            444         - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 18        88,531.8        29,776.0            620         - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 19        88,531.8        29,776.0            627         - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 20        88,531.8        29,776.0            637         - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 21        88,531.8        29,776.0            647         - 60,965.5       57,342.3
Year 22        88,531.8        29,776.0            656         - 60,965.5       57,342.3
Year 23        88,531.8        29,776.0                        - 60,965.5       57,342.3
Year 24        88,531.8        29,776.0                        - 60,965.5        57,342.3
Year 25        88,531.8        29,776.0                        - 60,965.5       57,342.3
Net Present Value 6/ N228.6 mn
Economic Rate of Return: 36%
1/  See also Working Paper Cll and Chapter IX.
2/  Annex 4, Table 1.
3/ Annex 4, Table 2.
4/ See Working Paper C7. Benefits are net (Working Paper C7, Table 5C x 0.69).
Economic Rate of Return: 12%.
51  Annex 4, Table 3.  Totals may differ because of rounding during computer processing.
6/ At 11% opportunity cost of capital-.
7/29/80



-85 -
ANNEX 5
Table 5
'NIGERIA
KAN0 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
- Sensitivity AAnalysis 1/
Net Present Value NPV at 11%: W228.6 million
Economic Rate of Return: 36%
Charges in key variables to yield zero NPV (11% ERR)
30% drop in benefits,
44%-increase in costs
339% increase in shadow wage rate (from N1.50/day to N5.10/day)
50% drop in maize, millet, sorghum and wheat prices
63% drop in adoption rate (70% to 26%)
34% drop in PY5-Year 25 benefits
Change in Variable                         NPV (N million)
25% drop in price of NPK, PY5-Yr.25 2/             263.5 (+15%)
One year delay in benefits                         146.5 (-36%)
10% increase in benefits                           303.5 (+33%)
1/ Excluding Forestry, Rural Water Supplies, Consultancies. Per WP Cll.
2/ The impact on NPK prices in Nigeria of the Onne Fertilizer Plant,
projected to start production in 1985, cannot be predicted with certainty.



- 86 -                                     6
NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Data and Related Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Kano State Integrated Rural Development Project Preparation Report.
October 1979.
C.   Working Papers
Cl    Agricultural Background and Potential
C2    Marketing
C3    Input Supply
C4    Cooperatives and Credit
C5    Feeder Roads
C6    Rural Water Supply
C7    Forestry
C8    Training and Staff Development
C9    Monitoring and Evaluation
C10   Cost Estimates
Cll   Economic Analysis



NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Internal Organization
DEPUTY GOVE 
STATE PROGRAM MANAGEMENT UNIT
II                                                                                    I
ADMINISTRATION                          FINANCIAL CONTROL                            LAND USEPLANNING                     MONITORING AND EVALUATION
CHIEF ADMIN OFFICER                     CHIEF FINAOFFICERFFICER)                       (CHIEF L.U OFFICER)                   CHIEF EVALUATION OFFICER)
MA G AD                                      I AGRICULTURAL SERVICES                                   MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT                                ENGINEERING
MARKETING AND                                    CHIEF TECHNICAL OFFICERI                                     ICHIEF TRAINING OFFICERI                          (CHIEF ENGINEER)
AIPIIEII    F  SEFD~SEIR  TAF                                    R-SRVCEMCHNIA
RESEARCH    MULTIPLICATION                                   TRAINING             TAI(
ZONAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
~~~~~ M   A     ~     ~    ~    EU1  AAE
ADMINISTRATNI NG ON FICER                            CHIEF TECHNICALOFFICER
CHIEF TRAIN)INDGOFFICER                              CHIEF TECHNICAL OFFiCER
FSUBJECT MATTER                                            ROADS AND                   MECHANICAL
TRAI|ING                 TRAINING                  SPECIALISTS                DEILVEI N                                               WORKSHOP
L- -  -~ -  --            LG LEVELE 
DISTRICT LEVEL             
AGR.C.         AGRIC              AGRIC.         AGRIC.
SUFT.4P         SUPT.              SUPT.          SUPT.
AGR             AGRIC.             AGRIC          AGRIC.
|ASST. (5) ||ASST. 18)I            ASST. 181      ASST 151 
FARMERS
11 Chefn Enginneteriould Se a Crodl Enginser, and would hawe tesaonsibilaRy 1ot Roads and Bulzdings as well as ooetall resEonsiblito
2Z Zonal Offelagnntn Oicemr to appoinn nsth.r Roads Engineer or Mechanical Engin-,r as Chief Engineer
1 In early years If Proje.t, some posItions will be staffed by Highen Agric. SperIlntendents
VI In ::el, Feats of Pnoiaet some PBsitions -ill bF staetd b- Senmor Agrro. Assistants.
51 In nVely ye3rs of Projett, some tPEsii-s will ba etafted by F ield Oew sane1



NIGERIA
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Kano Agricultural Supply Company Limited (KASCO)
Organization Chart
BOARD OF I l
DIRECTORS
MANAGING
DIRECTOR
IrI
COMMERCIAL                       FINANCE              ADMIN              INTERNAL
ASST. COMMERCIAL              DIVISION                       DIVISION            DIVISION               AUDIT
MANAGERZ/         _       MANAGER              -        CONTROLLER           COMPANY              INTERNAL
MANAGER         CONTROLLER           SECRETARY             AUDITOR
1            ZONAL                        FINANCE              ASSETS                AUDIT
STORAGE                MANAGEMENT                     ACQUISITION]           REGISTER           SUPERVISOR
SUPERINTENDENT               MANAGER
l  l   -|    PAYROLL   |  |PERSONNEL      AUDIT
TEAM
~~[          _ I    _|         ~~BAN K     
ACCOUNTSSECU~R ITY
STORAGE
ADVISERS
|BOUGHT/SOLD
_  LE DGER
COMMERCIAL
SUPERVISION
SUPERVISOR3J                     DEBTOR
CONTROL
MANAGER/COOP                        COST
SECRETARY                4  ACCOUNTANT]
-  --  - ~Technical Supervision
CASHIER
NOTES:
il The Board of Directors consists of the Advisor to the Governor on Agriculture and Rural Development (Chairman), Permanent
Secretary, MANR, the Chief Registrar of Cooperatives, one representative from each of the Kano State Ministries of Finance and
Rural and Community Development, two Farmers, the Program Manager, KNAPMU, and the Managing Director, KASCO.
v The Assistant Commercial Manager would be primarily responsible for input transport and distribution.
/ About 19 Commercial Superintendents and 10 Supervisors to be hired. Deployment will be related tD
LGAs and the concentration of FSCs in each zone. Fadama areas will require greater supervisory input.
December 1980
World Bank - 21828



I B R D 15065R
'M~~~~~~~~~~~~rA
U   "E                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGERIA
''i         t~~~A     r~~       IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
Completed and Appraised
B  -                 ~~~~~Agricultural Development Projects
__COMPLIEID:
Pantue (Loan 092-UNi)
Goaao(Loa- 1099- UNI)
G-abe (Loas1164- UNI(
SOKOTO STATE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                                                                                                  EITIG
B  0   R   N   0                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lafin (Loan1454-UNI)
0   K  ,Q:  KAN           AICJ 5                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Apoagha lL.on1455-UNII
EAISUGUnI                                  Bide (Loan 1667 - UNI1)
Ionic Loon 1668-UNI(
SORT/C  SlATE                                         G~~~~~~~~~~~~yo North (Loan IBSaUN1I
Ekati Aokok (Loan1B54-UINII
B-rohi State
Rena State
.4APPRAISEO:
i                                                                                                                                                           t                  K.d..o Stt.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oht  tr
RM   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                                       es                                   1UNDER PREPARATION:
mA..b State
4.  N                                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Beedel Nerth
Ri.ers store
Ir                                P L A T E A U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTraining Projects:
"N.  "1j    ~Agr"Ict.ael end Reral
FEDEPAL                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mana.gement Training lestiutet
w  ag,  CAPITAI  I                                                                                                                                  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Loan 1719%UNI)
q;                                                                                                                                                           b             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tree Crop Projects:
EXISTING
4!                     ~~~~~~Cocon I ( Loan 764- UN I)I and
[ ]  Cocoa Ir (Loan 1045 -UNI)
MAK                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ondo Gil Palm (Lo..nt1192- UNI(
Z1                                       Bende1 Gil Polo (Loan118 tB-UNI(
Ion GOl Palo (Loan 1I9PPUN))
A.111.                                                           Al I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rvr  treGlPlloa  55UI
I ~~n              MOTh    PorentF-p (Loan,1679PUNI(
APPRAISED'
too erAs'  u"nraatOnOr                          ~~~~~~Cros  River State Estat (Oil Pe1i,,I
ceneaaI/Z~aeu4e   -   ot  S    ,.no4-n,ii"'ioIrrigation  Project:
rO      E$iesEe             ,ae                     Ron (Loano1 10O-UNl()
S  (  uani  (  .~~~~~~                    sniessEs     5O55t%5~~~~~~~  i(    j0'Tir"'            I ~~~~~Livestock Development Project:
(Loon 1091 -UN()
g,    '4~~o.s
A SGeak                   EXISrING:
ruonniA  tt            U       ~~~~~~National Livestock Production Co. Ranches
sty ~.. u~ r'  A        NortkE-atern Co Ranches
U       Animal / P-aror In-eatigai  Centers
O            adE           [3 ]        Graing Re Frcs- oln Group Ranche
Bight   of    Bonn                                                                           OOsrae-ggrJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A






I B   G         B       *                           1 0   ,8./   rIR
/.7; /A  Z            RA R I HonoA    r
:,                                                 ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~~~GUM'A DELA
N                                                                               P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roj oN l BoG daM e
0  KI
f                                                                        A   H                               5 A~~~~~~~~~~ ranngCntr
N   '3  '               A    I                ,v,                                           edeal.! Cla  1 AGRoa          I                 LeAuRIs                          TURAL  DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
\  bv5t$zKvM,,'013                                                  Js.
x \s    P   \            / Fi                  I S 0                                                                                                            \ >                                          I~~~~~~~~I L
VOOS t ;K^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                                                                         MILE                      PrnS t4stt9t0 DetZnlHoqoe
<e   I             ~o>                                                                                  -. - '--  i -  Railway             _-   Local Covernnment Area Bouodarbes
1t olo >,                                                                                                   Dm                                                ternatianal Boundary                                                 womv c  ev vvin,5,v.ro vift
C  e r    <             / ~~~~~cvsMEtCtO Or  <rfto'R                                                                                                                                                                         vvrnei :es.,,, _= * _inp
4ra5t!   t2      / - >_RmsbdorlZ~     ~Ant 00flll                                                                                                                                                                        Wvieda,suiv.et,rmo s
4r   i'    --fmerbarmclRf~~~vurnier                                                                                                                                                                                            om.imevfehroei



