Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3020-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN
KANO STATE
April 13, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Naira (N)
US$1            =       NO.55
Ni              =       US$1.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric (m) ton      =      0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)        =      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      =      0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ADPs        -   Agricultural Development Projects
ASP         -   Advanced Service Package
BSP         -   Basic Service Package
FPP         -   Food Production Plan
KASCO       -   Kano Agricultural Supply Company
KNAPMU      -   Kano Agricultural Program Management Unit
KNARDEC     -   Kano State Agriculture and Rural Development
Executive Committee
KNSG        -   Kano State Government
LGC         -   Local Government Councils
ZDC         -   Zonal Development Committee
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -    December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - KANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:           Kano State of Nigeria
Amount:                US$142 million
Terms:                 Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:       The Federal Government would onlend the full
amount of the loan to the Kano State Government
on the same terms as the Bank loan. The State
Government would carry the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   The project would assist in increasing food crop
production and improving rural incomes on a state-
wide basis. It would consist of a package of farm
support services and physical infrastructure designed
to benefit about 600,000 small-holder farm families
in Kano State, of whom about 70 percent are expected
to adopt improved farm practices. Support services
would include improved farm and water management
practices, extension advice, crop protection measures,
weed control, improved seeds, fertilizer, and the
provision of small-scale pump irrigation on the
fadama lands. Forest nurseries would be established
for on-farm and commercial planting programs.
Physical infrastructure would include constructing
about 1,440 km of feeder roads, drilling about 1,000
boreholes, rehabilitating about 1,000 wells, and
establishing project headquarters and farm service
centers. Consultant services would be engaged to
assist in recruiting a project management team and to
carry out studies of adaptive research, intermediate
technology, rural water supply planning, training and
staff development, and the project's socio-economic
impact. Since the basic agricultural package is
simple and well tested, the project does not involve
unusual risks. Neverthless, the adequate and timely
financing of the project, its proper staffing, and an
efficient input supply system will be of great impor-
tance to the success of the project, and appropriate
assurances have been received.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                Local         Foreign        Total
-----------US$ Millions----------
Farm and Crop Development
Extension                                    47.8           18.4           66.2
Seed Multiplication and Applied Research    5.7              1.8            7.5
Incremental Farm Inputs                      29.6           65.1           94.7
Forestry                                      4.0            2.7            6.7
Irrigation                                    2.7            2.2            4.9
Subtotal                                   89.8           90.2          180.0
Civil Works
Road Construction                            30.2           23.6           53.8
Rural Water Supply                           11.5           12.7           24.2
Engineering Services and Workshop            16.6           11.8           28.4
Subtotal                                   58.3           48.1          106.4
Support Services
Management                                   12.7            9.5           22.2
Staff Training                               16.0           10.2           26.2
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Planning          7.1            2.9           10.0
Farm Service Company                         19.6            7.5           27.1
Marketing and Cooperative Development         5.7            2.3            8.0
Subtotal                                   61.1           32.4           93.5
Less Preproject Expenditure                 (24.2)                        (24.2)
Total Base Costs                          185.0          170.7          355.7
Physical Contingencies                       11.7           10.5           22.2
Price Contingencies                          68.7           35.6          104.3
Total Project Costs (including
taxes and duties of US$28.0 million)        265.4          216.8          482.2
Financing Plan:                              Local         Foreign          Total
-------    US$ Millions----------
IBRD                                            -           142.0          142.0
Federal Government                            87.3           56.0          143.3
Kano State Government                        148.3           18.8          167.1
Farmers                                       29.8              -           29.8
265.4         216.8          482.2



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
--------US$ Millions-----------------
Annual                          24.5    41.4    24.7    21.5    25.4         4.5
Cumulative                      24.5    65.9    90.6   112.1   137.5   142.0
Rate of Return:                 36 percent (excluding rural water supply
component)
Staff Appraisal Report:         3089a-UNI, dated April 6, 1981






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN KANO STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$142 million to
help finance a project for agricultural development in Kano State of Nigeria.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 9.6 percent per annum. The Federal Government would relend the
total amount of the loan to the Kano State Government on the same terms as the
Bank loan. The State Government would carry the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last Country Economic Memorandum on Nigeria (Report 2428-UNI)
distributed to the Executive Directors was dated June 19, 1979. An updated
Country Economic Memorandum, covering the country's short-term developments,
is scheduled for distribution in late April 1981. An economic report examin-
ing the long-term economic prospects and policy options facing Nigeria is
being prepared and will be circulated later this year. Country data are
attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        The present civilian Government, headed by President Alhaji Shehu
Shagari, assumed office on October 1, 1979, following 13 years of military
rule. The Government's priorities and policies are set out in the recently
issued Outline of the Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85). Rural
development, increased food production, education, and low-cost housing are
focal points of the new administration's program. The desire for decent-
ralization, and the fact that in many states the opposition parties are in
power, constitute a formidable challenge for the Nigerian leadership in
successfully implementing a national development strategy.
Recent Economic Developments
4.        Although oil output rose rapidly in the early 1970s, reaching a peak
of 2.3 million barrels a day (mbd) in 1974, it was only with the quadrupling
of the oil price in 1973-74 that Nigeria's financial situation changed funda-
mentally. The dramatic rise in the oil income occurred at a time when Nigeria
ranked among the world's poorest countries and had a predominantly agricultural
economy, with manufacturing accounting for less than 10 percent of GDP.
5.        The Government's first concern, as reflected in the Third National
Development Plan (1975-80), was to use the new wealth to modernize the country.
The four-fold increase in public revenue allowed initiation of a vast investment



- 2 -
program, and generated a growth rate of 7 percent a year. Public investment
was concentrated on developing transport and communication networks, expanding
education, and setting up heavy industry. But the large public expenditures
also caused high rates of inflation in the early years and wastage of resources.
In fact, expenditures rose much faster than income, and within two years
deficits reappeared on both the budget and the balance of payments. These
developments brought the country to the brink of financial crisis in 1978.
6.        With the successive increases in the oil price over the past two
years - from US$14 to US$39 per barrel - Nigeria's financial position has once
again greatly improved. In 1980, export earnings and government revenue are
estimated at about 2-1/2 times the level in 1978. Federal Government expendi-
tures in the budgets of 1980 and 1981 have been allowed to rise roughly in
line with the increase in revenue. The composition of capital expenditures
proposed for 1980 and 1981 reflects the new Government's increasing emphasis
on agriculture, housing, water supply, and road maintenance.
7.        Nigeria's pattern of economic growth over the past few years has
displayed many of the characteristics associated with the development of other
oil exporting countries. High rates of domestic inflation, combined with an
appreciating value of the naira, meant that domestic costs of production rose
relatively to foreign costs. At the same time, costs in such purely domestic
sectors as construction and services (where supplies could not be augmented
through imports) rose at a more rapid pace than costs in the tradeable sectors.
Consequently, agriculture and manufacturing were placed at a disadvantage
vis-a-vis both foreign produced goods (which became relatively cheaper) and
purely domestic sectors (which became more profitable). In the agricultural
sector, the output of subsistence crops as well as traditional export crops
stagnated. The manufacturing sector too found it difficult to compete with
imports, despite extensive government incentives, and suffered from rising
costs and infrastructure bottlenecks.
Poverty and Basic Needs
8.        Nigeria has an estimated population of 83 million (1979) and a per
capita income of about US$670. Although Nigeria is placed among the middle-
income countries, acute poverty is still widespread. In 1978, an estimated 35
percent of the households in the urban areas and 55 percent in the rural areas
were unable to meet the minimum expenditure required for food and other
necessities of life. A substantial portion--20 percent of all households in
urban areas and 40 percent in rural areas--did not have incomes adequate to
meet even basic food requirements.
9.        In terms of such health indicators as infant mortality, life expec-
tancy, and incidence of disease, Nigeria is not much better than the poorest
countries in Africa. Infant mortality is believed to be well over 100 per
thousand, and life expectancy still under 50 years. This is in spite of a
substantial rise in the number of doctors, nurses, and hospitals in relation
to Nigeria's population. Reduction of mortality in Nigeria, as in other coun-
tries experiencing rapid rises in income, will be a slow process, requiring



- 3 -
the spread of an effective primary health care system and progress on a range
of related socio-economic factors, particularly nutrition, primary education,
and water supply.
10.       Nigeria has, however, taken big strides in human resource develop-
ment through the Government's firm commitment to universal primary education
(UPE). As a result, some 60 percent of the school age children are now
enrolled, and in several parts of the south, UPE is already a reality. The
pace at which the program was pursued inevitably created problems, e.g. lack
of trained teachers, deterioration in the quality of education, diversion of
labor from agriculture, and a rising demand for secondary education. But
these initial troubles are likely to ease when the rate of expansion stabi-
lizes. Within the next two decades Nigeria should be transformed from a
country with very high rates of illiteracy to one where most of the population
has been to school.
11.       Although there was little increase in agricultural output during
most of the 1970s, off-farm rural activity expanded considerably, mostly from
public expenditures on construction following the oil boom. Rural incomes
were also augmented by the rapid growth in the service sectors and a probable
increase in remittances from urban areas. The growth in incomes appears to
have been spread widely and to have relieved the rural poverty somewhat.
12.       In urban areas, formal sector employment rose rapidly, perhaps
around 8 percent a year in the 1970s. But real wages appear not to have risen
over the last 15 years. In 1975, there was a substantial increase in public
sector wages, promptly followed by an increase in the private sector. But
this gain was quickly eroded by the ensuing high inflation and the Government's
restraint on further wage increases as part of its policy to control inflation.
Nevertheless, average real wage earnings appear to have risen as a result of
the distribution of employment moving towards the higher paying sectors. Fur-
thermore, since formal sector employment rose in relative terms, an increasing
proportion of the labor force came to enjoy a higher standard of living.
Although the relative size of the informal sector appears to have declined
slightly over the past decade, it still is the dominant mode of employment in
urban areas. Because of the rapid expansion in construction, trade and
commerce, the income earning possibilities in this sector remained generally
good, and average real incomes at the lower end of the scale probably remained
stable, or even improved slightly.
Economic Prospects -
13.       As the major source of public revenue and foreign exchange earnings,
oil is basic to an assessment of Nigeria's long-term economic prospects. On
present knowledge, Nigeria's oil output over the next decade is not expected
to be sustained above the current average of 2.15 mbd; by 1990 it may even
begin to decline. With domestic consumption of oil products rising rapidly
(over 15 percent a year), the exportable surplus is expected to decline from
the current rate of over 90 percent of output to about 70 percent by 1990.
Thus, if past trends persist, and no new sources of export earnings and public



- 4 -
revenue are developed to make up for the relative decline of the oil sector,
Nigeria's balance of payments and fiscal situation can be expected to tighten
over time. Even with a relatively moderate rise in imports, large current
account deficits can be expected to reappear towards the end of the 1980s,
leading to a deterioration in the balance of payments in the 1990s, when
maintenance of steady economic growth will become increasingly difficult.
Budgetary deficits could appear even sooner, threatening domestic economic
stability. Future dramatic increases in the oil price may postpone the
financial difficulties, but this is a risky basis for formulating a long-term
growth strategy.
14.       In order that dependence on imports may decline and non-oil exports
may gradually begin to replace oil exports, projections suggest that Nigeria
has roughly ten years to make the necessary structural adjustments. Accelera-
ting growth in the agricultural sector - which grew by only 1 percent a year in
the 1970s - will be the most difficult task. The growth of the other sectors
of the economy, such as power, transport, and construction, should receive its
impulse primarily from commodity production. The expected rapid increase in
population and labor force (estimated at over 3 percent a year) necessitates
maintaining a fairly high rate of economic growth over the next two decades.
15.       The Government of Nigeria is committed to achieving a balanced and
sustainable economic growth path. The Outline of the Fourth National Develop-
ment Plan indicates that, while the unfinished projects from the Third Plan
period would be speedily completed, greater emphasis will be placed on sti-
mulating agricultural production. A target of food self-sufficiency by 1985
has been set, and a Food Production Plan has just been completed. It sets out
the Government's agricultural strategy over the coming five years, which is
centered on raising the productivity of smallholders. While the target is
ambitious, and may not be achieved within the plan period, it is indicative of
the high priority that is being attached to this sector. There is likely to
be strong emphasis again on education, as in the past, but the expected in-
clusion of a large low-cost housing program would be a new departure. Given
the great improvement in Nigeria's financial prospects, and assuming an active
private sector, domestic investment is expected to be maintained at a high
level. This should permit the economy to grow at around 5 percent a year--
more than 6 percent for non-oil GDP--with fair potential for employment
generation.
16.       The availability of skilled manpower will remain a major constraint
on economic development over the coming years. Although the Government has
given high priority to manpower development, there are still severe shortages
in several lines of activity. The dependence on expatriates is particularly
high in scientific and technical occupations. The demand for middle-level
skills is expected to rise rapidly with an increasing emphasis in government
programs on poverty alleviation, education, and preventive health. In the
short-term, expatriates may alleviate some of these shortages, but ultimately
the solution lies in improving the quality and coverage of education and
expansion of pre-service and in-service training programs.



External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
17.       Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) amounted to US$7
billion at the end of 1980. A limited amount of borrowing on commercial terms
is expected to continue. However, by the mid-1980s, when the debt service on
currently contracted loans will peak, payments will still amount to no more
than 5 percent of export earnings. The World Bank-s share in total debt
outstanding amounts to about 15 percent. Given the relatively low level of
external indebtedness, the Government's generally cautious approach to external
borrowing, and the favorable prospects for oil, the debt service is likely to
remain around 5 percent through 1990. Under the circumstances, Nigeria is
creditworthy for considerable Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
18.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of February 28, 1981 amounted
to US$1408.5 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of February 28, 1981 was US$726.0 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$682.5 million. Transport, power and water supply
together account for about 50 percent of total commitments; agriculture for
about 31 percent (most of which was committed in the last six fiscal years);
and education, industry, urban and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the
remaining 19 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY79 were
about US$60 million, and US$64 million in FY80, but are expected to increase
in the coming years in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria.
There have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are
fully disbursed. IFC has made five loans to borrowers totalling US$17.4
million, and six equity investments totalling US$5.4 million. Of these
amounts, US$4.2 million have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments,
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular em-
phasis on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives
are in consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third
Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture, and its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
particularly the rural poor.
20.       In view of the interest which Nigeria has expressed in greater
Bank involvement, an expanded Bank lending program has been initiated.
In developing a broader approach to lending in Nigeria, a central objective
is to encourage the shift (already discernable in the Federal Government's
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for a Sixth Highway Project approved by the Board on June 24, 1980.



-6
investment programming) away from the massive and diffused infrastructure
investment, which characterized the two or three years following the oil
boom of 1973/74, towards a more discriminating support for growth in the
commodity producing sectors. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise
the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the inci-
dence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively
pursued in recent agricultural projects, including the currently proposed
project, which benefit some of the very lowest income groups. Agricultural
lending of this kind would continue to figure prominently in the future
lending program. A third objective of Bank lending is to support the Federal
Government's efforts to diversify the economy, and reduce the excessive
dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue.
Agricultural lending, in particular, would include strengthening the poten-
tial for export crops such as cocoa.
21.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make
a significant contribution in power, water supply, and highway maintenance.
Further project identification work is under way in these sectors. Similarly,
there is a strong case for continued lending for education. In this context,
it is proposed that vocational, technical, and teacher training be given
special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal and state
governments efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors.
It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will
continue to be addressed through a number of urban development projects,
along the lines of the ongoing project in Bauchi State, focussed on the needs
of the urban poor. A sectoral distribution of lending along these lines
would be in keeping with the need to generate employment, and would also
support the Federal Government-s aim of mobilizing Nigeria-s petroleum
revenues to alleviate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture continues to play an important role in the Nigerian
economy despite the prominence of the petroleum sector. Approximately 60
percent of Nigeria's population is dependent upon agriculture for its
principal source of employment and income. Value added by agriculture
accounts for almost one-quarter of GDP, and almost 40 percent if petroleum
production is excluded. However, production has fluctuated significantly
from year to year, and there was hardly any real growth of value added
during the period 1970-78. At the same time, food prices rose precipitously
as demand outstripped supply. Yet, this sector must continue to play a key
role in the economy both as an employer and as the source of food for the
rapidly growing urban population.



- 7-
23.       Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of small-
holders, with the typical unit being a family farm of 2-4 hectares. Little
use is made of modern inputs, such as fertilizer and improved seeds, or of
mechanized techniques. As a result, yields are very low, and in some cases
have even declined because of deteriorating soil fertility. The incidence of
rural poverty is high, and in some areas, malnutrition is a serious problem.
Although there is some cultivation of cash crops--oil palm, cocoa and other
trees in the south and groundnuts and cotton in the north--almost every farm
family grows some of its food requirements. Only a relatively small propor-
tion of these food crops enters commercial trade for shipment to other areas,
mainly to the urban centers and food deficit areas of the south.
24.       Rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising stan-
dards of education, both of which contrast sharply with the poor returns to
labor and drudgery of traditional agriculture, have encouraged the drift of
young people away from rural areas. In the long run, a prosperous agricultural
sector capable of reducing this drift can be achieved only through the appli-
cation of advanced farming techniques that would provide significant increases
in income per man-day.
Country Policies and Performance
25.       Successive governments have emphasized the need to improve per-
formance in the agricultural sector. In the Third Five-Year Development
Plan (1975-80), US$4.8 billion was earmarked for agriculture. Although the
Plan-s target growth rate for agriculture was set at 5 percent per annum,
the estimated actual rate did not exceed 1 percent. Annual imports of food
rose from about US$300 million in 1974 to about US$1,500 million in 1978,
and agricultural exports declined steadily. If this trend were to continue,
it could result in a food deficit in 1990 of 11 million tons (cereal equiva-
lent), or about 40 percent of demand.
26.       The disappointing performance of the agricultural sector can be
attributed in large part to previous policies which placed strong emphasis
on isolated, large-scale irrigation and government-run, intensively mechanized
production schemes with generally very disappointing production results. At
the same time, little was done to develop essential support services aimed
at the farming community as a whole. Despite the declared intentions in the
Plan, smallholders, who produce 90 percent of total agricultural output, were
not the principal focus of the agricultural strategy. The few government-
sponsored programs for the development of smallholder agriculture have suffered
from poor management, a shortage of funds, or from being stretched too thinly
in order to cover all states. Against this background, Bank-supported agri-
cultural development projects (ADPs) have succeeded in achieving significant
advances in smallholder agriculture. As a consequence, the Federal Government
is now seeking to base its medium-term sector program upon the ADP model.
27.       Upon assuming office in October 1979, the new Government announced
that it would give high priority to agriculture with the objective of elim-
inating Nigeria's dependence upon food imports by the mid-1980s. To recommend



- 8 -
a plan of action for achieving this objective, the Government established a
food strategies commission in which the Bank was invited to participate.
A final report entitled "The Green Revolution: A Food Production Plan for
Nigeria" was published in May 1980, and the principal recommendations were
accepted by the Government.
28.       The Food Production Plan (FPP) acknowledged that the target of
eliminating Nigeria's dependence upon food imports by 1985 was probably
over-ambitious. It recommended the adoption of a 4 percent annual growth
target as the maximum that could be applied realistically to the agricul-
tural sector. It was particularly noteworthy that, in weighing the alter-
native strategies of large-scale mechanization against a discerning support
for smallholder agriculture, the FPP came down squarely in favor of the
latter. To supplement the program of Bank-supported ADPs, the FPP proposed
the immediate implementation of a concurrent smallholder program for the
residual areas not yet covered by ADPs. The nation-wide program would
contain most key elements of the ADP concept, but in a less intensive
package and with lower managerial demands. The program was endorsed by
the Government in early-1981, and the Bank has been asked to provide
technical assistance. An agricultural technical assistance project has
been appraised, and is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors
for approval before the end of this fiscal year.
Development Constraints
29.       One of the principal constraints to the development of the sector
is the lack of effective agricultural support services. The transport of
produce is hampered by a lack of feeder roads. Many farmers have to travel
long distances to obtain fertilizers and other basic farm inputs which, in
many cases, are supplied only irregularly. Consequently, even with the
prevailing high levels of subsidies on farm inputs, farm production has not
increased significantly, and has actually declined in some areas. Extension
services are generally deficient, and the new technologies that are available
are not reaching farmers in remote rural areas. A greater effort is also
required, particularly by the agricultural research institutions, to improve
the analysis of farming innovations, and adapt them to the diverse socio-
ecological conditions of Nigeria.
30.       Shortcomings in the efficiency of commercial support services to
agriculture have also constrained growth. Agricultural supply services
remain almost entirely in the hands of the public sector, which neither has
the experience nor the administrative capability to provide those services.
Given the size of Nigeria's massive development program, the Government should
divest itself progressively of responsibilities for marketing farm inputs
because this function can be handled more efficiently by private enterprise.
In this respect, it is encouraging that the FPP favors preparing the way for
greater participation of the private sector in agricultural supply services.
31.       The Government's policy of maintaining a relatively fixed exchange
rate during a period of domestic inflation has adversely affected the price
competitiveness of some domestic farm produce compared to imported foodstuffs,



-9-
and the policy of subsidizing farm inputs has not succeeded in compensating
fully for this handicap.   In an effort to protect domestic producers from
an influx of imported farm products, the Government has placed quantitative
restrictions and even outright bans on the import of some commodities. The
strategic objective has been to admit imports only to the extent that domestic
production falls short of demand. However, this is a difficult policy to
administer in practice, and it has not been able to prevent cross substitution
by consumers between traditional indigenous foods such as cassava and yam on
the one hand and imported foods such as wheat on the other. The FPP recom-
mends that the Government make greater use of import duties to establish an
appropriate structure of price signals, an approach that should prove more
effective than the prohibition of specific commodity imports.
32.       Government policies for the subsidization of farm inputs have
not always worked to the advantage of the farmers and, in the case of fer-
tilizers, have served to remove the incentive for private sector participa-
tion in the distribution system, thereby creating problems of availability.
The Bank has consistently urged for a lower level of subsidy in the interest
of efficiency and equality, and also the FPP recommends a lower level of
subsidization. While the Federal Government agrees with the principle of
reducing subsidies, for political reasons it is likely to adopt a cautious
approach to the gradual phasing out of input subsidies (para. 59).
33.       From the point of view of availability at the farm gate, however,
procedures for the timely international procurement of fertilizer and for
the financing of the subsidy may be even more important than the level of
subsidy itself. The prevailing institutional arrangements for the procure-
ment of fertilizer have proved unsatisfactory. To overcome these problems,
the Government has now approved the establishment of a commercially-operated
public company for the procurement of fertilizer (para. 60).
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
34.       Agriculture forms the core of the Bank's lending to Nigeria:
since 1974, nineteen loans for agriculture totalling US$443 million have
been approved, and loans to this sector constitute almost half of the
proposed lending program for FY 1981-85. The central objective of Bank
involvement in the sector has been to increase food production and thereby
raise the incomes of rural dwellers, who are amongst the poorest in Nigeria.
To this end, a major effort has been made to develop the abilities of
agencies at all levels of government to prepare and implement agricultural
projects. The Bank also supports the Federal Government's effort to decentra-
lize agricultural development and to build up the role of the recently
created Local Government Councils (LGCs). Yet another instrument that may
further the general objective of Bank lending is to increase the extent to
which agricultural services are provided by private commercial institu-
tions, or at least on a self-financing basis by government institutions.
The Bank has sought to encourage the adoption by Government of policies on
input subsidies, interest rates, and producer pricing that are conducive to
attaining the sector's development goals.



- 10 -
35.       Bank-supported projects in this sector fall into three broad
groups. There have been eight loans for the development of specific crops,
forestry, and livestock. One loan has been made for the establishment of
an agricultural management training institute. The third group consists of
nine projects for the comprehensive agricultural development of target areas,
and the proposed project is of this type. The first three ADPs--Funtua,
Gusau, and Gombe--are nearing completion. They have demonstrated the effec-
tiveness of an integrated services package in increasing farm output and
farmers- incomes.
Conclusion
36.       It is a measure of the success of these Bank-supported projects
that the Federal Government is basing its Green Revolution upon a program
of support for smallholder farming structured along broadly similar lines to
the approach adopted by the ADPs. It is encouraging also that the recommen-
dations of the FPP on many sector issues are designed to rationalize govern-
ment policies and to provide an adequate framework of incentives. In brief,
there is evidence of a growing awareness that financial resources alone will
not solve the problems of the agricultural sector unless they can be deployed
within the framework of an appropriately structured set of policies. Bank
strategy in the medium term future will be to assist the Government transform
this growing awareness into firm action. The proposed state-wide project is
an important step in that direction.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project originated in a request from the Kano State
Government (KNSG) to the Federal Government to assist in preparing an inte-
grated rural development project along the lines of the successful Funtua,
Gusau, and Gombe ADPs in neighboring states. The feasibility study was
completed by the Federal Government-s Agricultural Projects Monitoring,
Evaluation, and Planning Unit in October 1979. The project was appraised by
the Bank in May 1980 and the staff appraisal report (3089a-UNI) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held
with the Nigerian authorities at the Bank in November 1980. Supplementary
data on the project is to be found in Annex III.
Project Objectives -
38.       The principal objectives of the project would be to raise the
productivity and, hence, the real incomes of at least 430,000 farm families
in Kano State, and to strengthen the State's agricultural sector admini-
stration. The typical farmer in Kano State cultivates on average 2.8 hectares
(ha), which is owned by the State. However, farmers hold usufructuary rights,
which can be passed on by inheritance, sale, or rental. Average small-
holdings yield an annual farm family income of only about US$870, or US$115
per capita, under present agricultural practices. If participating farmers
adopt improved practices on all holdings, average family income could be



- 11 -
raised by as much as 100 percent in real terms by the end of the five-year
project period, a major improvement compared with the present static produc-
tion performance. In practice, on the basis of preliminary survey results of
ongoing projects, average family income is likely to increase by around 25
percent.
Project Area
39.       The project area is located in Nigeria's Sudan savannah zone, and
includes Kano State's total area with the exception of Kano Municipality.
Mean annual rainfall in the south is 1,000 mm during the rainy season from
May through October and in the north 635 mm from June through September.
Soils are of low fertility, except for certain soils in the main river valleys
and flood plains (fadamas). The area is primarily utilized for subsistence
food crop production. Land pressures have increased as a result of the high
rate of growth of the state's population, which is now estimated at at least
6 million, including a rural population of at least 5 million, or more than
600,000 farm families.
Project Description
40.       The project would consist of a package of services to assist farm
and crop development on some 900,000 ha in upland areas and on some 30,000 ha
in fadama areas, together with strategic investment in supporting infrastruc-
ture such as feeder roads, boreholes, wells, and farm service centers. The
project would also result in major institutional improvements. It would be
implemented over the period mid-1981 to mid-1986. The project concept would
correspond closely to that which has been applied successfully in ongoing
ADPs in Nigeria. The proposed project and the Bauchi project, which have
been processed in parallel, would be the first ADPs to be implemented on a
state-wide basis.
41.       In terms of farm and crop development, the project would increase
production through the introduction of improved farming practices and streng-
thened extension services, and the provision of improved seeds, fertilizer,
crop protection, and other support services. Most of the farmers would be
expected to adopt a basic service package (BSP) which is applicable to
existing traditional farming systems. Immediate benefits would result from
improved attention to timeliness of farm operations, plant populations, and
modest use of fertilizer, insecticides, and improved seeds. The success of
the BSP would depend largely upon the efficient distribution of farm inputs
by the 138 farm service centers, of which 128 would be constructed under
the proposed project, and an efficient extension service. The latter would
follow the Training and Visit system of extension which has been success-
fully introduced under the Ayangba ADP (Loan 1455-UNI). Since the distribu-
tion of farms in Kano State is relatively dense, extension workers are able
to service effectively a larger number of farmers than may be the case in
other states. Nevertheless, to further improve the effectiveness of exten-
sion, the ratio of extension-staff to farmers would be increased from
1:4,000 to 1:1,000, the maximum attainable with the training constraints. A



- 12 -
smaller group of farmers would be expected to adopt the advanced service
package (ASP), which is designed for farmers displaying the aptitude to
handle more sophisticated techniques and cropping systems, incorporating
pest management, higher use of fertilizers, chemical weed control, hybrid
maize, the use of work bulls and mechanization, and the integration of
livestock with arable farming. In the fadama areas, the ASP program would
include improved flood control and low-cost pumping schemes.
42.       The project would provide for farm trials to test new technology
and farming practices, and to assess their impact not only on yields but
also on socio-economic factors such as farmers attitude. Improved seeds
would be produced both at the project farms and through contract growers.
Conservation practices would be encouraged, and farmers would be advised
on the selection of good arable areas. Furthermore, the project would
establish forest nurseries for on-farm and commercial planting programs
to alleviate increasing bush degradation; about 500 ha would be planted
with trees each year.
43.       To complement the farm and crop development effort, the project
would provide some basic infrastructure. About 1,440 km of feeder roads
would be constructed to provide all-weather access to farm service centers
and to link important agricultural areas to the main roads network. Road
maintenance units would be established in each zone and would assist in the
training of state and local government staff in maintaining the roads after
the completion of the project. Water supply, especially during the dry
season, is critical, and the project would aim at making potable water
available to about 0.9 million people living in communities of less than
1,500 inhabitants. About 1,000 boreholes would be drilled, and an estimated
1,000 existing wells would be rehabilitated. Project staff, with the
assistance of consultants, would prepare a comprehensive rural water supply
program, together with an implementation plan for the first year as part of
the overall action plan (para. 48). A maintenance program would be organized
to ensure the road and water facilities proper, long-term functioning, and
the requisite arrangements, including staff training and funding, would be
reviewed by KNSG with all relevant parties once a year (Sections 2.03(b)(ii)
and 2.15(a) of the Project Agreement). Other civil works would include
housing for project staff and buildings for project administration and
training, farm service centers, and additional storage capacity.
44.       An important component of the project would be the establishment
of the Kano Agricultural Supply Company (KASCO) to enable it to provide an
adequate and timely supply of farm inputs to farmers throughout the state
through farm service centers and primary cooperative societies. In case of
temporary crop surpluses, KASCO would assist with storage and marketing of
crops to ensure price stabilization and efficient movement of surplus.
45.       The project would provide for about 160 man-months of short-term
consultant services to prepare plans and studies in a number of areas. These
would include the development of a staff development and management training
program, research of innovative on-farm and fadama technology, follow-up



- 13 -
planning of the project's water supply component, review of marketing proce-
dures, socio-economic surveys, and studies on post-project organization and
maintenance of feeder roads and rural water supply. Although the consultants
are likely to be recruited internationally, local firms would be encouraged to
participate. The cost of their services has been estimated at US$11,000 per
man-month.
Project Implementation
46.       The project would embrace a range of activities which are now
nominally the responsibility of different ministries, agencies, and in-
stitutions. It has been designed to introduce effective management and
coordination of rural development activities which are now lacking, as
well as to strengthen the technical base needed for project execution and
post-project development. A state committee, the Kano State Agricultural
and Rural Development Executive Committee (KNARDEC), would be established
to decide on and to coordinate rural development policies and to oversee
project execution; its functions would include review and approval of the
annual implementation program and budget, coordination of program activites
with other ministries, agencies, and institutions, formulation of training
policies, appointment of senior staff, and approval of contracts over
N60,000. KNARDEC would be chaired by the Governor or his nominee, and
include representatives of the responsible state ministries and agencies,
the program manager (para. 48), the Managing Director of KASCO, the General
Manager of the Hadejia-Jama-ara River Basin Development Authority, two chair-
men of Zonal Development Committees (para. 47), and a representative of the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture. The establishment of KNARDEC would be a
condition of effectiveness (Sections 6.01(e) of the Loan Agreement and
2.01(b) of the Project Agreement).
47.       Four Zonal Development Committees (ZDC) would be established to
coordinate program execution within the state's four zones. The ZDCs would
each consist of a chairman nominated by the Governor, the chairmen of the
zonal LGCs, the zonal manager (para. 48), and the zonal chief accountant.
They would advise project management on the annual zonal programs and budgets,
ensure coordination with LGC officials, and monitor LGC staff involved in
water supply maintenance.
48.       The project would be implemented by the Kano Agricultural Program
Management Unit (KNAPMU), which would report to KNARDEC, and would be headed
by a program manager. KNAPMU's establishment would be a condition of effec-
tiveness (Sections 6.01(e) of the Loan Agreement and 2.01(c) of the Project
Agreement). Staff for its agriculture, feeder roads, and rural water supply
divisions would be mainly seconded from the Ministries of Agriculture and
Rural and Community Development and LGCs. Four zonal managers would be
responsible to the program manager for the implementation of the program
within their respective zones. They would initiate the annual work program
and budget, supervise construction of roads and water supplies, establish
and operate a zonal workshop and operations center, maintain transport and
buildings, control agricultural extension and training, and liaise with the
zonal evaluation unit, KASCO, and the cooperatives. It would also be a



- 14 -
condition of loan effectiveness that an action plan, detailing specific
investments and project activities for the first project year, had been
presented to the Bank (Sections 6.01(h) of the Loan Agreement and 2.03(b)
of the Project Agreement).
49.       KASCO would be responsible for the efficient and cost effective
distribution and sale of fertilizer, seeds, insecticides, and other farm
inputs and services. Farm inputs would be distributed through the state-
owned farm service centers and cooperative retail outlets. All farm service
centers would be staffed by KASCO, except where a well-functioning coopera-
tive .society would be authorized to run a center's commercial service.
KASCO's establishment, including the payment of N3 million in equity by
KNSG, would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections 6.01(c) of the Loan
Agreement and 2.02 and 2.03(a)(i)(B) of the Project Agreement).
50.       An important project objective would be to strengthen and expand
cooperative input supply, credit, and crop marketing efforts. KASCO would
actively support cooperative development, which would include the provision
of technical assistance. This support should also enable cooperatives to
provide most of the limited project credit requirements. To stimulate develop-
ment in areas where cooperative facilities are not available, farm service
centers would in some cases be permitted to sell inputs and implements to
individual farmers on a deferred payment basis; interest would not be below
the rate charged by the cooperatives, which is currently 12 percent. To
ensure that the cooperatives have adequate working capital to engage in
marketing operations, KNSG agreed at negotiations to participate in the
share capital of primary societies and unions up to a total of NO.5 million
(Section 2.16 of the Project Agreement).
51.        Proper staffing of KNAPMU, the zonal units, and KASCO is essen-
tial to the sound implementation of the project. There is a great shortage
in Nigeria of manpower with the experience and capability necessary to
manage projects of this nature. In the three completed and six ongoing
agricultural development projects, the Bank has encouraged state governments
to identify and recruit suitable Nigerians for key positions, but this
has proved difficult. The project, therefore, makes provision for the
international recruitment of 41 key personnel 1/. Since the contracts of
these staff would extend over a number of years, the average cost per
man-month would be US$8,000 -- significantly lower than the cost of short-
term consultants. Technical staff would include the program manager, four
zonal managers, chief technical officer, four zonal technical officers,
forester, two evaluation officers, land use planner, irrigation engineer,
six training officers, and a media specialist; financial staff would include
the financial controller, KASCO financial controller, and four zonal accoun-
tants; engineering staff would include the chief engineer, water supply
engineer, hydrogeologist, three roads engineers, and four mechanical engi-
neers; and commercial staff would include a cooperative and marketing advisor,
and for KASCO a managing director and a commercial manager.
1/   An additional four would be required if the water supply program were to
be undertaken on force account.



- 15 -
52.       The Bank's Agricultural Projects Management Unit for Western
Africa would assist in recruiting the program manager, the financial con-
troller, the chief technical officer, the chief engineer, and the chief
training officer. Other staff would be employed through a consulting firm
or firms, which would undertake to supply as many Nigerians as possible for
the requisite positions. Staff and consultants would be engaged with quali-
fications and experience, and in accordance with terms of reference and
contracts, acceptable to the Bank. The appointment of the program manager and
thirteen additional specialists for KNAPMU and KASCO and the satisfactory
arrangement for the recruitment of other key project staff would be conditions
of effectiveness (Sections 6.01 (f) and (g) of the Loan Agreement and 2.04 of
the Project Agreement).
53.       To accelerate the promotion of Nigerian staff, all expatriate
employees would be required to train their counterparts. By the end of the
project period, most of the key managerial and supervisory positions should
be in the hands of Nigerians. In addition, a well-designed and systematic
management training program would be implemented for project and selected
state and local government officials.
54.       Specialized training courses would be established for all levels
of staff in the agronomic and related technical fields. Farmer training
would be conducted by mobile training units. Extension staff would be
trained at three existing residential schools during one-year courses.
The small number of home economics field staff would be augmented by expand-
ing the existing home economics training school. Wives of young farmers
attending the one-year agricultural course would be encouraged to partici-
pate via a full-time home economics course for a similar period. KNAPMU's
training staff would also liaise with KASCO on the training of its staff and
with state and LGC officials in developing adequate training programs in
areas related to project activities such as the maintenance of feeder roads
and water facilities.
55.       At the end of the project period, KNAPMU's operating divisions,
technically stronger and accustomed to operating in a coordinated way, would
be returned to the ministries from which they had been transferred for project
execution. The program manager and his evaluation staff would possibly conti-
nue as a coordinating unit responsible to the Governor. The training staff
would, as part of the Ministry of Agriculture, continue to train new staff,
and offer refresher courses and upgrading. To facilitate the transfer, KNSG
would submit to the Bank, for review with the Federal Government and the Bank
by not later than December 31, 1984, detailed proposals for post-project
organization, finance, and maintenance of facilities (Sections 3.05 of the
Loan Agreement and 2.14 of the Project Agreement).
Project Costs
56.       Total costs for the five-year project period are estimated at
US$482 million (including taxes and duties of US$28 million) of which the
foeeign exchange component would amount to US$217 million or 45 percent. A
breakdown of costs by major categories is given in the Loan and Project



- 16 -
Summary. Allowance has been made for physical contingencies equal to 5
percent of base costs for all items, except for civil works and rural water
supply schemes for which the allowance is 10 and 25 percent, respectively.
Price contingencies for local construction and operating costs allow for an
annual rate of inflation at 15 percent except for local salaries and labor
directly employed by the project which are calculated at 10 percent. Price
contingencies for foreign costs are estimated at 9 percent for 1981, 8 per-
cent for 1982, and 7 percent thereafter. On this basis, total contingencies
are estimated at 36 percent of base costs.
Project Financing
57.       The proposed loan of US$142 million to the Federal Government
would finance 32 percent of total project cost, net of taxes and duties, and
would be equivalent to the full foreign exchange cost of the project net of
incremental fertilizer costs (which would be financed by the Federal Govern-
ment). The full amount of US$142 million would be onlent by the Borrower
to Kano State on the same terms as the Bank loan. The State would carry the
foreign exchange risk. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and KNSG would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). The Federal Government would finance 25
percent of total project cost other than the cost of farm inputs. This 25
percent, when added to the federal subsidy on incremental fertilizer require-
ments 1/, amounts to US$143 million or 30 percent of total project costs.
Of the remaining US$197 million total project costs, KNSG would contribute
US$167 million 2/ and the participating farmers another US$30 million by way
of purchasing farm inputs. Their respective share in total project costs,
therefore, would amount to 34 percent and 6 percent respectively.
58.       To ensure the timely and adequate provision of counterpart funding,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) as a condition of
loan effectiveness, a commercial bank account be opened for KNAPMU with initial
deposits of N3 million each from KNSG and the Federal Government; (b) as a
further condition of loan effectiveness, KNSG guarantee any overdrafts drawn by
KNAPMU up to the equivalent of three months project expenditure requirements;
(c) also as a condition of effectiveness, a commercial bank account be opened
for KASCO with an initial deposit from KNSG of N3 million by way of equity
contribution; (d) the Bank disburse funds directly to KNAPMU's commercial bank
account; (e) KNAPMU submit to the Federal Government, KNSG, and the Bank, at
least four months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, an annual budget
proposal for the project as approved by KNARDEC; (f) both the Federal Government
and KNSG provide their quarterly contributions to the project quarterly and in
advance in accordance with KNAPMU-s approved annual budget; (g) in the event
that the project does not receive promptly funding from KNSG, the Federal
1/   Fertilizer subsidy policy described in paragraph 59.
2/   Excluding US$6 million in contributions to KASCO and the cooperatives
(paras 49 and 50; not part of project costs).



- 17 -
Government be authorized to pay directly to the project-s commercial bank
account that part of the state's statutory allocation corresponding to the
state's agreed financial support for the project; and (h) audited accounts of
both KNAPMU and KASCO be submitted to the Bank within four months after each
fiscal year (Sections 2.02, 3.02, and 6.01 of the Loan Agreement and 2.03,
2.12, and 3.02 of the Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
59.       KASCO would recover all costs for procurement and distribution
of seeds, chemicals, sprayers, and agricultural implements through appro-
priate charges to the farmer. Only where Government policy provides for
explicit subsidization would an exception be made to this principle. It was
agreed at negotiations that KNSG and the Bank would annually review and agree
on KASCO's cost recovery policies and practices to ensure that the cost of any
input or service is fully recovered (Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement).
The most prominent such case is that of fertilizer where present government
policy is to charge the farmer a fixed price amounting to only 17 percent of
total fertilizer cost at the farm gate in Kano. The remaining cost is covered
by state and federal subsidies. The Federal Government has indicated that it
will continue to subsidize the cost of fertilizer from its oil revenues.
Although it intends to gradually reduce subsidies, the Government feels unable
to do so for the time being because such a move may be misinterpreted as a
weakening of its commitment to the "Green Revolution" and its announced
support for the small and low income farmers.
60.       Although we feel that subsidization stimulates inefficiency and
waste, it is evident that, from a project implementation point of view, the
availability of adequate amounts of fertilizer on time is more important
than the fertilizer price level. Consequently, assurances have been received
from the Federal Government that Kano State would receive adequate and timely
amounts of fertilizer for the project (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement).
To overcome the serious problems which the ongoing ADPs have experienced in
obtaining their fertilizer requirements on time, the Federal Government, in
consultation with the Bank, has now approved the establishment of a national,
commercially-oriented fertilizer supply company under expert management
(para. 33). The company will procure and distribute fertilizer and operate
the fertilizer financing and subsidy system. It will be responsible for
delivering fertilizer to KASCO for retail distribution throughout Kano State.
Marketing
61.       In view of Nigeria-s growing food deficit (para. 25), the projected
increase in food grain production of the project from about 1.5 million tons
at present to an estimated 2 million tons at the end of the project period
would be easily absorbed. Although Kano State itself is now almost self-
sufficient in food grains, the increase in production would only just suffice
for the growth in population during the project period. With small land
holdings and large family size, individual farmers have little marketable



- 18 -
surplus to offer. Therefore, with improved roads, farmers are not expected to
meet any serious marketing problems. In addition, the project would assist
marketing by financing on- and off-farm storage facilities, training marketing
staff, and establishing a simple market intelligence system.
Procurement
62.       Contracts for chemicals and agricultural implements, vehicles,
tractors, road building and other equipment, including spare parts, amounting
to US$200,000 or more, would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local competitive bidding
(LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank would be employed
for contracts between US$60,000 and US$200,000. For contracts of US$60,000
and less, competitive shopping would be employed. Domestically manufactured
goods procured under ICB would be allowed a 15 percent preference or the
applicable import duty, whichever is lower, for purposes of bid evaluation.
The aggregate cost of the above items of procurement is estimated at about
US$108 million, of which about US$40 million would be expected to be procured
locally. Civil works, including buildings, boreholes, and materials for road
and dam construction, valued at about US$85 million, would be procured by ICB
for contracts of US$2 million and more. LCB would be allowed for smaller
contracts which in our experience would not prove attractive to foreign
contractors. Of the civil works, about US$70 million would be expected to be
awarded to locally-established firms. The services of consultants and inter-
nationally-recruited staff, and overseas training, valued at about US$28
million, would be obtained in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
Disbursements
63.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period 1981-86.
Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign exchange expendi-
tures on vehicles, tractors, road building and other equipment, and farm
inputs excluding fertilizer. Where items are locally procured, disbursement
would be made against 85 percent or, in the case of farm inputs (other than
fertilizer), 70 percent of total expenditures, the items estimated foreign
exchange components. For contracts for borehole drilling, disbursement would
be made against 100 percent of foreign cost or 70 percent of total expendi-
ture. For buildings, disbursement would be made against 50 percent of total
expenditure. The cost of salaries and allowances of internationally-recruited
staff and consultant services and overseas training would be fully compensated.
On this basis, total disbursements are estimated at US$62.0 million against
vehicles, equipment, and farm inputs, US$7.5 million against borehole drilling,
US$33.3 million against buildings, US$25.0 million against internationally
recruited staff, consultants, and overseas training of local staff. An
additional provision of US$14.2 million has been made on an unallocated
basis. Provision has been made for up to US$400,000 of retroactive financing
for key internationally-recruited staff to assist in project start-up
activities.



- 19 -
Economic Benefits
64.       The overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated
at 36 percent, excluding the rural water supply component for which it was
not possible to quantify all of the benefits resulting from safe and secure
water supply. This is higher than the rate of return for most agricultural
projects, including the Bauchi project, particularly because of the state s
currently rather low level of fertilizer consumption, which will allow
relatively high increases in yields per farmer, and its rather good network
of feeder roads, resulting in relatively low costs of infrastructure per
farmer. Sensitivity tests show that costs would have to rise by 44 percent,
benefits fall by 30 percent, or farmer adoption rates fall by 63 percent to
yield a minimum acceptable rate of return of 11 percent.
65.       Most of the project beneficiaries would be smallholder farmers,
cultivating on average 2.8 ha. There are an estimated 614,000 farm families
in Kano State and, if, as on existing ADPs, 60 to 70 percent of them adopt
some of the improved farm practices, some 430,000 families, or 3.2 million
people, would benefit directly from the project's agricultural components.
The 1980 level of farm income in the south of the project area averages only
about US$170 per capita, and in the north about US$110 per capita 1/, far
below the rural absolute poverty level which is provisionally estimated to be
about US$230. If farmers adopt improved practices for all crops, their per
capita income would increase substantially,to about US$310 in the south and
US$250 in the north of Kano State. These comparisons show that the project
could greatly increase the income of poor farmers, and could help narrow the
income gap between rural and urban areas of Kano State.
66.       In addition, the project is expected to yield a number of other,
albeit non-quantifiable, benefits concerning improvement of rural roads and
water supplies, training of technical and cooperative staff, and development
of related state institutions. The latter would facilitate the transfer of
project activities to the existing ministries and agricultural organizations
at the end of the project period.
67.       Direct employment generation would amount to about 20,000 man-years
of hired labor requirements. In addition, the higher level of economic
activity in the project area would induce some non-farm employment in other
sectors.
Project Risks
68.       As one of the first state-wide agricultural development projects
assisted by the Bank, the project would introduce, on a larger scale, many
of the successful management and organizational techniques adopted in the
1/   The lower per capita income in the north can be explained by the rela-
tively worse climatic and agronomic characteristics of particularly the
northeast.



- 20 -
ongoing ADPs. The project's agronomic features are tried, the four zonal
units are each not much larger than ongoing ADPs, and the project organiza-
tion integrates and strengthens-mostly existing institutions. Nevertheless,
sound management, regular and timely financing, and efficient and dependable
procurement and distribution of farm inputs would be essential to the
success of the project. In the longer term, the transition of the project
activities to local institutions would also be essential. On all points,
the agreements reached during negotiations, and detailed in the preceding
paragraphs, should be adequate.
69.       Given state and federal intentions to increase the share of revenues
directed to agricultural development, the project cost is regarded as realistic
within the overall financial resources likely to be available to the State.
Including the financing of ongoing expenditures for agriculture, KNSG would
have to provide on average yearly N35 million excluding fertilizer subsidiza-
tion and N55 million including fertilizer subsidization, or about 10 and 15
percent, respectively, of the State-s expected resources. Kano State should
be able to provide its share in view of (i) the State's explicit commitment to
developing agriculture and (ii) the fact that the expected increase in state
revenues, in line with the growth of oil revenues, should reduce the impact of
the rise in the allocation to agriculture on expenditure in other sectors.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Kano State of
Nigeria, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
71.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III including the following conditions of effectiveness of the loan,
set out in Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement: (a) signing of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and Kano State; (b) promulgation by Kano
State in the Official Gazette of a notice establishing the Kano Agriculture
and Rural Development Executive Committee and Kano Agricultural Program
Management Unit (KNAPMU) in a form and with powers and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank; (c) establishment of the Kano Agricultural Supply
Company, including payment of N3 million in equity by Kano State; (d)
appointment of KNAPMU program manager, and thirteen additional key specia-
lists for both KNAPMU and KASCO; (e) satisfactory arrangement for recruit-
ment of other key project staff for KNAPMU; (f) opening of a commercial bank
account for KNAPMU with initial deposits of N3.0 million each by Borrower
and Kano State; (g) arrangement of overdraft facilities for KNAPMU, equiva-
lent to three months cash flow requirements, in a commercial bank, guaranteed
by Kano State; and (h) drafting of 1981 Action Plan.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
April 13, 1981
Uashington, D. C.



- 22 -                                      ANEX I
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHErT
AWD ARtEA (THOUSAIID SO. KM.)                NIGERIA                          REFERENCE GPOUPS (UEICHTFD AVERAFS
2EAND ARU (THOUSAND SO ___.)                                                         -_MOST_RECENT_ESTI.YATF)"
TOTAL           -9MT3.8E
AGRICULtTURAL    448.12                                 OST RFCENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MlDIOFIl I:COME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAIIAPA  LATIN AMFRICA I CARIUEAN
CUP PER CAPITA (USS)                 160.0       250.0      670.0                868.0                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      34.0        52.0      106.0                699.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     51.6        66. 2      80.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.1         16.4      19.5                 28.9                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     153.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       425.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2135
POPULATION DEPSITY
PER SQ. IBt.                      56.0        72.0      88.0                  61. 7                   28.1
PER SQ. IQ. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0       152.0      181.0                126.0                    91.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PEirfN )
0-14 YRS.                         45.4        46.6      47.2                  45.5                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.3        51.0      5. 3                  51.6                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABoVE                   2. 3        2.4       2.4                   2.8                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.5       2.5                   2. 7                    2. 7
URBAN                              4.8         4.7        4.7                  4.9                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     52.0        51.0       50.0                 46.8                    34. 8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     25.0        21.0       18.0                 16.4                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3. 3       3. A                 3. 2                    2. 5
FAF2ILY PLANNIPG
ACCEPTORS. AFI2.AL (THOUSANDS)      ..          7. 6     33.2
tIERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
P00D AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.0       102.0      88.0                  94.0                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPI.Y OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRFMENTS)                   79.0        82.0      82.0                  92. 7                  107.4
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        44.0      45.0                  53.0                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       11.0        10.0       11.0                 15.6                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     38.0        33.0      24.0                  21.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.0        44.0      48. 0                 50. 1                   63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       154. 0/      ..                    ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                  31.0                    65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  66.B                    80.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    62.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    79.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         56895.0     24664.0   15803.0               14508.2                  1849.7 
POPULATION PER NLRSING PERSON     6020.0/d   5072.0   4028.0                  3279..5                 1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2765.0 /e   2220.0    1409.0                1141.5                   48D.3
URBAN                               ..       400.0
RURAL                               ..     18450.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..       4.7                    .
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUYBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              3.0          ..        2.2
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF 141ELI.INGS)
TOTAL                             81.0          ..
URBAN                             81.3          ..      42.4
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 23 -                                             NMNEX I
Page 2 of 5
NICERIA - SOCIAI. INDICATORS DATA SUEET
NIGERIA                          REFERENCE :ROlUPS (WEIGHTED AVE GES
- MOST RFCENT ESTIMATF)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 1b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMFRICA & CARIBBFAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDIARY:     TOTAL                  36.0         34.0       42.0                   61.7                      99.7
MALE                  46.0         43.0       50.0                   69.2                     101.0
FEMALE                27.0         25.0       33.0                   51.4                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   4.0          6.0                              2 20. 6                   34.4
MAIE                    6.0          8.0        ..                   29.2                      33.5
FEMALE                  1.0          4.0        ..                   14. 7                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   5.0             8. 5      3. 8/f                 7. O                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             30.0         34.0       34.0                   36.6                      30.5
SECONDAPY                           19.0         21.0       25.0                   24.3                      14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          15.0          ..         ..                     ..                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 7         1. 0        *                    38.8                      43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSANUD
POPULATION                           3. 0        23.0       79.0                   83.5                     245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 1         1.4        1.6                     ..                      84.2
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    8. 0          5.0       9.0                   24. 2                     63. 3
CINEMA ANNUIAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        0. 5                   0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FPICE (THOUSANDS)    21788.5        25988.8   30331. 1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    41. 3        40.6       40.0                   38. 1                -   22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               70.8         62.1       56.0                   54.3                      37. 1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  10.4         13.8       17.0                   17.8                      23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  42. 7        40.5      39.1                   38.8                      31.5
MALE                                   50.9         48.8      47.4                   48.4                      48.9
FEMALE                                34.8         32.4       31.0                   29.4                      14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1. 1         1.2        1. 3                  1.3                       1. 4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCGME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSE'AOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (ESS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      472.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      181.0                     ..                     190.8
ESrDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                      402.0                     ..                     474.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      134.0                     ..                     332. 5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a The group averages for each indicator are populacion-veighted arithoetic means. Coverage of countries
smong the indicators depends on availab ility of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data  .Ir 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1965-bb average;  /d 1963;  /e Including ex-North Cameroon under British administration;  /f Certain
fields of stu.dy previously classified under other second level educatlon of vocational or technical
nature are now reporLed onder general education.
Most recent estioate of CNP per capita is ftr 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
- 24-Page 3of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL. INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data ar  drawn fro  sucsgnrlyjudged the mos authoritative  and reliale, it should also ha soed ohat they may not he Inter-
natiocalyo cop-bale  h.ca..  oIf the tack ofaadared definitions and ..ucepte used by different.. cutrien  in onlote    he data.  The dot Ca are, none-
thelea, usful to drsorth   orders of magoitude, indIcat  teoda, and uharatrtiee  -ctain major diffeeseres  1' hteses  onetes..
The refeenc  grup  ate (1)  the name t-aty_grouP of the subjoo  countr1y and (2) a country grop etchismwa   ihn   vrg   noeta   h   onr   ru
of thenhjet county (ecp.         fr"aptlhupuOtIpo-ters" group where "Middle Income North AfrIc  and Middle tast" is cho..eu heo-ue of stronger
stoululaffioittle).  In the refere.o. group data the averages ar  PePulatios weighted arithmetIc negna for snob indicator and sho   only whenat
leas  hal of t.he, cuties toagou   a  data f orithat indicator   lists the  -oeaeofcutie   en  the indiratorn  depends on the arailehility of
daes an  is notuniform   eantie  mast hseerotedtorlin avaesof ass tndi.tca    tanther.  These averges are ony o-efa1 in comparing the v_ae
ef ... indicator an a else sma   the   -tucry ed referent  s-gops.
LAND ARiA (thousand sqina.)                                                                    Po  pate   er Physiciag-  Papuleties diviasa by ntsmb- of prnetieieg  phy-
Tote1 - Total -uof ae- re  copriatg laud area and tsaud wer.teaequaltfitd from nmdical sch1 an university levelf
Agricultural -Estimate ef ag trucrl are  andtemporarily or permanetly              Populatio  per ifrigParses -P Ppulation divided by saanagpb                 oiea
fcc crps.p ue,   maret.        andkitchen gardena or to lie fallow; 1977 data,              maeadfml   rduate nures  pratical anres, and assissent nurses.
G7.IE~~R.dA~PITA (Ul!.).- GNP p.r ..pit.                               Penlatiot  rantH'sit"' Ned -total, urban, and renal   Ppalanion  (trenl,
IMP PE-aIA-i)-11'pr  apt   siae   ccret market pri-ea, tat-                                     rban, end retl  divided  bytei   apeiesbr ef bspine1 beds
cuae   bysae    iuerlo  method as World Eaek Atlas (1977-79 haste); 1960,                available Cn public and private gonera1 end apeeaised h.spite1 an  re-
i97t, aod  1979dataI.                                                                         hbhilitttien  centre.C    fHospitals are  etabliabh-ts permnetly eteffed
04 ERGCONSUP~TINPER  A~PIA - A l C..-pri    .1  ,  I e    Sy (~,:j       by at  eat en  physician.  fEn-blibmanee. providing principally ...stedi.1
ESERIT IINiMPTIONPit CAPIT   - dauna  enneanpIcofce rtlengy(al                      as atre net inelnded.  Rural heepitata. h-.-ve, incede hamlth and medirl
and lignite  Petrolu, natural ga  and hydro-, nulared geteml-l eters sot pemaetly sta fed by    p                                                -to     (bun by a medi-1.. sistant.
trlcicy) Ic kIlogram   of coal equivalet per ca.pita; 1960, t9yt, and 1978                      se,sdie   r.    hc  ngryia-patien iooantnan   rvd 
dana.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited range of medical fatlities    Per statistical purpesm  urban hospi-
PiPI'L,ATIONf AND VITA1 iTATISTICS                                                               tals inelde SWHOe principal generalad apeelaleed hptels, end rena
Total PopulatIon, Mid-Year(mlina  - As of July 1; tWit, 1970, and 1978                       tdmasun  er    orte   e    Totalh sobe  o  admlsios Ce o  dischrges
data,          P...t'tt                  --f-            t    I pltIfrom hoepitels divided by the nombar og beds
dfeetdefinitionso  urban are...any aff-ert   erbiit   of da'ta                    gaujqG
amn   onre;1960, 1970,..ad 1978 dens,                                            AveaeNn  of    ..ashold (pen.... per he-sehld)  . naal  aban  and  e -
.Poplaion. Pro-etin                                                                            A hshold tatr   of a greup of idivgel b  shar  livig qeerters
Pouaioi er   tt-tretpulio prenIonaar  based en 1980                                 and their maim meals   A hoarder or ledger may -r may not he inceded 
totlpouato   by ae.  nd see and rbir martality adfrtility ra ,                            thr h .n.eheld for statistieni purposes,
Prjt sparamters for aertality rates cmpriga of three leesgam                      Average eabr ofprosper noon-. rona,1 erba,, and rural - Avasege  on
1s   Ieepctracyac birth    . teeain,g with -autry'e p-r capita  noe                hr  fproa_e   a. Ia  l   ra,adrrl  tuidonetaa
lerrl, and (enal  lif ueptacthiaug at 77.1 years-  The pam-                               de ig         - epe-niv-lp.  Deeltige malade se -pemaet  tetreras end
eerefur fernilin yeas alno have three levels esuoming d-oltas to                      unepied parts,
frrtilily accoding to i--e  level and pas  feily planning performance                   Aotesa to  Eletnritip  (perce-t of d-e1ing) -total, urban, and rural -
Inhcutry is thenasgedoeo  thes ine combinations of motality                           C..tanIona..  denlltgs with elcrct i1iigqures-                         pretg
aud fertilIty  -rede for projectirn purposes,                                             ofttlIubntn ruraldwel ing                 .epatvlyi.qt..-pC-g
Stutlo..ary oonulacicn -tIoa.n.Ceti..ary population there is no gronch since                     :t1     ..        dr.     -1i.- - -y
tho birth vate is equal to the deech rate, and alan the  ge structure p-              mBlAION
mains contat.  Trhin t  achieved only after frtcility rate  det1ise Ce                  AJ..    .C1   .t           I
of. cnes. relce   tsldeatl.Th   ttionary                     h. pel the senwsPrimay schol-   naalml and fm1e-Gt.e.. teta1, male and female
of   -    C.Pll. it.,,  'y   -ti-y P.enolmet  f  ll  ge  a  ir  niaryleelIeperetags  f  e                                                         ticie
esimatd on the hunts of the pejeutced ohara.t-nistice of che papalanien                      primaryt shol-a1ge ppueniten   normaly Isel1dee pobitdre  agd61
in the poar lIl0, and the rate of decline of fertility rate to tnpl...-                     yer   u   dute   oPifrntlntso   rIayennin . for
nest  net.                                                                                   mum_tmies withevra  adoration enolnn-y anteed 100 Pere...c
Yea  satiu...ry popalation is re...bed - The yst when stationar y populatios                   sien  soeppl   r   eo    rsoeteofca   eolae
sloe.. baaben raced                                                                          Secondayeh l-  tenet male and femal  - Computed e  above; seodar
Population            ..    .pl.i.    erq.r  kibonito               h-e...)  fd_etienne.quire   et least fourtyeses ofI pprovd primary inat_oie;
Per an. b . agicultrl  lan1I.d - Canp.t.d as above for agricn1turn1 land                       amoluded.f.  '       .1    .C    fg;.-..d..     .C.  
only.                                                                                    V'...aninal enrollmet (pen-te   of ..enender) - Peestiemt isetifatiene
PPoplation Age Strc.tors (earnst).   - Children  (I-t4 year),..enktng-age (10-                   in-tde ce-hnin1, industeta, or other p-egro    which operete iadepa-
64yas,ad retired (h5 years and  -ne) ge pencetagee of mid-year pops-                     dently en as department  of  eendar  intituniene.
aIce; 1961, O17,r and 197  daa                                                             Pspnl-te...hsr ranto. - primay, an Zanndr  - Total atadenn  matolled in
Population tr..eth Rate (pree      oa            anlgot   ae    f ftal. mid-                     primary end .....ndary 1ievl  divided by nubha    of tag...n b      Ia1 the
year populations f t 1900-fE, 1960-71  end197D. 78.                                  enenespanding levels
Population Irueth Nate (pertent) -  pa      uutgot   ae   fubnpp-                              Adul cirray rt            C.-et) - Listr-sadales  (able to red and nice)
larien   for  900-hI  196070. and 1970-78.                                              aaprscg    ftona  adat ppolatin eged 10 years and over.
Crd   ith Rte (rt   use) - Annul live births per thousand of mid-year
p.paIacien; 19ff  19710, nod17dt.CONSUMPTION
linda leach Rate f;reetosn)- na  deaths Per thousand of mid-year                             P..as.nSet C... (pen chonend penutetine) - Psa.s-ne  oars comprise aLnto
papulatio-;_19i6t, 1970, and 176 dra.                                                        tars seating less than sight per...se; -ctludes amhnlane, hearses and
tense EaRdctISneRte-Average naber of doughtos    unanwllher in                                 mIlinynil
her normal rapredutive period if alaaepenioces preenn  L,a-sPec,  tofr     Radio Retivep  (pe ibousend populantir  - All types of recever   enf             a
tility rates; usaly five-yeravrge   ndn  in 1960, 1970, and 19177                            broadcasts no general. publie per thousan d nf population; acue    el
Pamiy Pasnig-Auspcra,duanl (heuanda  -  nnua  nabor  f anaptta         ened  etyelver  in   . cutries and in yeses when  ngietnatien of radio  a
of hitch-ostrol dent.. .e     . unde  aspica  of national fuity planning progam.-             a  in effect; data for tenant yrorn may non he tomparabl  state mass
Pamiy Panana-eer  (e_e..anof married comaen) - PenC--cge of marriedconreablsdlinetg
eun   fichil1d-bearin   age (.15-44yeas  who.s  bitch-con.trol devices to              ntCeiver  (pen theases p..          at.  )      trtivr  febracatt
al   erid  ome  in sae_ ge group,T     . generalpbi,                                                     e thousan.d population; Vr . ieendaatiof-e ...d ..t rteit
FO  OtE ANDJNUTITION                                                                             incutries and in yearn when rgitstraio  of OP sets wa iaffect.
1.d..  e,  ,pit,  --1      tier of "dilyR gnralinrse  nesppe"   defined as a periodicalipb
prodctin o  al  food  -umdis   Prductio  enCdssedadfe  sd                               lpt           devened primailC  recrding g.enerl nav.  It i .Considered
too   alna  your basia.  C-stdities tcue  primar  gode (e.gS.  Iuara                         en ha"al"ifi per  at least fou  tme   weed,.kt.     _                    o
macnd of sugar) which ann edible an   eciuunon    e..cfe ad..                     .rCipmt         nua:tednc          pe ainara  Ter-ted   nteubr o
cog err  .Inclded). .Aggirn9nce pr1odutio   o f each coocry .Is, based onddCigt.  .C    -Id.    d.iC   t   t--.i
nainl pv g   prducer price cight; 1961-'61, 197,  and 1970 dan.Ccceasl   uigte  er  nldn    disin   odiei   iea
Per caita suopp  ofolne  pret of renuir-ats) - iCeputed fro                                   n  ahl  uis
Per daY.  Availablefaupp1isnps % dometic productio..  imports less                      Total LabtPorte (thousands) - fEnnonieally active Persons, iseluding
e  tprca  an      fo       ..                     i    .Cb d changes in stok.  Net euPPlirs enolade snima  feed, seeds,  armd fuesad  ...plnyed bnt ...tluding housewives, stedets, ate,
qunitie  and in  udrcesIng, and less  ndistiution                         eqineeiiin   in -rai_u  taneies are net  -oparable; 19ff, 1970 and
aene   er  enfted by Phi base d on phy_tgn    ed  frana  ui-                        1978i data..C
city and health ....stdeningenie          ct tepeCature, body weights, age             PFmle (epent)t  F-Pnle labor forte as pencestage of total labor Pores.
and era di-cihut in of population, and allowing 11 peroet-  for casten                     ntu r(pco) - imbueonc  in farming,fetny, buntingg and
hh....bhod leel  19 61-6SI 1970, ad177 data,                                            fgishing ae (poenrag..     o t total     nPne  16,17   nd17   ae
Pe  aiaaply of prtIn  ~aaper day) - P_tcee c_enen  of pr capita                   Industry (prer..st)  - Labor fcrue in mining, pntrris,mnfatein
oa  supply of food pen day        C suppl  of food is defined an above.RNe-               en    lcrct,ctraa   ae    ereng   fntllbrfne   90
qui=eecs for al  countries eatablished by USDA provide for mismat                          197  eud 197  dana.                                ft..1I..
allnuce  f  t gam   ofcualpruoi  pe  dy ad  0  ram   o  anma  an  Prtcipatio Iate (pret) - total, male, and femal  - Participation  en
polar protein, of which lt g-am  ehoad he ainaI prtetin.  These stand-                    activity rates are coputed aa necal, mete,enfeaelhroces
urde are lower  cha tihua  of 71 gras of total protein end 23 gram  ofpercen.tages of seel  eats and femal  pepulatine of s,,eagS's.ssPeneivn
anial Protein asa   verage fur thr world, Pproposed by FAO In the Third                    1960, 1970, and 1970 data.  Trhea  ens  Ill's  participeties rates reflecting
World fodPre;1961-tO, 1971 end 1977 data.                                               -aeene uueo  tepplto.edln  time tred.  A few secti-
Per canita protein sPpoly from animal an   ue       r a           upyo  fo   e                aseaefrnnti,ofeth spnopsl.ti
rived iro  snimala  nd palenein gramsper dy  19160 971 ad 1977 data.    Econoie  Ieedsr Ratio  - Ratio of populerios under 10 and 65 and Iva
Child (eggs. -4)' tortaity Rate (pert.      ea.         Anua'dahs per ttuadt                   n   b   oalbrfre
age grop 1-  years, to children in thi  age group; for meet developing tatun-t                                    T--
cries dais derived from life sables; 19 60,1970 and 1977 dan.t.ICOMtEg DISTRIBUIOIN
HEALTH                                                                 ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prantees of Private Income (both in tech end bind) - Recive  bp riches
Life EsPeutanop an Ninth (yge)    Aerg  somber of poets of life remIin.g                       5 Percen, riches.t 2f       C Pattn, poorest 20 percent, and Postmn4i  pserst
atbrh  1960, 191  n  1978 dar,oftsshls
Isfa_t Mortality Rate lose thenasd) - Annual deaths of infant  under aeyea                 POvsTY TAunET teOUPS
of agp Pen tho..a.adlive births..NnetdAslt  oet  noeLvlfE   e   nia     ra   n   ua 
cAter. each aSf  Wtha   rnpeerdbrbis   pig,adssnrcte                                        fanimatd Relative Poverty Isc-m Levl(.          0rtc   is     ra   a    a 
pecnae   fter  rePecIv   pouaiosfsasubn  raapulcRaaetiive poverty income   vl IsCanthr  ofv aversgs_pe   aita
donthav  thoteeo  a   nrpaton p          art of .tho.:  tg"  'dayi  feItchin  th,lcaelPrltc,olnAslt Pv yicmelvl(otet)                                                ra
family'sg wateri needs,                                                                      a drea R.Peeci-        of. papala Li -I (Urba   and rural)sh  ar  "ebse-d    pee
pit privies asd smnIler ingeellaciunPe.ty    -   L   I  p.- t)      -b



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
ECONoKIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWfl M. Constant Prices)
US  HMln.       S                       1973-77              1977              1978
GNP at Market Prices                58800       100.0                         7.4                3.0               5.6
Gross Domestic Investment           18423         31.3                       30.9                6.4               7.8
Gross National Saving               14939         25.4                       17.7               -8.8               9.4
Current Account Balance            -3261          5.6                          -                  -                 _
Exports of Goods, NFS               12116         20.6                       _3,4               -1.8               7.1
Imports of Goods, NFS               14580         28.4                       36.0               21.5              -8.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                      Labor Force-                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                          HMln.      Z                    US 4
Agriculture                         13920         23.9                17.0      56.0                    819         43.0
Industry                            21922         37.7                 5,2      17.0                   4216        220.0
Services                            22318         38.4                 6.7      22.0                   3331        174.0
Unallocated                            _            _                   1.4      5.0                    _             -
Total/Average                  58160       100.0                 30.3    100.0                   1919        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                              Central Covernment
(N Mln.)            % of GDP                   (N Mln.)            X of GDP
1979/80    1978179   1967           7879/80    1978179   1976/77-1977/78
Current Receipts                     13288        19.5         34.4                   9805       12.2          20.0
Current Expenditure                   5428        13.1         15.7                   2890        6.9           8.0
Current Surplus                       7861          6.4        15r7                   6915        5.3          12.0
Capital Expenditures                  9095        18.3         30.0                   7320       11.7          18.9
External Assistance (net)
HOMEY , CREDIT AND PRICES                 1975          1976          1977            1978             1979          1980  2/
oCillion N Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                     4167          5732          7439           8087             10406         11502
Bank Credit to Public Sector              -608           653          2634           4105              3678          2494
Bank Credit to Private Sector             1798          2423          3465           4684              5413          5846
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP         25.1          26.9          28.8           n.a.              n.a.          n.a.
General Price Index (1960 - 100) 3/    289.6           352.4         423.1          492,5             550.0          n.a.
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                       33.5          23,9          15.4           16.5              11.8          n.a.
Bank Credit to Public Sector               ,,            ,,          303.4           55.8             -10.4         -32.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector             58.4          34.8          43.0           35,2              15.6           8.0
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Data cover the period June 1980.
3/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices up to 1977. National Price Index from 1978.
Not available.
Aprll 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-79)
1977      1978       1979                                        US$ Mln.    X
(Millio-ns US$) 
Exports of Goods, NFS              13,218    11,319    17,796          Crude Oil                         12,107    92.2
Imports of Goods, NFS              13,502    14,580    15,285          Cocoa Products                       640     4.9
Resource Gap (deficit - -)            -284    -3,261      2,511        Palm Products                         30     0.2
Tin                                   18     0.1
Interest Payments (net)                324        246     -247         All Other Commodities                332     2.6
Workers' Remittances                   -          -        -
Other Factor Payments (net)           -861       -474     -201                          Ttl1,2                     0.
Net Transfers                         -185      -269      -388                          Total            13,127   100.0
Balance on Current Account         -1,006    -3,758    1,675
Direct Foreign Investment              382        211      305         EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                         95     1,434    1,022                                              US$ Mln.
Amortization                         -61       -24       -38
Subtotal                              34     1,410       984        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         7,14!
Capital Grants                         -          -        -           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt           ..
Other Capital (net)                   -130      -151        10         Total outstanding & disbursed
Other items n.e.i                       48        -69      388
Increase in Reserves (+)              -672    -2,357    3,362          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-1
Gross Reserves (end year)                                                                                      %
Net Reserves (end year)              4,704      2,348    5,710
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed          1.7
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                                             Total outstanding & disbursed
of which:  Petroleum              199        275       343
Exports
of which:  Petroleum           10,963      8,505   16,877         IBRD/IDA LENDING (February 28, 1981)(Millions $)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                             IBRD    IDA
1976:  N1.00 = US$1.60                                                   Outstanding  & Disbursed           523.1   37.3
1977:  N1.00 = US$1.55                                                   Undisbursed                        612.8    -
1978:  N1.00 = US$1.57                                                   Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,135.9   37.3
1979:  N1.O0 = US$1.66
1980:  N1.00 - US$1.81
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Not Available
April 1981



- 27 -
ANNEX II
page 1 of 6
ThZ STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NItERIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of February 2d, 1981)
Loan or                                                            _      US$ million
Credit                                                          hAount (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower    Purposc                             Blnk    IDA    Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                     479.6   35.3
838      1972    Nigeria      Roads                               26.3             6.2
929      1973    Nigeria      Education                           54.0            39.4
1045      1974    Nigeria      Cocoa Dev.                          20.0              2.9
1091      1975    Nigeria      Livestock                           21.0            12.3
1092      1975    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Funtus                  29.0              0.7
1099      1975    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Gusau                   19.0              0.4
1103      1975    Nigeria      Rice Dev.                           17.5              6.3
1164      1975    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Gombe                   21.0              0.8
1183      1975    Nigeria      M.W. State Oil Palm                 29.5             20.9
1191      1976    Nigeria      E.C. State Oil Palm                 19.0            14.8
1192      1976    Nigeria      W. State Oil Palm                   17.0            11.8
1454      1977    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Lafia                   27.0             12.8
1455      1977    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Ayangba                 35.0             18.2
1591      1978    Nigeria      Nuc.Est. Smallholder Oil            30.0             25.1
1597      1978    NIDB          Industrial Dev.                    60.0             48.8
1667      1979    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Bida                    23.0             21.0
1668      1979    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Ilorin                  27.0             23.1
1679      1979    Nigeria      Forestry                            31.0             30.3
.1711      1979    Nigeria      Water Supply - Kaduna               92.0            91.4
1719      1979    Nigeria      Agric. & Rural Mgnt. Inst.           9.0              9.0
1766      1980    NEPA         Power - Lagos                      100.0            100.0
1767      1980    Nigeria      Urban Dev. - Bauchi                 17.8             17.8
*1838      1980    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Oyo-North              28.0            28.0
*1854      1980    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Ekiti-Akoko            32.5            32.5
1883      1980    Nigeria      Roads                              108.0            108.0
Total                                         1,373.2  35.3   682.5
Of which has been repaid                        167.9    2.4
Total outstanding                             1,205.3  32.9
Amount sold                   16.8
Of which has been repaid    16.8                   0.0
**Total now held by Bank & IDA                  1,205.3  32.9
Total undisbursed                                               682.5
B.  STATEHET OF IFC INVESTKENTS
(as of February 28, 1981)
Fiscal                                         Type of             Amount in US$ Million
Year                                          Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,   Arewa Textiles Ltd.              Textile Mfg.         1.0    0.6       1.6
1970
1964        Nigeria Industrial               Dev. Fin. Co.                1.4      1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973        Funtua Cottonseed                Veg. Oil             1.6              1.6
Crushing Ltd.                   Crushing
1973        Nigerian Aluminum                Aluminum             1.0    0.3       1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                  Processing
1974        Lafiagi Sugar                    Sugar                        0.1      0.1
Estates
1980        NTM                              Textiles             6.2    0.7       6.9
1981        Ikeja Hotel                      Tourim               7.6    2.3       9.9
Total Cross Commiteents                              17.4    5.4      22.8
Less cancellations                                  0.4             0.4
Less sold and repaid                               2-2               3.8
Total Coesitments now held by IYC                    14.8    3.8      18.6
Undisbursed                                           9.9    2.3      12.2
a Not yet eflective
** Prior to exchnnge rats sdjustments



ANNEX II
- 28 -                                Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _/
Loan No. 838-UNI    Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project has been completed, and final reimbursement claims
concerning the training of maintenance technicians and preparatory work
for the Sixth Highway Project are currently being processed by the Federal
Ministry of Works. As soon as these claims have been processed by the Bank,
any amounts undisbursed will be cancelled.
Loan No. 929-UNI    Third Education Project:  USS54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold. In FY79,
the scope of the project was reduced and the closing date was extended.
Project management has since then improved, but project progress is behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1045-UNI   Second Cocoa Project:  US$20 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project's planting targets have been fully achieved by all
four participating states.   Loan recovery performance has however surfaced
as a major problem. A tight "action program has been initiated, and
updating and reconciliation of farmer loan records has been completed.
Loan No. 1091-UNI   Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has improved. The project is now under
good management which has overcome most of the initial problems. Supporting
services are better organized, and credit is now being effectively channeled
through NACB.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 29 -                              Page 3
Loan No. 1092-UNI   Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976,
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation has been satisfactory with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates. An expanded second stage project to cover the
remainder of Kaduna State has been appraised.
Loan No. 1099-UNI   Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project has been completed with satisfactory support from
both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response has been good, and
appraisal objectives have been met and in some cases exceeded. A second
phase project to cover the remainder of Sokoto State has been appraised.
Loan No. 1103-UNI   Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25,
1974; Effective Date:  January 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31,1982
Project implementation made a slow start due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations.  The Bank has withdrawn from
the project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems
of cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. The remaining funds set
aside for Cross River State will be reallocated to project components in
Anambra and Imo States, where physical project progress and counterpart
funding are more satisfactory, and development is accelerating.
Loan No. 1164-UNI   Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29.
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project has been implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments and is virtually complete. A project
completion report is being prepared. It is proposed that the whole of Bauchi
State will be served by a second-stage project.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                             Page 4
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:  US$29.5
million Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:
October 17, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition, and completion of the
Federal and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal tar-
gets for the nucleus estate and smallholder components have not been met
due to delays in land acquisition as well as continuing financial and
managerial problems. The monitoring component has not been fully effective
because of staffing difficulties. The Bank has advised the Federal Govern-
ment that it will have no alternative but to formally halt disbursement
under the Loan in case no remedial action is taken by May 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the creation
of new states and problems with staffing. Project management and staffing
are now satisfactory, but appraisal planting targets have not been met and
the construction of palm oil mills has been delayed. Substantial cost over-
runs are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component continues to face financial difficul-
ties, and final targets may not be achieved. For the nucleus estate compo-
nent, land acquisition, management, and funding problems have delayed pro-
gress. Plantings are in poor condition and processing facilities are in-
adequate. Although actions to resolve these problems have been initiated by
the State Government, corrective action so far has been insufficient.  Con-
sequently, the Bank has recently advised the Federal and State Governments
that disbursements under the Loan had been suspended until further notice.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although local counterpart funding is now adequate, the project
is still experiencing some problems of a technical nature, particularly
concerning extension and training. However, overall project progress is
satisfactory.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                              Page 5
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project continues to improve with satisfactory support from
the Federal and State Governments. The most significant improvement is
the introduction of the Training and Visit system, which has enhanced the
impact of the extension services. Farmer participation and physical pro-
ject progress is good. Disbursements are also proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm
Project: US$30.0 million Loan of July 24, 1978;
Effective Date: July 10, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Loan effectiveness was delayed because of problems regarding
completion of the State Loan Agreement, a Management Agreement, and
Federal and State Legal Opinions. Physical progress is satisfactory, and
earlier funding problems have been overcome. The smallholder component
faces some managerial difficulties.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60
million Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date:
October 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
About 70 percent of the loan has been committed and about 12 percent
disbursed. Both are less than expected at the time of appraisal owing to
the investment climate in 1978/79 which was affected very much by the un-
certainties surrounding the change in government in late-1979. The invest-
ment climate has recently improved considerably, however, and it is expected
that the Loan will be fully committed before the end of this year.
Loan No. 1667-UNI   Bida Agricultural Development Project:  US$23 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1668-UNI   Ilorin Agricultural Development Project:  US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1679-UNI   Forestry Plantation Project:  US$31 million Loan of
October 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily. However, the Ogun State
component is being affected by inadequate state financing.



ANNEX II
-32-                              Page 6
Loan No. 1711-UNI   Kaduna Water Supply Project:  US$92 million Loan
of July 16, 1979; Effective Date: July 22, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation was impaired by some initial procurement
problems which are in the process of resolution.
Loan No. 1719-UNI   Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979; Effective
Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Management consultants are in the field, and project implementation
has been initiated.
Loan No. 1766-UNI   Lagos Power Distribution Project:  US$100 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; Effective Date: July 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 1767-UNI   Urban Development Project (Bauchi State):  US$17.8 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 1838-UNI   Oyo-North Agricultural Development Project:  US$28.0
million Loan of August 25, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
The Oyo State Government is making food progress toward meeting the
effectiveness conditions.
Loan No. 1854-UNI   Ekiti-Akoko Agricultural Development Project:  US$32.5
million Loan of December 15, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The Ondo State Government is making good progress toward meeting the
effectiveness conditions.
Loan No. 1883-UNI   Sixth Highway Project:  US$108 million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: December 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Contracts for the road strengthening works, the feasibility study
of the Calabar-Ikom road, and the training of maintenance technicians have
been awarded, and the project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial
stages.



ANNEX III
- 33 -                            Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Kano Agricultural Development Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 2 years
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Federal Government
(Agricultural Projects, Monitoring, Evaluation, and Planning Unit)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: July 1977
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: November 1977
(e) Date of departure of the appraisal mission: May 2, 1980
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: November 26, 1980
rg) Planned date of effectiveness: August 31, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank's Agricultural Projects Management Unit for West Africa would
assist in engaging key internationally-recruited staff to help execute
the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Federal
Government and the Kano State Government (Condition of Effective-
ness; para. 57);
(b) Gazetting establishment of Kano Agriculture and Rural Development
Executive Committee and Kano Agricultural Program Management Unit
(KNAPMU) in a form and with powers and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank (Condition of Effectiveness: paras. 46 and 48);
(c) Establishing the Kano Agricultural Supply Company (KASCO) including
the payment of N3 million in equity by the Kano State Government
(Condition of Effectiveness; para. 49);
(d) Appointment of program manager and thirteen additional key experts
for KNAPMU and KASCO with qualifications and experience, and on
terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank (Condition of Effec-
tiveness; para. 52);
(e) Arranging satisfactorily for recruitment of other key project
staff for KNAPMU (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 52);



ANNEX III
- 34 -                            Page 2 of 2
(f) Opening of commercial bank account for KNAPMU with initial deposits of
N3 million each by Federal and Kano State Governments (Condition of
Effectiveness; para. 58);
(g) Kano State Government guarantee overdraft on KNAPMU-s commercial bank
account up to equivalent of three months' project expenditures require-
ments (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 58);
(h)  Drafting of 1981 Action Plan by Kano State Government, detailing
specific investments and project activities proposed for the first
project year (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 48);
(i) Annual review by Kano State Government with KNAPMU and local government
councils of arrangements for the maintenance of roads and water supply
facilities provided under the project and for requisite staff training
and funding (para. 43);
(j) Kano State Government contribute up to NO.5 million to the working
capital of cooperative unions and primary societies (para. 50);
(k) Not later than December 31, 1984, recommendation by Kano State Govern-
ment for post-project activities and organization (para. 55);
(1) Deduction by Federal Government of necessary state contributions from
federal statutory allocations to Kano State should Kano State fail to
provide adequate and timely financing (para. 58);
(m) Annual review by Kano State Government with KASCO and Bank of KASCO-s
cost recovery policies and practices (para. 59); and
(n) Federal Government supply adequate and timely amounts of fertilizer
to Kano State for project (para. 60).



I B R D 15065R
:::: Pi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGERIA
__:%;:~~~~774,u:  W7;i    it U    2  ~ ~         ~           ~          t~&IBRD Assisted AgriCUltural Projects
lurk0 ::;tui      ,                 rd: =   4   *Completed and Appraised
Ng.o.                                                     o                     Agricultural Development Projects
COMPLETED;
Fotu. (Loon 1092 - UNI)
5TA TE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gcou ( Loo 1099-UNI1
m  .EISI'Gombe (Loo 1164- UN I)
r              .<0    S  kib  Ayogbo (Lo.onl155-UNI)
P2t,_k-                              IDUGURI                              Bido (Loon. 1667- UNI)
: 7 =A                                                                                                                              I.r in tLo.in      166-UNI)
Oyo North (Loon IR38-UNI]
Ekiti Akhoholo_nl854-UNII
Bo-hi Stor
APPRAISED:
-e  ;=  =  =  >  =eJe>o/ i w=3  SG  E  1< _ t_ /mW= _ Imo Stcte~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~toon  Sat
Sokoto Stole
M-bsillo
UNDER PREPARATION:
A                                   Anosnbro Store
)t VV _ if a > /J _J XB q q L~~~I  G       E                                                                                                                                                       E''''EM$1CO I. A 1t5- : 
2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                                                          redel North
I$At?~~~~~~        Btorno State
op.,- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivets Store
TOLA   .        .E II D S 1   )   -]   BR' S fi  ;  Training Projects:
Ag6krsltro  end Rorol
M.oengeetent Troiineg tesitote
Orsfh                                                                                                                                                                                                         t of  (erren \t~, S *  D  m  ;Cu        ffi         W     '     w     [iL'||4%l ......................17......................................................9.....................................UNI............................. jolul: * ........ R e LcnIto103-1UNI)
V 4H iA ; @/;<  S  ^E5DE    a WlGERIAte    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING  kOUhnCce
Y 0                                                                                                                                                                                            Tree Crop Prnojec t _ )  XstngRtogr-s FJ O~Aeoo
*  ~~~~~~. ~~~Cocoa I (Loa n 764 - UN II(nd
-'                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coco  01 (Loan 1045 -UNI(
t5i                       Ondo Gil Palm, (Loon1t92- UNI)
Rendel Oil Palm (Loon 1183-UJNII
- J I                                                             A -ANGB                                      n. l.                   orhOil Palm (Loon 1191 -UN I(
AREORUT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ric-rs State Oil PaIm(Loon 1525 -UN[)
F-:I  Pretry (Loon 1679- UNII
APPRAISED:
Po N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~S                                   TTt       1 MA       a,tosodthJs~G                                                                                          Coco III
Rodegri~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~T577~                       nf    AEZamne                                                                                                                                 Cross Riner Stote Estate [Gil PolmI
Qatenoim  LA  G 0 5  b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4EENIN   A     +  ~~ ~~~~~kIrrigation Projecti
I    r,EXISTING
E  E ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~f A                                                                                               bit*RicelL.on1103-UNI(
0~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~4 4 er nvoocnaOtt                                        j-                                             Livestock Development Project:
H RCOUR               L                                                                                                           u~~c  :  u~np t    :- vmJecI~~  .  NotionalI Livetock Produoion Co, R-ohea
Gulf oi Gulnea ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NiEU Wester Lionsock Co. Ranchos
~~  rer~5    A       North-Eastern Co Ranhes
5   .       N       ~~~~Animal/ Pastor Inetigation Contar.
Sight  of   Bon                                               O t    o -A/ncCo                                                         I    Gracig Renerve - Py,lon Group Ranhes






1R D) 15162R
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~RI
T--
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                T -                                                     N I GS  E R I AINW    J 
'  x m oreo*s T O F A   I AN o r u    V T /    < \          /       \ )              A U  G  A  t ;                     H A  C E , ,/KA N
ICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.-    I   tt  *Cv  O2@VVVb VS9                          m           ;                              ef j            r                g                  
R~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  Prtc Toa                                                                     AGR*LUnI dorias*BEC
VTTTO  T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I.~~~~~R                                                    
BTTV,TP N                                                                            TG>nnZecT  B-S d-
P R-                                                        0~~~~~~~-
t_ /    H   l ~N  I G  E  R  I  A                                                -  ) r,.,    F.d.,.l Cf-105  R-4d         L.- G---t H..dg-
-I_Tern -Tional Bound-ry
I                                    , ,VV5V, aA bnoN



