                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No:ICR0000352




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (MULT-27826)




                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$0.95 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                   DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE

                                       FOR A

          ECONOMIC INSTITUTIONS CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                                   June 27, 2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Papua New Guinea/Pacific Islands/ East Timor Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       Currency Unit = US Dollar


            FISCAL YEAR

            July 1 to June 30

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



     Vice President: James W. Adams
   Country Director: Nigel Roberts
     Sector Director: Deepak Bhattasali, Acting
Project Team Leader: Cyrus P. Talati
  ICR Team Leader: Cyrus P. Talati

                         Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
      ECONOMIC INSTITUTIONS CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT



                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 9
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 9
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 11
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 11
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 13
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 14
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 16
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 17
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 18
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 19
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 20
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 21
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 22
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Economic Institutions
Country:                Timor-Leste           Project Name:          Capacity Building
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P072461               L/C/TF Number(s):      MULT-27826
ICR Date:               06/28/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              UNTAET
Original Total
                        USD 1.0M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 0.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
MInistry of Planning and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/10/2000    Effectiveness:         05/21/2001         05/21/2001
Appraisal:             11/10/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/09/2001    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:               06/30/2002         06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      Satisfactory


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                100               100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting                   Primary           Primary
Macroeconomic management                                        Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         Nigel Roberts                       Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:           Sanjay K. Dhar                      Homi Kharas
Project Team Leader:      Cyrus P. Talati                     Cyrus P. Talati
ICR Team Leader:          Cyrus P. Talati
ICR Primary Author:       Thang-Long Ton



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO was to assist in strengthening the capacity of the government in evaluating
economic options and designing and implementing economic policies through the
training of relevant staff as soon as possible.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There was no revision of PDOs

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
                                                approval         Target       Completion or
                                              documents)         Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Timorese staff trained in basic concepts of budgeting, & econ.



                                                ii

               IFMIS being utilized for government cash management.
               National accounts prepared.
Value
quantitative or Data not available        57 staff trained.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/03/2000                  12/15/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally    Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                     Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised    Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Improved economic management capacity exists.
                There were virtually no
Value           Timorese staff working in
(quantitative   the economic institutions n/a
or Qualitative) at appraisal and
                negotiations.
Date achieved 12/03/2001                  06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP             Disbursements
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     11/01/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.10
  2     12/21/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.20
  3     05/02/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.34
  4     12/20/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.44
  5     06/20/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.53
  6     06/26/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.58
  7     12/30/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.58
  8     06/24/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.60
  9     12/22/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.81
  10    06/20/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.90
  11    12/21/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.90



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


                                               iii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           iv

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

In 2000, on the eve of the appraisal of the Economic Institutions Capacity Building project
(EICB), Timor-Leste was entering a post-conflict period in transition to independence under the
United Nations Transitional Administration for East Timor (UNTAET). The UNTAET was
established in November 1999 with wide powers to act as the legal state during the transition
period and to create national institutions. Given the widespread destruction of physical
infrastructure resulting from the conflict and the withdrawal of the Indonesian civil administration,
the overwhelming priority was for reconstruction but as if in the wake of a natural-disaster
whereby a large proportion of buildings and crops had been destroyed and all records and
institutional memory lost.

An international effort was organized to provide assistance to the country. The first meeting of
donors for East Timor was held in Tokyo in December 1999 and the financing requirements for
humanitarian assistance and the initial phase of reconstruction were amply covered by donor
commitments. A UN administered trust fund was established to finance government
administration. A separate trust fund, the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET), was established in
1999 by donors to be administered jointly by the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank
(ADB). The purpose of TFET was to finance a program of reconstruction which had been
identified through the World Bank-led Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) of 1999. The program
was to be carried out by the World Bank and the ADB. The EICB was funded through TFET
which was governed by the Special Financing Procedures for Timor-Leste approved by the World
Bank.

UNTAET set about recruiting the personnel needed to fill positions in the transitional
administration to manage and operate the institutional machinery of a modern state.
Simultaneously, UNTAET established a Timorese counterpart structure, the National
Consultative Council (NCC), with representation of the different political forces in the territory.
During most of the UNTAET mandate the vast majority of positions in the transitional
administration were staffed by expatriates in view of the absence of Timorese with the required
skills. Progress in solving the immediate problems of the population such as housing and school
rebuilding was slow and there emerged popular dissatisfaction with the lack of local influence in
decision-making. In mid-2000, UNTAET responded by replacing the NCC with a larger and
more formally organized National Council that began to function as a precursor to a national
parliament. A stronger effort was made to recruit locals for positions in the administration.

The country was, however, confronted with a serious scarcity of individuals with the requisite
skills at all levels, especially for evaluating economic options and for designing and
implementing a well coordinated set of economic policies. While the international recruitment of
expatriates by the UNTAET helped to staff the emerging government economic institutions as a
temporary stop-gap measure, the scarcity of needed skills in Timor-Leste constrained the
effective operations of key economic and financial institutions. Substantial training of national
staff would be needed to develop the domestic capacity needed to run these institutions
effectively.




                                                   1

The rationale for World Bank support was to help develop and strengthen the nascent technical
capacity as quickly as possible, providing a needed boost in institutional capacity-building
measures to enable Timor-Leste to address the serious gap in special skills required for the
functioning of a modern state. In the absence of a Country Assistance Strategy a Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS), discussed by the Board on November 28, 2000, guided Bank operations
in the country at the time of project preparation. Training in economic policy analysis to
strengthen local capacity for economic management and a strong approach to budget management
were identified as priorities by the JAM. Subsequent World Bank and IMF work reaffirmed this
need.

An extremely weak human resource base and institutional capacity was and continues to be a
critical development issue in Timor-Leste which cannot be resolved in the short run. The World
Bank has prepared the Planning and Financial Management Capacity Building project in
recognition of this. The EICB needs to be seen as taking a small step in the process of capacity
building.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The PDO was to assist in strengthening the capacity of the government in evaluating economic
options and designing and implementing economic policies through the training of relevant staff
as soon as possible.

The key indicators (or planned outcomes of the project) as originally approved were:
     · Central Fiscal Authority and Central Payments Office staff participating in applied
         economic analysis training.
     · Greater Timorese involvement in preparation of the FY2001/02 budget than was the case
         with the FY2000/01 budget.
     · Timorese leadership in preparation and execution of the FY2002/03 budget and high
         quality budget submissions.
     · Chart of accounts and asset register established for the future Government of East Timor.
     · Sufficient information support from the Research and Statistics Unit for budget
         preparation and policy analysis.

The key performance indicators, as originally approved, were:
     · Number of staff trained in finance, economics and public expenditure analysis
     · Integrated government accounting system established
     · Number of government departments/agencies utilizing the integrated government
         accounting system
     · Number of staff trained in the use of the integrated government accounting system
     · Baseline macroeconomic aggregates established for Timor-Leste.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There was no revision of the PDO and Key Indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,




                                                  2

(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The primary beneficiaries are government officials who received training. But all the people in
Timor-Leste would benefit from the maintenance of sound economic policies, application of good
budgetary practices and the increase in national sovereignty over economic policy making.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The original components are as follow:
  1. Training
      · Sub-Component 1. Foundations of Applied Economic Analysis ­ Macroeconomics and
          Microeconomics.
      · Sub Component 2. Foundations of Applied Economic Analysis ­ International
          Economics, Public Finance, Monetary, Agricultural Economics.
      · Sub-Component 3: Public Expenditure Management, Budgetary Processes and Project
          Analysis.
      · Sub-Component 4: On the job, economic analysis and policy making.

  2. Establishment of an integrated government accounting system.

  3. Compilation of main macroeconomic aggregates at current and constant prices for
      1999-2000.

1.6 Revised Components

The Training component (1) above, was revised following an assessment of a sample of potential
trainees. That assessment found that the skill level and capacity of public servants was far lower
than originally envisaged with most not possessing the requisite baseline skills for the planned
training in more advanced concepts. As a result of this finding the Training component was
designed at the appropriate level, to respond to the needs of the trainees, albeit a much more basic
level.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

In October 2002, the grant amount was increased by $100,000 to finance an increased scope in
the size of the macroeconomic aggregates component through the Supplemental Grant Agreement
TF027826/Supplement dated June 23, 2002.

In December 2003, additional financing of $350,000 was made available through the Amending
Grant Agreement TF027826/Amendment for two additional activities. This did not, however,
change the PDO, which remained as originally envisaged, i.e., strengthening the government
capacity in the key economic institutions of the country. The first additional activity covered an
extension of the earlier work on macroeconomic aggregates for which the key indicators
remained the same. The second component was to provide support for capacity building in the
preparation and implementation of national-level fuel procurement policies.



                                                  3

Extensions: The original closing date of December 31, 2002, was extended 5 times:
    · September 30, 2003 (9-month request)
    · March 31, 2004 (9-month request)
    · March 31, 2005 (12-month request)
    · December 31, 2005 (9-month request)
    · June 30, 2006 (6-month request)

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Three factors were dominant in their influence on implementation and outcomes:

(a) Failure to adequately assess the capacity building needs, which could not have been mitigated
as the formal structure of an East Timorese government was not in place at the time of design and
preparation. Furthermore, there were lengthy delays in establishing the parameters of the
structure of the government-to-be (a negotiation between the UN and Timorese) and the
subsequent recruitment of public servants.

(b) High turnover on the government side, which resulted in a failure to establish counterparts and
stronger ownership, as all such personnel were expatriates.

(c) An absence of the necessary base-level technical skills required to institutionalize the practice
and work on the macroeconomic aggregates.

The Quality at Entry Assessment Panel Report reviewed the project in June 2001 upon the
project's effectiveness and rated it satisfactory overall. The Panel considered as a strong attribute,
the reasonable scale of the project and the preparation to achieve the limited objectives, including
some "good adjustments to the very difficult environment" for implementation. The Panel
recommended that as the situation in Timor-Leste stabilized the longer term strategy for capacity
building would need to be spelled out clearly and to be clarified over time and sustainability
needs to be given more emphasis. The Panel suggested that "close supervision during the
implementation period would be essential."

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Lags in implementation were due in large measure to capacity issues and to a lesser degree to the
need for and process surrounding additional financing at the time. These did not, however,
adversely affect outcomes but certainly contributed to the continued need for extensions of the
closing date.

Overall, project implementation proceeded reasonably well, considering the rapidly evolving
environment, especially with respect to the Transitional Administration, related arrangements and
the subsequent transition to a national administration. The ICR rates project implementation as
satisfactory.


                                                  4

On the Bank side, there was a high degree of continuity with the same task manager in-place from
the design phase and throughout implementation until completion. The oversight during
implementation was conducted from the regional field office and the proximity this offered was a
positive factor in terms of improved responsiveness as the evolving situation warranted.

Despite the close monitoring project implementation proved to be an ongoing challenge. Bank
counterparts on the government side were constantly changing and the task team had to work
with numerous different officials overseeing the project at one time or another during its
implementation. The majority of these were expatriates employed by the UNTAET to fill the gap
in qualified Timorese.

The Training Component of the project was successfully concluded in 2003. The formal training
program, which was concluded in February 2003, included four two-week courses covering nine
topics on financial management and procurement. The total number of participants for these
courses was 57 officials, (approximately one-third of whom were women). Due to the delays in
establishing a structure of government and then in filling vacancies, the training did not
commence until October 2002 with the first batch of candidates trained in November-December
2002. Participants reported a high degree of satisfaction and indicated a desire for further training
and support related to their actual functions.

These courses served as the logical building block for the subsequent on-the-job
training/mentoring activity under this component, which provided support in the use of computer
software programs such as word processing, spreadsheet analysis, presentation tools, and on
financial management and procurement issues. Resources were also made available to train a
small group of officials from the Budget Office, Treasury, and Procurement to be trainers in order
to strengthen sustainability prospects for this component.

Despite the late start, this component was implemented smoothly. The on-the-job training and
train-the-trainer sub-components were rated effective and well received by the authorities.

The Integrated Government Accounting System has been operational since 2001. It was initially
selected and installed on an emergency basis for cash management purposes by the UN
administration and subsequently evolved into the government's central financial management
system. The project supported that evolution following emerging needs for additional functions
and demands for better information.

The system is now in daily use by Department of Treasury staff, of the Ministry of Planning and
Finance. The project helped train 40-50 nationals working mainly in the Treasury in its use.
Training was also provided to finance officers in other government agencies. There were some
delays during implementation due to the frequent changes in the structure of the government
affecting, for example, the finalization of the chart of accounts. Other issues that arose during
implementation involved fine-tuning requirements for the system for reporting and formats of
reports, and the resulting cost increases. Other issues included system IT infrastructure, such as
poor system connections and recentralization of the system as a result of the removal of servers
and network hardware upon the departure of the UN mission following the completion of its
mandate. Most of these issues were resolved satisfactory during the implementation.

In addition to provision of training in its use, this activity supported preparation of a Chart of
Accounts, extension of the General Ledger, compilation of an Asset Register and implementation
of an asset module and a procurement module.


                                                    5

The Macroeconomic Aggregates Component, supported activities to compile the national
accounts, which were completed satisfactorily in two phases. The first phase was completed
satisfactorily in 2003 with a baseline set of nationals accounts compiled for 2000 (and 1999) and
an extensive training program undertaken with the staff of the National Statistics Directorate. A
second phase undertaken with the additional financing granted in 2002 supported the compilation
of the national accounts for 2001-2003 and some related training. These were completed and
finalized in August 2005 with the publication of a government report. Parallel financing and
other support from the New Zealand Statistical Office emerged during implementation. This
work allowed the country's economic performance to be recorded and assessed with a higher
degree of precision and confidence than previously possible, and is considered to have provided
valuable inputs to government policy makers and development partners. The government
expressed a considerable degree of satisfaction with this component and the National Statistics
Directorate will benefit further from -up support under the Planning and Financial Management
Capacity Building project.

The Fuel Procurement Policies Component sought to provide the government with the necessary
expert technical assistance to review and establish an appropriate policy framework for national
level fuel procurement, particularly to meet power generation needs and to implement it. The
intention was to achieve a lasting reduction in the cost of fuel and inter alia electricity, while
improving reliability. This activity experienced delays as a result of unforeseen circumstances
which also necessitated the final extension of the closing date (to June 30, 2006). First, the initial
studies under the project resulted in a government decision to change the work plan as fuel
storage issues surfaced which needed to be addressed. Thereafter there were numerous changes
to the procurement approach, i.e., from a competitive to a non-competitive bidding process, to a
restrictive two-stage bidding exercise to an unrestricted competitive bid. Furthermore, the
bidding process had to be extended due mainly to overwhelming demand for detailed technical
information from the bidders. Ultimately the bidding process failed to identify a single
conforming bidder and the plans for a single national fuel supplier were abandoned. Nonetheless,
as a result of the government efforts to change the nature of the fuel supply situation, one new
fuel supplier entered the market generating competition with the incumbent monopoly supplier
and this resulted in a reduction in the price of fuel.

Extensions. There were five extensions for this project. In hindsight, the original closing date
which was established as two years after project approval was ambitious -- given the difficult
environment -- for a TA project focusing on jump-starting government capacity. Moreover, the
additional components inevitably necessitated further extensions in order for the government to
carry out and complete the new activities and components in a reasonable amount of time.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The indicators selected to monitor project implementation were useful in measuring progress and
project outcomes.

Training: The number of trained officials was tracked during implementation of the training
component.

Government Accounting System: The implementation of this component was monitored through
measuring progress in (i) establishing a Chart of Accounts; (ii) adopting specific modules
(General Ledger, Procurement Module, Assets Module); (iii) generating and utilizing customized
reports; (iv) decentralization of the system beyond the Ministry of Planning and Finance; and (v)
provision of training. More than 50 staff (mainly in the Treasury) received training, to manage


                                                   6

and maintain the system for cash management, budget execution, and monitoring and
procurement.

Macroeconomic Aggregates: This activity was effectively monitored with the milestones clearly
defined through the compilation of the national accounts estimates first for 1999-2000 as the
baseline and then for the period 2001-2003. An extensive training program was conducted during
the first phase to institutionalize the compilation of the macroeconomic aggregates in the National
Statistics Directorate but the post-training evaluation concluded that sustainability of this training
effort was not likely given the extremely weak technical skills. The government found this
activity satisfactory.

Fuel Procurement Plan: This activity was monitored through a series of established steps
covering, technical studies, preparation of a procurement strategy and its execution.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

As there were no environmental and social safeguard compliance issues the project was
designated as a category C project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The government accounting system serves as the platform for the recently approved Planning and
Financial Management Capacity Building project to expand, consolidate, rationalize and broaden
the existing financial management information system.

The macroeconomic aggregates component is also expected to receive follow-up support through
the Planning and Financial Management Capacity Building project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project development objective, "to assist in strengthening the capacity of East Timor in
evaluating economic options and designing and implementing economic policies through the
training of relevant East Timorese staff," remains relevant to current and ongoing country
priorities and more broadly, global priorities in the context of fostering economic development.
The objectives were consistent with the strategy in place at the time as well as with the strategy in
effect now.

Similarly the design and implementation which relied on in-country training, placed an emphasis
on training trainers, follow up on-the-job training and mentoring was relevant and appropriate

The project has helped begin to address the country's foremost priority in capacity building: to
jump start the capacity of government officials in the economic institutions with basic knowledge
in budget, financial and economic management issues while providing the necessary institutional



                                                   7

tools (government accounting system, national accounts, and fuel procurement services) to
facilitate the capacity building activities. These were consistent with the Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS)1 which identified building institutions and capacity as a key challenge for the
country and proposed that selection of activities for World Bank support be guided by provision
of research and capacity building in key policy areas, stressing the need to undertake advisory,
analytical and capacity building support to the government.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The project development objectives were broadly achieved with (i) the training of relevant
government staff working on economic policies and decision-making and providing them with
some basic tools required to improve their on-the-job performance; (ii) training and provision of
tools to prepare, execute and monitor budgetary performance through the integrated government
accounting system in the Treasury; (iii) on the-job-training to enable retention and sustainability
of this capacity in the economic agencies; (iv) compilation of the country's first post-conflict
national accounts and related training for staff of the National Statistics Directorate; and (v)
capacity building support for the preparation and implementation of national level fuel
procurement policies.

The training component contributed to the achievement of the PDOs with respect to economic
and budgetary management. There were undoubtedly improvements in capacity through the
training of civil servants, as the human resource base was extremely weak. Nonetheless, the
satisfactory outcomes in budget management and monitoring, economic policy making, national
accounts estimation, and an improved environment for fuel supply are all positive indicators of
the project. These outcomes are difficult to quantify and assess in isolation.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Not applicable

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project rating is justified through the achievements in terms of improving and strengthening
capacity of the government in the economic ministries and agencies in general, given the near
absence of capacity in these ministries and agencies which relied entirely on expatriates on the
eve of the project.

The "moderately satisfactory" status reflects (i) delays in project implementation; (ii) the degree
of sustainability in the training for the longer term; (iii) the sustained applicability and adoption



1        Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association to the Executive
Directors on a Transitional Support Strategy for East Timor, Report No. 21184-TP, November 2, 2000.




                                                     8

of the government accounting system to all ministries and agencies; and most importantly, the
extremely low level of technical skills and capacity evident in the public service.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

There was no direct effect from the project on poverty, gender and social development although
an effort was made to ensure gender balance through the training component. The project did,
however, also provide some indirect benefits to the country through the improvement in the
government financial management system resulting in better resource allocation, strengthened
accountability and better economic decision making.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project helped to train government staff in basic concepts of budgeting, and economic
management. Their on-the-job performance has undoubtedly improved but given the extremely
low levels of skills and capacity inherent in the country and the limited nature of this project, the
impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development are unclear. It needs to be
acknowledged that capacity development remains a key development challenge for Timor-Leste
given its human resource base.

The national accounts have been established and serve as the basis on which the National
Statistics Directorate can build on in future years. Some improvements in capacity of the
management and staff of the NSD have been achieved but there still remains much to be done in
this regard. The impact of this activity on longer term capacity and institutional development is
unlikely given the post-training assessment of the staff which indicated extremely weak capacity.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

In the fuel procurement component, an unintended outcome was the entry into the domestic
market of another fuel supplier which resulted in a reduction of the overall price of fuel in the
country.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate to Significant.

The risk to the Development Outcome is "Moderate to Significant" given the following factors in
the current environment of the country:

     · The recent civil conflict in Timor-Leste has placed further strains on civil administration
         and government;
     · Stability in the government or the country could be lower than expected which would in
         turn downgrade the risk rating to significant;



                                                  9

      · Over-reliance on one or a few staff for the operation of the government accounting
          system, could be a source of risk;
      · Government officials trained under the project may leave the government for better
          opportunities in the private sector.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR rates Bank performance as satisfactory. The project was designed to address some
critical needs of the country while taking into account the special situation and challenging
environment by keeping the components simple to better meet project objectives. The project
also had some built-in flexibility to respond efficiently to the changing demands and needs of the
authorities during implementation. The project received a Quality at Entry review rating of
"satisfactory" for being "reasonably scaled and appropriately prepared to achieve the limited
objectives."

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project team, led by the Senior Economist, was responsive and the Bank responded in a
timely manner to the changes and developments throughout the project implementation period.
For example, the various requests from government to extend the closing dates, change
procurement methods, and to provide supplemental and then additional funding. The posting to
the field of the Task Team leader also considerably shortened the distance of travel to Timor-
Leste and allowed more attention to be accorded to issues that arose from the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The project benefited a great deal on the Bank side with the continuity of the same task manager
from the design period, throughout implementation until completion and closure. Despite the
difficult environment in which implementation took place and several requests for extension, the
project was brought to a successful conclusion and fulfilled the initial and the amended project
development objectives. It contributed modestly to building skills and providing systems for
institutional capacity building.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the authorities was relatively satisfactory considering the challenging and
uncertain environment and limited prior experience of working with external organizations. It is



                                                 10

also worth noting that many of the senior Timorese officials, during the period of implementation,
were expatriates from a diversity of social and technical backgrounds.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The project was launched under the stewardship of the Central Fiscal Authority, the pre-cursor to
the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Project management staff were drawn from existing staff
of the Ministry. Later, in the post-independence period project management came formally under
the Ministry of Planning and Finance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The authorities were clearly learning by doing in the preparation and implementation of this
project and have benefited from the experience. The project was carried to a satisfactory
completion, despite the considerable challenges during a period of rapid economic, social and
political change, and without prior experience of dealing with international institutions and their
requirements.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

    · Extremely weak capacity remains a critical development issue facing Timor-Leste, which
        cannot be resolved in the short term and this project needs to be seen as taking a small
        step in the process of capacity building.
    · Post-conflict settings are not conducive to designing, preparing and implementing
        operations to support human resources development, especially when there is an external
        transitional authority charged with government responsibilities. In such environments,
        task teams need to maintain a high degree of flexibility with respect to specific
        components and implementation timings.
    · A phased approach to the strengthening of government capacity with simple and
        manageable outcomes which would build on and strengthen each other to achieve
        sustainability in the overall objectives.
    · The project benefited from the continuity of having the same task manager from the start
        to finish. This has also helped maintain the momentum.
    · The numerous changes in government counterparts challenged the task team to maintain
        the project on-track.
    · Considerable time and effort are required to develop and build up the human resource
        base, strengthen public institutions and transfer knowledge.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

        The Recipient did not raise any issues (see Annex 7).




                                                 11

(b) Cofinanciers

       None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           12

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

INTEGRATED GOVT.
ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS                       0.155              0.170          109.7

NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                        0.100              0.400          400.0
TRAINING                                 0.210              0.200          0.950
FUEL PROCUREMENT
POLICIES                               n/a                  0.150          100.0

OTHER (AUDIT)                            0.025              0.025          100.0


            Total Baseline Cost          0.490              0.920          187.8

Physical Contingencies                   0.000              0.000          0.000

Price Contingencies                      0.010              0.00           0.000

             Total Project Costs         0.500              0.92           184.0
Project Preparation Fund               n/a                n/a                n/a
Front-end fee IBRD                     n/a                n/a                n/a
      Total Financing Required           0.500              0.920          184.0




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            0.00          0.00          0.00
Special Financing                                   0.50          0.95       100.00




                                           13

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Outputs by components are described below:

The training component of the project was successfully completed in 2003. The formal
training program, which was concluded in February 2003, included four two-week
courses covering nine topics on financial management and procurement. The total
number of participants for these courses was 57 officials, (approximately one-third of
whom were women). Due to considerable delays in deciding on the structure of
government and the subsequent recruitment of staff into government agencies, the
training did not begin until October 2002 with the first batch of candidates trained in
November-December 2002. When the project was originally conceived, it was envisaged
that the training component would comprise fairly high level technical content, to provide
a boost to already existing skills. An assessment of staff conducted ahead of the planned
training, however, revealed that nascent technical skills and capacity were largely absent.
In response, the training component was redesigned and tailored to take account of these
findings and be responsive to the needs of the trainees. Participants reported a high
degree of satisfaction and indicated a desire for further training and support related to
their actual functions.

The course work served as a logical building block for the on-the-job training/mentoring
activity under this component, covering computer software programs such as word
processing, spreadsheet analysis, presentation tools, and financial management and
procurement issues. A small group of officials from the Budget Office, Treasury, and
Procurement also received coaching to enable them to conduct subsequent training
sessions.

The integrated government accounting system has been operational from 2001 onwards.
It was initially selected and installed as an emergency solution to the pressing need to
manage and control revenues and expenditures for the UN administration and
subsequently as the government's central financial management system. The project
helped build further on this system following emerging needs for additional functions and
demands for better information.

The system is now in daily use by the Treasury Department staff. The project helped
train 40-50 nationals working mostly in the Treasury. Training was also provided to
Financial Officers in other agencies. There were some delays during implementation
arising from the changes in the structure of the government which affected the
finalization of the chart of accounts. Other issues that arose during the implementation
involved fine-tuning requirements for the system for reporting and formats of reports, and
the resulting cost increases. Others included system IT infrastructure, including poor
system connections and the recentralization of the system due to the removal of servers
and network infrastructure upon the departure of the UN mission. Most of these issues
were resolved satisfactorily during implementation.



                                              14

Macroeconomic Aggregates. The activities under this component were completed
satisfactorily in two phases. The first phase was complete in 2003 with a baseline set of
nationals accounts compiled for 1999 and 2000. An extensive program of training was
also designed and delivered around this component to the staff of the National Statistics
Directorate to provide them the skills and tools required to undertake this work
independently in the future. The assessment of the trainers, however, was that the
sustainability of the training element of this program was unlikely, given the extremely
low level of technical skills of the staff and the relatively high technical demands of such
work.

The second phase financed with additional funding granted in 2002 supported the
compilation of the national accounts for 2001-2003 as well as some revisions to baseline
accounts of 2000. Limited training was also provided during this exercise. The national
accounts work was completed and finalized in August 2005 with a report published by
government. Delays in the completion of this component were related to parallel
financing from the New Zealand Statistical Office. This work enabled the country's
economic performance and prospects to be better understood and with greater precision
and confidence than before. The government rated this component satisfactory and
follow-up support under the Planning and Financial Management Capacity Building
project is expected.

Fuel policies and procurement component sought to provide the government with the
necessary technical assistance to review and establish an appropriate policy framework
for national level fuel procurement and to implement the same. This experienced some
delays resulting from a number of unanticipated factors which necessitated the final
extension of the project closing date (to June 30, 2006). First, based on the initial studies
fuel storage issues emerged which needed to be addressed. Then there were numerous
changes to the procurement approach for the component, i.e., from a competitive bid
process to a non-competitive bid to a restrictive two-stage bidding exercise to an
unrestricted competitive bid. Finally, the bidding process had to be extended largely due
to the overwhelming demand for technical information by potential bidders especially
with regard to fuel storage facilities. In the event, the process failed to identify a single
conforming bid and the planed approach to national level procurement was abandoned.
Nonetheless, one outgrowth of the fairly open and public approach taken with the
technical studies and procurement work, a new supplier of fuel to the domestic market
emerged providing some competition to the incumbent monopoly supplier.




                                              15

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable




                                        16

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                       Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Cyrus P. Talati          Task team leader                   EASPR TTL
David Michael Chandler   Sr Financial Management Specialist EAPCO Finance
Cristiano Costa e Silva
Nunes                    Procurement Spec.                  EAPCO Procurement

Bruce Pollock            Consultant                         EASPR IT Specialist
Barry Trembath           Consultant                         SASEI Power Engineer

Supervision/ICR
Cyrus P. Talati          Task team leader                   EASPR TTL
David Michael Chandler   Sr Financial Management Specialist EAPCO Finance
Cristiano Costa e Silva
Nunes                    Procurement Spec.                  EAPCO Procurement

Bruce Pollock            Consultant                         EASPR IT Specialist
Barry Trembath           Consultant                         SASEI Power Engineer

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                       7                         19.80
  FY02                                       7                         21.40
  FY03                                       5                         17.05
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
                         Total:            19                          58.25
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                  0.00
  FY02                                                                  3.71
  FY03                                                                  1.62
  FY04                                       2                         20.77
  FY05                                       2                         13.11
  FY06                                       8                         48.13
  FY07                                       1                         16.02
                         Total:            13                         103.36




                                        17

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not applicable.




                                    18

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not applicable.




                                  19

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

As reflected in the aide-memoire of the final supervision mission, the upcoming ICR was
discussed with the authorities and background information was provided to help prepare
them for it. The government has not, however, been able to provide an input/response to
the draft ICR. Should such comments be received subsequently, these will be recorded in
the project file.




                                           20

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    21

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents




                                    22

