Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21049-TP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$0.5 MILLION
TO
EAST TIMOR
FOR AN
ECONOMIC INSTITUTIONS CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
February 9, 2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = U.S. dollar
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
CFA       Central Fiscal Authority
CPO       Central Payments Office
CPU       Central Procurement Unit
FM       Financial Manager
JAM       Joint Assessment Mission
UNOPS        United Nations Office for Project Services
PMU        Project Management Unit
RSU       Research and Statistics Unit
SNA       System of National Accounts
TFET       Trust Fund for East Timor
TSS       Transitional Support Strategy
UNTAET         United Nations Transitional
Administration in East Timor
Vice President     Jemal ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director     Klaus Rohland, EACNF
Sector Director    Homi Kharas, EASPR
Task Manager       Cyrus Talati, EASPR



EAST TIMOR
ECONOMIC INSTITUTIONS CAPACITY BUILDING
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective .....................                                 ............................................2
2. Key performance indicators .................................................................3
B. Strategic Context .................................................................4
1. Sector-related Transitional Support Strategy goal supported by  the prcoject ..................                                         4
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy .................................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..............                                        ...................4
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................5
1. Project components .................................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by  the project .................                                      ......................5
3. Benefits and target population  ....................                               .............................................5
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ..............................................................5
D. Project Rationale .................................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection .........................                                ......................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..........7
3. Lessons learned  and reflected  in the project design ........................................................8
4. Indications of recipient commitment and  ownership ......................................................8
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project .................................................................8
E. Summary Project Analysis .................................................................8
1. Economic.                                    ................................................................8
2. Financial .................................................................8
3. Technical .................................................................8
4. Institutional ................................................................8
5. Social ................................................................9
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................9
7. Participatory  approach ................................................................9
8. Safeguard  Policies .................................................................9
F. Sustainability and Risks .................................................................9
1. Sustainability  ................................................................9
2. Critical Risks ................................................................                                                        10
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ................................................................                                        10



G. Main Grant Conditions ........................                                      10
1. Effectiveness Conditions .........................                          10
2. Other ........................ I 1
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                               12
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                             12
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Summary
Table A.   Project Design Summary
Table B.   Project Performance Indicators
Annex 2.      Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of TFET Grants
Annex 10.     Country at a Glance



EAST TIMOR
Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Date: February 9, 2001                             Team Leader: Cyrus Talati
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland            Sector Manager/Director: Homi Kharas
Project ID: P072461                                Sector: ME - Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Grant       Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [   Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data
[] Loan      [  Credit    [X] Grant       [  Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
Financing plan:            ]to be defined
Source                            Local            Foreign           Total
Trust Fund for East Timor                                0                0.5               0.5
Total:                                                   0                0.5               0.5
Grantee: EAST TIMOR
Responsible agency: UNTAET, Central Fiscal Authority
Implementing agency: UNTAET, Central Fiscal Authority
Contact person: Michael Francino
Address: UNTAET/GPA Building, Dili, East Timor
Tel: 011-614-19-835-714       Fax:                         E-mail: mfrancinocvyahoo.com
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY        2000101     2O11(2
Annual    0.275        0.225
Cumulative    0.275        0.500
Project implementation period: January 2001 - June 2002
Expected effectiveness date: February 16, 2001      Expected closing date: Decernber 31, 2002



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (See Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to assist in strengthening the capacity of East Timor in evaluating
economic options and designing and implementing economic policies through the training of relevant
East Timorese staff. Among the enormous challenges confronting East Timor is a scarcity of individuals
with the requisite skills for evaluating economic options and for designing and implementing a well
coordinated set of economic policies. In short, there is a dearth of policy analysis skills. The
international recruitment of expatriates by the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
(UNTAET) to help staff the emerging government economic development institutions is providing a
temporary stop-gap to some of this skills shortage. But even in the near term, the scarcity of needed skills
in East Timor will constrain the effective operation of key economic and financial institutions-in
particular, the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), the Central Payments Office (CPO), and the Research and
Statistics Unit (RSU), which should provide data for economic analysis and policy-making. Substantial
training of local staff will be needed to develop the domestic capacity needed to run these institutions
effectively.
This Economic Institutions Capacity Building Project is designed to help provide this capacity as quickly
as possible. The project pursues this by training East Timorese working on economic policies and
decision making in basic and advanced tools of applied economic analysis. It also provides them the tools
and training to prepare, implement and monitor budgetary performance through an integrated government
accounting system. Additionally, it aims to train East Timorese to compile, analyze and maintain the
main macroeconomic aggregates. To assist with retention and improve sustainability the project will also
provide for follow up on the job training focused on developing and mentoring East Timorese staff in
these central agencies.
The project complements concurrent support provided by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) on basic
training and by multilateral and bilateral donors (including the IMF, Portugal, Australia and Japan) on
higher level training abroad. The basic training being provided through the ADB is necessary to provide
some of the foundation skills that the Bank's program will require.
Australia has provided two technical teams to work with the CFA since April 2000: one focussed on the
Budget Department and the other on the Revenue Service. Technical assistance to the budget department
is assisting with the development of the 2000 and 2001 East Timor Budgets, performance information and
a consolidated budget picture. Technical assistance to the Revenue Service is assisting with the
introduction of taxation legislation and collection of tax revenues. Australia is also providing two training
coordinators to work with recently recruited East Timorese staff to those two Central Fiscal Authority
departments. Assistance in 2000-01 is likely to be in the order of AUD3 million. Further assistance is
being planned.
CIDA is also providing a package of assistance valued at C$1.4m over 3 years to assist in building the
capacity of the Revenue Service of the CFA.



Page 3
Donor coordination on this and other matters is being conducted through the Trust Fmnd for East Timor
(TFET) and the biannual meetings of donors. Utmost importance is being placed on developing the
capacity of East Timorese to take the place of expatriate UNTAET staff as quickly as possible. East
Timorese returning from abroad can provide some of the urgently needed capability, but additional
capacity building through training will be vital.
2. Key performance indicators:
The planned outcomes of the project are:
*  Central Fiscal Authority and Central Payments Office staff participating in tools of applied
economic analysis training.
*  Greater East Timorese involvement in preparation of the FY2001/02 budget than was the case
with the FY2000/01 budget.
*  East Timorese leadership in preparation and execution of the FY2002/03 budget and high quality
budget submissions.
* Chart of accounts and asset register for the future Government of East Timor.
- Sufficient information support from RSU for budget preparation and policy analysis.
The key performance indicators (see Annex 1) are:
* Number of staff trained in finance, economics and public expenditure analysis
* Integrated government accounting system established
* Number of government departments/agencies utilizing the integrated government accounting
system
* Number of staff trained in the use of the integrated government accounting system
* Macroeconomic aggregates for East Timor



Page 4
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Transitional Support Strategy goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-193                Date of latest TSS discussion: November 28, 2000
No Country Assistance Strategy has yet been prepared for East Timor, which voted for independence
from Indonesia on August 30, 1999. In its stead, a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) has been
prepared. The Bank's TSS for East Timor was discussed by the Board on November 28, 2000. The
World Bank-led Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) in November 1999 identified priority short-term
reconstruction initiatives and estimates of extemal financing needs. Training in economic policy analysis
to strengthen local capacity for economic management and a strong approach to budget management were
identified as a priorities by this assessment mission. Subsequent World Bank and IMF work have
reaffirmed this need.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sound fiscal management, an effective reconstruction effort, and a policy environment conducive to
efficient private sector development, are all critical for East Timor' s development as an independent
nation. Moreover, it would be desirable to assimilate East Timorese into senior economic policy making
positions as soon as possible, and to ensure that they have capable local staff. But, as mentioned above,
there is very limited East Timorese experience and current capacity in this area. Hence, achieving this
objective calls for training in concepts and tools of applied economic analysis, provision of tools and
training to ensure good budget management consistent with sound principles of public expenditure
management, as well as providing sound information support for this analysis.
The strategy for addressing this need is for ADB, the TFET, and multilateral and bilateral donors (in
particular, the IMF, Australia, Japan and Portugal) to all contribute in a complementary way. The ADB
will support recruitment and basic training in accounting and principles and practices of public financial
management, to provide and hone a bedrock set of skills. This proposed TFET grant would build on this
by providing more advanced training in tools of applied economic analysis, provide the systems and
training to support sound budget management and execution and the underlying information required to
support these areas effectively.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Issue                                 StrAtei vchoices
Little indigenous capacity in East Timor   Identify East Timorese with basic training and build on this
for applied economic policy analysis.  capacity with additional training.
Limited capacity to design and implement  Provide employees in the CFA and CPO with needed
fiscal programs.                      training.
Limited capacity to compile basic     Identify East Timorese, possibly within RSU, with basic
macroaggregates needed for applied    training and build on this capacity with additional training.
economic policy analysis.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                  Sector      Costs      % of  financing    Bank-
_USSM)    Total   WUSW         financing
Component 1.                           Public        $0.05       10      $0.05       10
Foundations of Applied Economic Analysis -
Macroeconornics And Microeconomics
Component 2.                           Public        $0.05       10       $0.05      10
Foundations of Applied Economnic Analysis'-
International Economics, Public Finance,
Monetary, Agricultural Economics
Component 3.                           Public        $0.05       10       $0.05      10
Public Expenditure Management, Budgetary
Processes and Project Analysis
Component 4.                           Public        $0.155     31       S0.155      31
Government accounting system
Component 5.                           Public         0.06       12       0.06       12
On the job, economic analysis and
policymaking
Component 6.                           Public        $0.10      20       :30.10      20
Compilation of main macroeconomic
aggregates at current and constant prices  I
Others (Auditors Fee)                                $0.025      5   -     0.025      5
Total                                              $0.490    98        $0.490      98
Total Project Costs                                  $0.50    100        $0.50      100
Front-end fee                                        0.00
Total Financing Required                             $0.50     100   S_0.50         100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project will support the underlying objective of imparting policy analysis skills 1:o ensure capacity to
design and implement sound economic policies, underpinned by strong budget management capacity, and
the desire to have East Timorese in key economic policy making positions as soon as possible.
3. Benefits and target population:
The immediate beneficiaries will be those receiving the training. But all East Timorese will benefit from
the maintenance of sound economic policies, application of good budgetary practices and the increase in
national sovereignty over economic policy making.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation. To achieve maximum integration with workplace needs and to minimize the chances of
loss through out-migration, most of the training is to be provided in Dili. This will also minimize the
disruption to ongoing work programs in the agencies where the candidates are drawn from and should
foster a closer connection to national needs. CFA, CPO, and RSU management will be heavily involved
in the identification of participants and refinement of the final course content. The World Bank Institute
will also be involved in this phase both to ensure a transparent and open selection process but also as part
of an ex-ante evaluation process for the candidates. (There will also be an ex-post evaluation process to
measure the effectiveness of the project activities.) The World Bank Institute will also be involved in the
design of the core course material once the evaluation process is complete. Selection of candidates will
target women, consistent with the East Timor Transitional Administration policy of a 30 percent
employment target for women in the public service. The current proportion is 22.9 percent, but nearly
one-third of recruitment remains to be completed.



Page 6
The actual training will be delivered through consultancies provided in association with the Civil Service
Academy, which will also provide facilities and logistical support. The capacity of the fledgling Civil
Service Academy is itself thin and the provision of much of the training through this body should begin to
build the basis for sustained institutional capacity to cater to the training needs of the East Timorese civil
service in the future. To improve retention and sustainability, there will also be training for local trainers,
to allow refresher courses to be provided on an ongoing basis. Sustainability of the training component
will also be buttressed through provision of resources for on the job training and mentoring of East
Timorese staff. However, the long term sustainability will depend on stability in government
administration which is as yet unproven. The training for and extension of the government accounting
system component to cover all government departments and agencies will also be furnished through a
consultancy. The training for the component to support compilation and maintenance of macroeconomic
aggregates will also be conducted locally, although it is anticipated that some further advanced training in
this area may be provided offshore to a sub-set of the candidates.
To avoid trainee-fatigue and excessive absence from the workplace, this training will be provided in
blocks of four weeks at a time on a less than full time basis. The current plan is for training to be held in
4-6 week blocks with up to four weeks in between modules. (See Annex 2 for more details).
Instruction would be in Bahasa Indonesia as this is the language most familiar to the anticipated
participants. The choice of Bahasa as the medium of instruction is not expected to be a sensitive issue, as
it is the language in most widespread use in East Timor. Use and knowledge of English and Portuguese
are limited.
Project Management. The project will be implemented by UNTAET's CFA. CFA is the responsible unit
for the public treasury in East Timor and the Project Management Unit (PMU) will be located in CFA.
The CFA PMU will have overall responsibility for project activities. The Head of the CFA will be
designated the Project Director and will be accountable for the effective delivery of training.
The Project Director wili be supported by key technical specialists in the following areas: (a) training
delivery; (b) procurement; and (c) financial and administrative management. The technical training
delivery specialist will be supported by specialists on short-term consultant assignments. The other
agencies participating in this project, namely the CPO, RSU and Civil Service Academy will each appoint
a project liaison officer to ensure effective coordination with CFA and to maintain the schedule of project
implementation. The establishment of the PMU, including the appointment of the procurement and
financial management specialists is a condition of effectiveness.
Disbursement Arrangements. The proposed Project is expected to disburse over a period of 18 months
from the date of effectiveness. Disbursement will commence using traditional disbursement methods-
direct payments or Statement of Expenditure (SOE) reimbursements. All disbursements against contracts
for operating costs, training, fellowships and workshops, and services of consulting firms costing
US$100,000 equivalent or less and individual consultants costing US$50,000 equivalent or less will be
made against certified Statements of Expenditures. The documentation supporting SOE disbursements
will be retained by the PMU for at least one year after the receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year
in which the last disbursement was made.
Financial Management. A Financial Manager (FM) with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
will be appointed within the PMU. PMU will also assign adequate budgeting, accounting and support
staff. The FM will establish appropriate accounting and internal control procedures for authorizing
payments, recording of all project related expenditures, periodic financial reporting and preparation of
annual financial statements for external audit. The accounting system will be designed to maintain
separate project accounts for TFET funded activities in accordance with the Grant Agreement. Details of
financial management arrangements are provided in Annex 6.



Page 7
Audit. The PMU will prepare annual financial statements for the Project and have them audited by an
independent external auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor will be required to provide an opinion on the
financial statements, the operations of the Special Account and the withdrawals frot the grant based on
statements of expenditures (SOEs). The independent auditor will be appointed on terms of reference
acceptable to IDA before June 30, 2001. The first audit will be carried out for the financial year ending
June 30, 2001 and annually thereafter.
Procurement. The authorities may face procurement issues as they have not gained enough experience in
procurement. The main procurement issues are: (i) process in identification and choice of consultants
according to Bank guidelines, (ii) bidding procedures; and (iii) precedence of World Bank procurement
regulations over local laws and regulations.
Reporting. Monitoring and periodic reporting will be established for the training activities.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Locating the bulk of the training outside of East Timor was rejected due to (a) the disruption due to the
absence of participants from the workplace for lengthy periods. While intensive, the training is expected
to be less than full-time thus allowing continuation of line duties, and (b) the cost. NMoreover holding the
training locally should help to foster an improved connection to national needs.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector Issue                        Project                                Ratings
_Bank-fnanced projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed      Nil
IMF                Basic training in macroeconomics, to be provided
through the IMF Institute in Singapore.
ADB                Basic training in computers, spreadsheet analysis,
accounting and office processes.
Executive development for potential senior officials.
AusAID             Technical assistance and training programs for the
budget and revenue departments of the Central Fiscal
Authority
CIDA               Assistance over 3 years to the Revenue Service of the
Central Fiscal Authority
Other bilateral    Scholarships for tertiary education abroad
donors
Note: IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learnedfrom otherpost-conflict situations
Lessons from many post-conflict situations (including Cambodia, Mozambique, Bosnia, West and Central
Africa, the Palestinian territories) point to the following factors as keys for success with this type of TA:
* Availability of potential staff for training.
* Attractive incentives for retaining staff after training in the public sector.
* Stability in the Government administration and the civil service.
* National ownership of the training program.
* Periodic follow-up refresher courses.
* On-the-j ob training for new staff provided by staff who have attended training.
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership:
The National Council and the CNRT (Concelho Nacional da Resistencia Timorense) have already
supported this project as part of the FY2000/0 1 program of restructuring and development expenditures.
Second, UNTAET officials, members of the civil service commission and management of the civil
service academy have indicated support for this training.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank (especially the World Bank Institute) has extensive experience in designing and
identifying such needs for training and in managing such capacity building initiatives.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic:
Not applicable
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
Fiscal impact: Developing this local capacity will reduce the need for long-term technical support from
abroad and hence the cost of securing that assistance.
3. Technical:
Not applicable.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: UNTAET's Central Fiscal Authority is the implementing agency.
b. Project management: The CFA will be providing the Project Director and technical staff necessary to
manage the project. The CFA will be working with the Civil Service Academy, CPO and RSU in
developing curriculum, course materials and identifying candidates for training.
c. Procurement issues: there needs to be reassurance that skills acquired by procurement officers in
previous World Bank projects will be made available to this project.
d. Financial management issues: the project financial management system to be put in place will need to
be acceptable to IDA.



Page 9
5. Social:
Not applicable in the conventional sense, but there will be substantial social benefits from increased
domestic ownership of key economic policy formulation and implementation.
6. Environmental assessment:         Environmental Category   []A       []B   [X] C
Not applicable
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
People receiving training will be the key beneficiaries.
b. Other key stakeholders: East Timor's emerging political leadership.
8. Safeguard Policies:
---  PQ lIt    -:y-                      Appliwtbility
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                   No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                           No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                            No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                              No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                          No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                           No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                     No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                      No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)           No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)                 No
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability will depend on the effectiveness of the training and whether those trained stay in East
Timor and remain in the public service. Given the nature of capacity building-that it takes time and
requires sustained effort-and the rudimentary nature of resources and skills in East Timor today, it
would be optimistic to assume that this project would lead to long term sustained capacity increases.
Rather the intention is to inculcate some economic thinking into the officials who will be making or
supporting policy decisions for the future government of East Timor in a way that improves public policy
and development outcomes. This activity should be important to inform future, larger scale capacity
building initiatives by donors.



Page 10
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
tisk              Rtik                 Rt1k MiniiztiitonMeasu:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ R a tin g   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
From Outputs to Objective
People trained might leave East    M    Holding the training in East Timor.
Timor
People trained might leave the   M    Planning ongoing training over time will help maintain
civil service; and may not be          commitment to public service.
provided the resources to              Providing opportunities for advancement and responsibility
effectively utilize their new          in the civil service.
skills.                                But stability in government administration has yet to be
proved.
Inability to identify suitable   M    Delaying the preparation of this project until CFA, CPO,
trainees                               and RSU recruitment is well under way has reduced this
risk.
From Components to Outputs .
People who begin training may    M    Planning in modules to minimize fatigue and drop outs.
not complete it
Overall Risk Rating              M
Note: Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk).
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Selecting Bahasa Indonesia as the language of instruction. Frequently, older East Timorese favor
Portuguese while younger people favor English. All potential trainees are fluent in Bahasa Indonesia.
The language of instruction is subject to revisit following selection of candidates for training, and should
be dependent on the language skills of those selected.
Focusing training on ci- it servants and locating training in the Civil Service Academy. There would be
value in providing training in basic tools of applied economics to a wider group of East Timorese, but the
urgent need for increased capacity in public administration suggest focusing this initially on civil
servants.
Choice of the CFA as manager may pose some risks given the inter-agency nature of the training
component. It will be important to recognize this and to ensure adequate and equitable distribution of
training slots across agencies.
G: Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) that the Project Management Unit has been established within the Recipient's Central Fiscal Authority,
with competent personnel in adequate numbers, including:
(i) a Project Director who shall be the head of the Central Fiscal Authority;
(ii) a training specialist;
(ii) a procurement specialist; and
(iii) a financial manager.



Page 1 1
(b) that an action plan for the financial management of the Project, acceptable to the Trustee, has been
adopted; and
(c) that a procurement action plan, acceptable to the Trustee, has been adopted
2. Other:
Implementation
1.    UTNTAET shall establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a Program
Management Unit within CFA, with competent personnel in adequate numbers and provide the Project
Management Unit at all times with adequate office space and communication facilities.
2     The Recipient shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee,
on or about September 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date; and
(c)   review with the Trustee, by October 31, 2001, or such later datc as the Trustee shall
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Trustee's views on the matter.
Financial:
1.    UNTAET will maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of UTNTAET responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
2.     UNTAET will:
(a) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 1 above including those for the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(b) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have
reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, UNTAET will:



Page 12
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordanwce with paragraph 1 above, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditxres;
(b) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
rccipts aiid other documents) evidencing such expendittres;
(c) enable IDA representatives to examine such rccords; and
(d) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit Teferred to in paragraph 2
above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
H: Readiness for lmplernentation
1. Initial batch of staff appointments for the CFA and CPO and probably RSU have been made thus
providing participants for the irst round of taiuing.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementatiun.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies
Team Leader: Cyrus Tala      ionomist.
Sector ManagerfDirector-     Kharas, Sector Director.
Country MagagerlD  cc    Klaus Rohland, Country Director.



Page 13
Annex 1: Project Summary
Table A: Project Design Summary
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance           Monitoring and     1  Critical Assumptions
_____________ __  Indicators         Evaluation
Sector-related TSS Goal:    Sector Indicators:       Sector / Country Reports:
A TSS has been prepared     Increased government
which places emphasis on    capacity to manage the
capacity building objectives.   national budget
Project Development Objective:  Outcome / Impact     Project Reports:
To strengthen capacity of basic  Indicators:         Periodic project         Availability of potential
applied economic policy     .  CFA, CPO, and RSU    supervision reports      trainees.
analysis and formulation in    staff participating in
East Timor.                    training.                                      Transparent identification
.  Increased East                                 process for potential
Timorese involvement                          participants.
in preparation of the
FY2001/02 budget than
was the case with the
FY2000/01 budget.
.  East Timorese
leadership, preparation
and execution of the
FY2002/03 budget.
Output from each component:   Output Indicators:     Project Reports:         Availability of potential
East Timorese staff trained in   Number of staff trained.  Periodic project   trainees.
microeconomic,                                       supervision report from
macroeconomics, international  Timely formulation and  each project component.   Availability of good training
economics, public finance,  implementation of policy                          resources.
monetary and agricultural   decisions, attributed to
economics; compilation of   trained staff.
main macroeconomic          Macroeconomic aggregates
aggregates.                 for the East Timor
economy.
Government accounting       Number of departments
system up and running       using the system and
number of staff trained in
its use. Chart of accounts
for government and asset
register.



Page 14
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Table B: Project Performance Indicators
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Indicator                Mid-Term               Project Completion
Number of staff trained in   30 or more             50 or more
finance, economics and
public expenditure analysis
Integrated government     Chart of accounts         Asset register established
accounting system         established
established
Number of government      Six or more               Sixteen or more
departments/agencies
utilizing the integrated
government accounting
system
Number of staff tbained in   12 or more             32 or more
the use of the integrated
government accounting
system
Macroeconomic aggregates  Methodology established    Baseline national accounts
for East Timor            and survey/data collection    prepared up to
initiated                 FY2000/200 1



Page 15
Annex 2: Project Description                                  Page 1 of 3
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Courses   Modules                 Description                             Number of   Course   Hours   Number of
(Preliminary List)                                            Participants  Duration  Per       Trainers
Day
1. Foundations of Applied         This course is intended for newly recruited  30        4 weeks      4         TBD
Economic Analysis - Part 1         local staff, who may be recently graduated
1. Microeconomics     students with some basic knowledge of        ---
2. Macroeconomics      economics.
The contents and complexity will be based
on an assessment aimed at the candidate
pool. Each module of the training will equip
participants to undertake economic analysis
and evaluate policy options based on a case
study approach. The time would be
planned in such a way as to allow lectures,
exercise sessions, hands-on computer
assignments, and group study periods.
II. Foundations of Applied         As for I above.                             30        4 weeks      4         TBD
Economic Analysis - Part II
I. Public Finance      One of the conference topics would be a
2. Intemational        roundtable discussion on the Timorese
Economics              economy, with both Timorese and
3. Monetary Economics  international economists making
presentations. Other topics will include:
4. Agricultural        Small States and Meeting the Challenge in
economics              the Global Economy.
Agriculture economics is included as a
special topic as agriculture remains the
prime economic activity and is the main
source of livelihood for 90 percent of the
population. This course would include a
focus on special areas including sample
surveys to collect data and the differential
impact of policies on gender status.



Page 16
Annex 2: Project Description                                 Page 2 of 3
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Courses   Modules                 Descnipton                             Number of   Course   Hours   Number of
(Preliminary List)                                           Partici       Duration .Per      Trainers
L _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Day
111. Public Expenditure           The broad objective of this course is to    30        4 weeks     4         TBD
Management, Budgetary Processes   examine and understand issues in public
and Project Analysis              expenditure management and build capacity
1. Introduction to    for effective public financial management.
Managing Public       The course will begin with an overview of
Expenditure-A         the architecture and principles of budgeting
Contemporary Approach  and financial accountability This will
and Establishing      require that participants be trained to
Aggregate Fiscal      understand the need for public sector
Discipline            financial management systems to be rooted
2. Strategic Prioritization in mechanisms to ensure transparency and
and Resource Allocation  democratic accountability. The course will
3. Improving          present a holistic approach to public
Operational Efficiency   expenditure management, based on the
and the Delivery of   observation that expenditure outcomes are
Public Service        determined in large part by the institutional
4. Operational Issues and and incentive structures-both formal and
Policy Coordination   informal-that govern the budget process.
5. Project and        The course should provide participants the
Expenditure Analysis   tools to inform decision-making with
economic information, and discipline it
with costs.
The course will also focus on operational
issues including: the budget timetable;
budget circulars, etc. How the expenditure
management and control system will
operate; where bank accounts will be
located; who will approve what.
IV. Government Accounting System  This component aims to establish an         45          16        4         TBD
integrated govemment accounting system
(GAS) and frain (32) East Timorese staff in
its use in order to establish budget
execution and management capacity.
Specific elements of the program include
creation of an asset register and
decentralization to agencies.
V. On the Job Economic Analysis   This aims to provide subsequent on the job  25          12        8         TBD
and Policymaking                  training and mentoring to East Timorese
staff, mainly in the CFA by Bahasa
speaking economists. This will serve to
consolidate and sustain the formal training
components.



Page 17
Annex 2: Project Description                                  Page 3 of 3
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Courses   Modules                 Deas.ptiorl                             Number of   Czourse   Hours   Number of
(Preliminary List)                                            Participants  Duration  Per       Trainers
Day
VI. Compilation of Main            This course is intended for current and
Macroeconomic Aggregates          newly recruited local staff of RSU, who
I. Introduction to SNA -  already have some basic knowledge of     15        2 weeks     4         TBD
a comprehensive        economic statistics and SNA. The contents  (may be
framework within which  are to provide the foundation for    increased to
economic data can be    compilation of GDP and its components,   include CFA
compiled and presented   particularly the use of sample surveys to    budget
for economic analysis   collect data. Each module of the training    department
will include assessment of the current  staff )
2. Methodology of GDP  situation in East Timor statistical practice  15      3 weeks      4         TBD
and its components'    and short- and long-term objectives in
compilation at current   statistical capacity building. The time
and constant prices    would be planned in such a way as to allow
3. Source data for     lectures, exercise sessions, hands-on       15        3; weeks     4         TBD
compilation of GDP and  computer assignments, and group study
its components;        periods. A baseline national accounts for
Statistical infrastructure  East Timor will be generated from this
needed for compilation   exercise.
of reliable GDP
estimates
4. Simulation of GDP                                               15        4 weeks      4         TBD
compilation for years
1995-1997; compilation
of tentative estimates for
years 2000-2001



Page 18
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Project cost By Component                         Loalt       Foreign       Total
us $
I. Foundations of Applied Economic Analysis - Part 1  2,000    48,000        50,000
II. Foundations of Applied Economic Analysis - Part I  2,000   48,000        50,000
III. Public Expenditure Management, Budgetary      2,000       48,000        50,000
Processes and Project Analysis
IV. Government Accounting System                               155,000      155,000
V. On the Job Training in Economic Analysis        2,000        58,000       60,000
VI. Compilation of Main Macroeconomic Aggregates   5,000       95,000       100,000
Other (audit)                                   1,000       24,000       25,000
Total Baseline Cost                                14,000     476,000       490,000
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                              5,000        5,000       10,000
Total Project Costs                               19,000      481,000       500,000
Total Financing Required                          19,000       481,000      500,000
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Not Applicable
Annex 5: Financial Summary
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Year ending June 30
_______________Implementat  Period
_________::____e e_FY200I       FY2001102
Total Financing Required
Project Costs               $275,000        $225,000
Total Financing              $275,000         $225,000
Financing
Others - TFET grant       $275,000         $225,000
Total Project Financing   $275,000         $225,000



Page 19
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Procurement Assessment
The UNTAET has established a central procurement unit (CPU) that deals with the UNTAET Trust Fund financed
procurements. However, the CPU is currently staffed by international staff, many of whom have limited exposure to
World Bank and other multi-national procurement procedures. Further there is a limited number of East Timorese
personnel experienced in procurement.. This central procurement unit is supported by the l;nited Nations Office for
Project Services (UNOPS) to develop a government procurement unit within the administrative services component.
Procurement capacity has been established in some of the sectoral units that are likely to evolve into departments or
ministries in the future. The CPU is in the process of employing local staff to initiate the develop of a sustainable
procurement cadre. To strengthen the skill of the East Timorese procurement staff, a series of interrelated action plans,
including workshops, formal and informal training, mentoring, and on the job training programs is being developed in
conjunction with UNOPS, UNTAET, World Bank, UNDP, ILO, and ADB. The aim of the action plan is to create a
sustainable procurement unit that will operate in accordance with international procurement practices. This capacity
building process is scheduled to begin in December 2000, with a series of workshops. Once local procurement officers
are appointed to support activities it is planned to send the individuals to World Bank supported procurement seminars in
the region. A current constraint is the limited number of local staff available to this area. Consequently, most of
procurement is being performed by short term international staff with a maximum tenure of six months. In addition, there
is a fluency issue as most East Timorese nationals have limited ability to communicate in the English language, especially
in written form. The World Bank will continue to participate in this capacity building effort by conducting seminars for
the Central Procurement Unit, UJNOPS, and UNTAET staff. In addition, provisions for procurement support have been
and will continue to be provided through ongoing projects to a number of these sectoral units to build their capacity,
including the provision of language training. This capacity will ensure that Bank Guidelines for procurement under the
project are followed.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement under the Grant will follow in all aspects the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999 for procurement of services under the Grant. The
Recipient will use the, Standard Form of Consulting Contracts and Requests for Proposals (dated July 1997, revised April
1998 and July 1999), and Standard Bid Evaluation Report Forms.
Implementation
A procurement officer experienced in World Bank procurement will be assigned from UNTAET' s central procurement
office to support the Project Director in the implementation of the agreed procurement plan.
Advertisement
To ensure a competitive selection process is followed even though the value of the consultant services are relatively small
(US$100,000), a Special Procurement Notice will be published in widely read regional journals and or publications
inviting eligible consultants to express interest for the technical assistance/consulting services required under the project.



Page 20
Consulting Services
The following procurement procedures will be used:
I . Consultants Qualifications (CQ) procedures will be used for the component relating to the macroeconomic
aggregates. It is essential to employ a firm with extensive experience in environments characterized by a low skills
base, rudimentary technology and a traumatized public service delivery system. The total value is estimated not to
exceed US$100,000 equivalent. About 20 percent of consulting services will be procured using CQ procedures.
2. Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for selection of an auditor to carry out audit of the Project. The
value of contracts awarded through LC selection will not exceed US$25,000 equivalent (about 5% of total consulting
services).
3. Individual Consultants (IC) procedures will be used for contracting individuals to provide services for the following
areas: modules covering applied economic analysis, public expenditure management and on the job training under the
economic analysis and training component. These consultants will be hired by the PMU. Individual consultants will
be selected under the procedures specified in Section V of the Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants on the basis of their qualifications through comparison with other qualified candidates. It is expected that
the maximum value of the contract for provision of the formal training module will be US$150,000 equivalent. It is
also expected that the cost of two contracts for provision of on the job training will not exceed US$60,000 equivalent.
The total cost of this category will not exceed US$210,000 equivalent (about 43% of total consulting services).
4. Single Source (SS) selection will be used for the selection of the firm to establish an integrated government
accounting system and train East Timorese staff in its use and also for the on the job training component. The
software selected by East Timor has been determined by UNTAET, based on the recommendation of the IMF. The
IMF recommendation was based particularly on the successful installation of the system in a similar emergency
situation in Kosovo. In the case of site licenses for the software, the required software is proprietary and obtainable
only from one source. Direct contracting arrangements to train Treasury staff in the operation of the system will be in
accordance with paragraph 3.7(c) of the Bank's procurement guidelines. The total value of contracts awarded through
sole sourcing to this provider is estimated not to exceed US$155,000 equivalent (about 32% of total consulting
services).
Operating costs
The operating costs of the PMU are to be borne by the regular UNTAET budget. These are not expected to be
incremental to the project.
Prior review thresholds (Table B).
IDA's prior review of procurement will cover all consulting contracts costing US$100,000 or more for firms and
US$50,000 or more for individuals, contracts for assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by IDA;
and all single source contracts. The Task Team Leader will approve all TORs.
Disbursement
The proposed Project is expected to disburse over a period of 18 months from date of effectiveness. Disbursement will
commence using traditional disbursement methods-direct payments or Statement of Expenditure reimbursements etc.
All disbursements against contracts for consulting firms costing US$100,000 equivalent or more and individual
consultants costing US$50,000 equivalent or more, and all single source contracts, will be fully documented,. All other
contracts will be made against certified Statements of Expenditures. The documentation supporting SOE disbursements
will be retained by the PMU for at least one year after the receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made.



Page 21
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation UNTAET will establish a Special Account denominated in U.S. dollars under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation for the
Special Account will be US$ 100,000. The replenishment applications should be submitted by PMU and/or
UNTAET/CFA on a monthly basis or when the balance of the Special Account is 20 percent of the initial amount,
whichever comes first. The Special Account will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Financial Management Assessment
The UNTAET Financial Office in Dili is currently responsible for all accounting and reporting activities. The CFA has
assumed financial management responsibilities of UNTAET and therefore, a basic institutional framework is present to
establish sound internal control procedures and accounting and reporting arrangements. Most. of the staff currently on
board are being trained on Bank disbursement procedures for a different project. A senior Disbursement Specialist from
the World Bank visited Dili in March and October 2000 and conducted a training seminar on IDA disbursement
procedures. Subject to the above, it is the assessment of the Joint mission that UNTAET has taken adequate steps to meet
the minimum standards of financial management and accountability as required by IDA. The following paragraphs
describe the financial management arrangements expected to be put in place for accounting, reporting and auditing of
project expenditures.
Retroactive Financing
The following conditions will apply to all retroactive financing:
(a) Payments will only be for expenditures that are eligible under the Grant Agreement. Procedures for procurement and
the use of consultants, and processing and clearances will be subject to the Bank's Procurement and Consultant
Guidelines.
(b) Documentation requirements for expenditures claimed under retroactive financing will be the same as those for
disbursement against payments made after the Grant Agreement is signed.
Emergency recovery operations: payments may not exceed 20 percent of the loan amount and must be made after the
occurrence of the emergency and within 4 months before the expected date of loan signing. hi exceptional circumstances,
the date of the first mission or the date of the emergency event may be used as the earliest date for payments eligible for
retroactive financing (see OP / BP / GP 8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance). Retroactive financing under this project is
expected for initial activity under the integrated government accounting system component. T he retroactive financing
need is estimated not to exceed US$70,000 or equivalent, and will cover expenditures incurred beginning in
September 2000.
The decision to standardize Government accounts on a proprietary software system was based on the recommendations of
the IMF in early 2000. This followed assessment of various packages and the positive experience with this product in a
similar post conflict environment where there were no existing Government systems. UNTAET subsequently sought
assistance form the World Bank to provide initial technical assistance to East Timor to install and use the software. This
was done through a contract for $24,00 in fees and up to $11,00 in travel and costs with the sole supplier. There was no
procurement of goods.
Subsequently UNTAET in conjunction with the IMF decided that the training activities needed to be extended. This is
currently being undertaken. UNTAET also decided to install the system in a range of line agencies as well as the central
agencies. This requires that the contract with the supplier be extended to cover a larger scale of activity. On the basis of
these extensions, the full cost of this assistance will be incorporated into the Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Project grant agreement and managed by UNTAET. The initial consultancy and additional training costs will be paid by
the CFA through retroactive financing.



Page 22
Proposed Financial Management Arrangements
The objectives of the financial management arrangements are summarized below:
(a) to ensure proper planning, budgeting, accounting, reporting and auditing of the TFET funded activities; and
(b) to ensure proper planning, budgeting, accounting, reporting and auditing of special account for TFET funded
activities.
Accounting Organization and Staffing. A Financial Manager (FM) with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
will be assigned by the CFA to the PMU. The PMU will have primary responsibility for all financial management
activities of the Program. The FM will report to the Program Director. The UNTAET/CFA will provide overall guidance
and supervision to the FM in ensuring that functions are carried out in accordance with the agreed guidelines. The FM
will be assisted by sufficient staff to carry out planning, budgeting, accounting and reporting functions for the project.
Funds Flow. The funding sources for the Program will come from the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) (for training
costs) and the UJNTAET Trust Fund (for operating costs). The FM will be responsible for requesting disbursement from
the TFET for agreed Project activities. The disbursement requests will be routed through the designated UNTAET
official authorized to sign applications to withdraw funds from the Grant Account established for the Project. Based on
authorized requests to disburse funds, IDA will withdraw and pay funds directly to a supplier or transfer funds to a Special
Account to be managed by UNTAET/CFA under agreed procedures. The disbursement procedures for UTNTA-ET TF
allocated to the Program will be determined by UNTAET/CFA.
It is likely that the majority of Project funds will flow from IDA directly to the consultants required to provide the training
services. For all other expenditures funded by the TFET, a Special Account will be established with a bank acceptable to
IDA under the control of the UNTAET/CFA to channel TFET funds. All recurrent costs related to the project will be
funded from the Consolidated Fund for East Timor through the CFA operating budget.
Planning & Budgeting. The preparation of the budget plans for project implementation will be the responsibility of the
1PMU.
The budget should be prepared in such detail to allow meaningful monitoring of Project implementation. The budget
should be coordinated with the procurement plans and supported by a cash forecast for at least three months.
Accounting and Reporting. The primary responsibility for maintaining accounting records for the project will be with the
FM /PMU. The PMU with the guidance of the CFA will establish appropriate accounting and internal control procedures
for authorizing payments, recording of all project related expenditures, periodic financial reporting and preparation of
annual financial statements for external audit. The accounting system should be designed to maintain separate project
accounts for TEFT funded activities in accordance with the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. The FM/PMU will ensure that
quarterly and annual financial reports comparing budgeted and actual expenditures are prepared for the Project. The
financial reports will consist of: (a) Sources and Applications of Funds Statement; (b) Uses of Funds by Project Activity;
and (c) Output Monitoring Report. The financial reports shall be prepared and submitted to IDA no later than 45 days
following the end of the quarter.
Auditing. The UNTAET/CFA will be responsible to carry out internal auditing of the project activities. The PMU will
prepare annual financial statements for the Project and have them audited by an independent external auditor acceptable to
IDA. The auditor will be required to provide an opinion on the financial statements, the operations of the Special Account
and the withdrawals from the grant based on statements of expenditures (SOEs). The independent auditor will be
appointed on terms of reference acceptable to IDA.



Page 23
Annex 6 -- Table A: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                           Selection Method                           Total Cost
Expenditure Category
QCBS    QBS       SFB       LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                                               0.025             0.155                 0.18
(  )     (  ) I  ( )   (0.025)   (  )   (0.155)   (  )            (0.18)
B. Individuals                                                  0.10  - 0.210                  0.31
(_______)__ _(__  )    (9 )  (  ) (0.10)   (0.210)   (            (0.31)
Sub Total                              0.025    0.10      0.365                 0.49
(  )              (  )   (0.025)  (0.10)   (0.365)   (  )         (0.49)
Contingencies                                                                       (0. 01)
Total                                                                       0.50
(0.50)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank grant.
Annex 6 -- Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure             Contra4tVatue             PiocuremIent         Con-tracs SieCt to
Category                (Thres"hld)                Method                Prior Review
US $ thousands                                     US $ millions
Services
= or >US$100,000 (Firms)         CQ                         0.100
Ss                       0.155
= or >US$50,000                   IC                        0.150
(Individuals)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:       US$0.405
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Page 24
Annex 6 -- Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Ca_u tgr               Amount in 0US$ million               Financing Percentage
Consultant Services, Training,            $465,000                                  100%
fellowships and workshops La
Incremental operating costs                 $25,000                                 100%
relating to Project auditing
Unallocated                          $10,000
Total                                     $500,000
/a. Consultants Services and Training includes fees for preparation and training, interpreters fees, meals, taxis, return trip plane ticket,
subsistence, travel; course supplies; participants transportation and meals, and logistical arrangements (copying and translating
instructional material). Figures given assume greater costs for the initial investment in translation of materials and consultants services.
Some participants trained the first year could provide training in the second year. Also, with the University of East Timor and Civil
Service Academy, there could be greater use of their resources, including training materials and trainers.



Page 25
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Project Schedule                                Planned               Actual
.___   (At final PCD stage)    __.
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          6            _       9
First Bank mission (identification)            08/15/2000           08/15/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     11/09/2000           11/09/2000
Negotiations                                   11/21/2000            12/04/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  04/15/2001
Prepared by: UNTAET
Preparation assistance: Not applicable.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                            Specialty
Cyrus Talati                                     Senior Economist
Lloyd McKay                                      Lead Economist
Thang-Long Ton                                   Economist
Murray Proctor                                   Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
Olga Ivanova                                     Senior Economist
Michael Stevens                                  Lead Public Sector Development Specialist
Robert Cohen                                     Project Financial Management Specialist
Karen Sirker                                     WBI training advisor
Gillian Brown                                    Senior Gender Specialist
Mary Sheehan                                     Lead Infrastructure Operations Officer
Hilary Kiell                                     Senior Procurement Specialist
Hung Kim Phung                                   Senior Disbursement Officer
Karin Nordlander                                 Senior Counsel



Page 26
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
A. Project Implementation Plan
Proposal for a Financial System for the East Timor Transitional Administration, UNTAET, October 2000.
Econornic Institutions Capacity Building Project: Project Implementation Action Plan, UNTAET, November 2000.
Information Technology Plan & Costings: Central Fiscal Authority, November 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



Page 27
Annex 9: Statement of TFET Grants
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
Ativity/Project/Grant             Grant Agreement Date      Amount of Grant
USS million
Community Empowerment             February 21, 2000               8.6
Dili Community Employment         April 3, 2000                   0.5
Emergency Infrastructure (ADB)    April 5, 2000                  29.8
Small Enterprise                  April 13, 2000                  4.9
Health                            June 6, 2000                   12.7
Education                         June 21, 2000                  13.9
Agriculture                       June 21, 2000                   6.8
Water and Sanitation (ADB)        August 15, 2000                 4.5
Microfinance (ADB)                December 2000                   4.0
TOTAL                                                            85.7



Page 28
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
EAST TIMOR: Economic Institutions Capacity Building
There are no available historical data for East Timor to complete the Country At A Glance Table (AAG).



