Report No. PID9770
Project Name                     East Timor-Economic Institutions Capacity...
Building Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       TPPE72461
Recipient                        United Nations Transitional Administration
in East Timor
Implementing Agency              Head
Central Fiscal Authority
United Nations Transitional
Administration in East Timor
UNTAET Building
Dili
East Timor
Tel: 614-19-835-714
Date this PID
Prepared                         December 7, 2000
Project Appraisal
Date                             November 2000
Projected Approval
Date                             December 2000
Background
East Timor is emerging as an independent nation after over 400 years of
Portuguese rule, 24 years of Indonesian rule following annexation by
Indonesia in 1975 and its revocation in October 1999, and subsequent
administration by the United Nations Transitional Administration in East
Timor (UNTAET). An East Timorese government is due to take power following
elections expected in 2001, with the timing of the transfer of power to be
determined after the elections.
The overwhelming vote in favor of independence in the August 1999 referendum
triggered widespread violence, displacement of the population, and damage to
property and infrastructure. Some 70 percent of all public buildings were
destroyed amid a collapse of the state, key institutions including the civil
service. The economy is estimated to have contracted by 40 percent in 1999
reflecting the effects of the disruption of the agricultural cycle,
destruction of local inventories of basic manufacturing goods, and
constraints on trade from closure of the border with West Timor and limited
civilian access to port facilities.
Restoration of the institutions of state and concomitant capacity to manage
these is a priority. Chief among such institutions are the economic
institutions which currently include the Central Fiscal Authority, the
Central Payments Office, and the Research and Census Unit.
Grant Objectives
The main objective of the proposed grant is to strengthen East Timor's



Central Fiscal Authority, Central Payments Office and Research and Census
Unit, and other relevant economic institutions.
Loan Description
The proposed grant would provide training to East Timorese staff of these
institutions (Central Fiscal Authority, Central Payments Office and Research
and Census Unit) in concepts and tools of applied economic analysis, public
expenditure management and compilation of main macroeconomic aggregates, and
provision of related technical assistance. This training would be
complemented by subsequent on the job training and mentoring. The training
in the compilation of the main macroeconomic aggregates would generate, inter
alia, a baseline set of national accounts for East Timor. Finally, the
project also includes a component to implement an integrated government
accounting system which should improve budget management.
Project Financing
A grant of US$500,000 million is proposed. It is estimated the grant would
take about 18 months to fully disburse and the anticipated closing date would
be December 31, 2001.
Project Implementation
The project will be implemented by the Central Fiscal Authority of the United
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor.     The Treasury will manage
the details of disbursements under the grant and maintain the grant account.
Benefits and Rationale
The benefits of the project are the generation of indigenous capacity in
economic management. This should improve the quality of policy making and
hence benefit both the public and private sectors. At the same time, the
support being provided to budget management should result in improved
expenditure control and monitoring capacity and thereby strengthen the
effectiveness of public expenditures. Finally, the generation of basic
macroeconomic aggregates for East Timor will greatly contribute to a
sustained improvement in economic monitoring and policy making.
Risks
There are two major risks to the project: the first concerns the availability
of suitable trainees to the agencies concerned and hence to the project
itself. Of greater consequence is the risk that beneficiaries of the project
will leave government service or worse, leave East Timor altogether.
Environmental Aspects
The proposed project will have no adverse environmental impact. This is a
Category C project and will require no further environmental analysis.
Poverty Category
The project will indirectly contribute to poverty alleviation in East Timor
through the improvements in economic management and budgetary outcomes that
it will engender.
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel. (202) 458-5454
Fax (202) 522-1500
Note: This information is for an evolving operation. Certain elements may
not necessarily be included, or may be changed, in the final operation.
- 2 -



This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 15, 2000.
- 3 -



