Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
GRANT NUMBER TF-027826
Trust Fund for East Timor
Grant Agreement
(Economic Institutions Capacity Building Project)
between
EAST TIMOR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor
Dated February 26, 2001
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
GRANT NUMBER TF-027826
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 2001, between EAST TIMOR as administered by the 
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR (the Recipient) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as trustee of the Trust 
Fund for East Timor.
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution No. 
IDA99-5 of the Executive Directors of the Association, as amended by Resolutions No. 
99-8/1 and No. IDA99-5/1, the Executive Directors established the Trust Fund for East 
Timor (TFET) to assist in the emergency reconstruction and recovery program in East 
Timor and appointed the Association as trustee of the TFET;
(B)
the United Nations Security Council, acting under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations, adopted on October 25, 1999, Resolution 1272 (1999) 
establishing a United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) for 
an initial period until January 31, 2001, whereas UNTAET has the objectives and a 
structure as set out in part IV of the Report of the Secretary-General dated October 
4, 1999, and whereas the mandate period for UNTAET was, pursuant to the United Nations 
Security Council Resolution 1338 (2001) of January 31, 2001, extended until January 
31, 2002; and
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the TFET for funding the Project; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 The "General Conditions Applicable to the Trust Fund for East Timor 
Grant Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated May 15, 2000 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Project Management Unit" and "PMU" mean the unit responsible for the 
implementation of the Project, including the implementation of the financial 
management and procurement action plans, and mean the Project implementation entity 
for purposes of sub-sections (g), (h), (i) and (j) of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions;
(b)
"Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to 
measure the Recipient’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount equal to five hundred thousand Dollars ($500,000).
(b)
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose pursuant 
to the Resolutions referred to in the Whereas clause (A) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, through the Central Fiscal Authority, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Page  3
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a plan 
to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
 (c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
Page  4
effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
that the Project Management Unit has been established in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
 that an action plan for the financial management of the Project, 
acceptable to the Trustee, has been adopted; and
(c)
that a procurement action plan, acceptable to the Trustee, has been 
adopted.
Section 5.02. If the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall not have entered into 
effect ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the 
Trustee, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, shall establish a later 
date for the purposes of this Section. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary-General, United 
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Dili, East Timor
c/o Office of the Deputy Transitional Administrator
P.O. Box 2436
Darwin, NT 0801, Australia
Facsimile:
61-889422198
61-889815157
1212-9632180
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C., and Dili, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
   IN EAST TIMOR
By /s/ Sergio Vieira de Mello
Authorized Representative
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Trustee for the Trust Fund in East Timor
By /s/ Klaus Rohland
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed inExpenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Consultants’
   465,000
100%
services, training
fellowships, and
workshops
(2) Incremental operating
    25,000
100%
costs relating to 
Project auditing
(3) Unallocated
    10,000
TOTAL:
500,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $60,000, may be made in 
respect of Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after December 4, 2000.
3.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) incremental operating 
costs, (ii) training, fellowships and workshops, and (iii) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and 
contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent 
each, under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or 
the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in strengthening the 
capacity of East Timor in evaluating economic options and designing and implementing 
economic policies through the training of relevant East Timorese staff. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives.
Capacity Building
Strengthening the Recipient’s Central Fiscal Authority, Central Payments Office 
Page  6
and Research and Census Unit, and other relevant economic institutions through the 
provision of training to East Timorese staff of such Central Fiscal Authority, Central 
Payments Office, Research and Census Unit, and other relevant economic institutions, 
in concepts and tools of applied economic analysis, public expenditure management and 
compilation of main macroeconomic aggregates, and provision of related technical 
assistance.
*          *          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for macroeconomic aggregates training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 
equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for the establishment of the accounting system and related training 
estimated to cost less than $155,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $155,000 equivalent, may, with the Trustee's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate not to exceed $25,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Except as provided in paragraph 1 above, services for training estimated to cost  
less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate not to exceed $210,000 
equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part C:
Review by the Trustee of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved 
by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  7
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Trustee for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the Project, a 
Project Management Unit within the Recipient’s Central Fiscal Authority, with 
competent personnel in adequate numbers, including:
(i)
a Project Director who shall be the head of the Central Fiscal 
Authority;
(ii)
a training coordinator;
(iii)
a procurement specialist; and
(iv)
a financial manager; and
(b)
provide the Project Management Unit at all times with adequate office 
space and communication facilities.
2.
The Recipient shall, not later than June 30, 2001, employ an independent auditor 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Trustee.
3.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee, on or about September 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Trustee, by October 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Trustee’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Performance Indicators
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
Page  8
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the Grant Account under the respective eligible Category, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Page  9
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the  Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
