Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                      . .
Report No. P-3811-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EKECUTIVE DIREBCTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100.O MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CEINA
FOR THE
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
May 4, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At the time of Appraisal
(September 1983)
1 Yuan (Y) = $0.51
Y 1.98      =  $1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I British thermal unit (Btu)               =  0.252 kilocalories (kcal)
I barrel (bbl)                             =  0.159 cubic meters (cu m)
1 kilogram of coal equivalent (kgce)    =  0.64 kilogram of oil equivalent
1 kilometer (km)                           =  0.621 miles (mi)
1 kilowatt (kW)                            =  1,000 watts (W)
1 megawatt (MW)                            =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
I cubic foot (CF)                          =  0.0283 cubic meter (cu m)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNOOC    -   China National Offshore Oil Corporation
CNTIC    -   China National Technical Import Corporation
EOR      -   Enhanced Oil Recovery
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IOCs     -   International Oil Companies
KOC      -   Kalramay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Corporation
LIB      -   Limited International Bidding
LPG      -   Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MCF      -   Thousand Cubic Feet
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MOPI      -   Ministry of Petroleum Industry



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower         The People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries   Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Corporation (KOC)
and the Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI)
Amount.          $100.3 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end fee
of $0.3 million.
Terms.           20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable
interest rate.
Relending        Same terms and conditions as the Bank loan; the Government bears
Terms:         the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:  The proposed project would assist the Government and KOC in
exploring and evaluating the potential of the Karamay oilfield,
evolving the optimum method of recovering heavy oil, and under-
taking a study on utilizing gas from South China Sea. It would
include high resolution and three dimensional seismic surveys,
drilling of about 530 exploration/appraisal wells, and designing
and carrying out pilot projects for heavy oil recovery. An
important objective of the project is to introduce modern tech-
nology and methods to the petroleum industry in China, expanding
the process initiated under the first two Bank-financed petro-
leum projects in the country to exploration strategy and heavy
oil recovery. The project would provide improvement of tech-
niques and equipment utilized in the evaluation of oil bearing
formations, upgrading of the seismic data processing center at
Urumqi and the computer center at Karamay, establishment of a
training center and technical assistance (including 180 man-
months of expatriate consultant services). The major benefits
from the project are the prospect of establishing additional
light oil reserves and the potential for heavy oil, evaluating
the viability of recovering heavy oil by appropriate thermal
processes, possible optimization of gas use in southern China,
and transfer of technology. The project involves risks common
in petroleum exploration and development. The project has been
designed to minimize these risks, by including seismic surveys
and technical assistance. Even though it is not possible at
this stage to quantify the rate of return from the project, the
prospects of new discoveries and the heavy oil pilot project
proving economic are rated high.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -.
Local    Foreign    Total
…- ($ million) …
Estimated Costs:
Seismic surveys                       20.0     24.0       44.0
Seismic data processing                8.0      8.0       16.0
Exploration and delineation
wells                             298.0    132.0       430.0
Heavy oil pilots                       5.5      11.5      17.0
Supporting facilities &
services                             2.0     10.5       12.5
Imported equipment                     6.0     27.0       33.0
Training & technical
assistance                           2.0      6.0        8.0
Total Base Cost                   341.5    219.0       560.5
Phiysical Contingencies               34.0     21.0       55.0
Price Contingencies                   68.5     33.0      101.5
Total Project Cost /a             444.0    273.0       717.0
Front-end fee                          --       0.3        0.3
Charge on use of foreign
exchange                         36.2       --        36.2
Total Financing Required          480.2    273.3       753.5
Financing
Plan
Government/KOC                       480.2         -     480.2
Suppliers' Credit or Government          -    173.0      173.0
IBRD                                    --    100.3      100.3
Total             480.2    273.3       753.5
Estimated                                IBRD FY  1985    1986       1987      1988
Disbursements;                                          ($ million)
Annual                         8.0      32.0    54.0        6.3
Cumulative                     8.0      40.0    94.0      100.3
Economic Rate
of Return.        N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report. No.4902-CHA, dated May 7, 1984.
/a   Includes taxes and import duties, estimated at 15% of the cost of imported
goods.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
1-        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance the Karamay Petroleum
Project. The loan for $100.3 million equivalent would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable interest rate. A
portion of the loan ($96.2 million) would be onlent to the Karamay Oil-Gas
Exploration and Development Corporation (KOC) on the same terms and
conditions; the Government will bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China: Socialist Economic
Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled "China: Recent
Economic Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. Another economic mission is now in
the field. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Following a period of major institutional changes in the 1950s,
including land reform and the eventual establishment of communes in rural
areas and the extension of public ownership to cover almost all of the modern
sector, development efforts in China have been directed toward the major
objectives of industrialization and poverty reduction. Despite sharp
oscillations in policy and political upheavals like the Great Leap Forward
(1958-61) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China has made substantial
progress toward achieving its objectives. Industrial growth since 1949 has
averaged more than 12% p.a. (compared with under 5% for agriculture); the
current share of industry in GDP (around 44%) is similar to the average for
middle-income developing countries; and the country now produces a far greater
variety of industrial goods than most other developing countries. Per capita
GNP (with adjustments for international comparability) grew at 2.5-3.0% p.a.
in 1957-81, significantly above the average or other low-income developing
countries. In terms of basic education, nutrition and health the Chinese
population is better off than its counterparts in other low income developing
countries.
4.        However, China remains a very poor country, with a GNP per capita of
only $300 in 1982 and about 200 million people or 20% of the population with
unacceptably low incomes. The economy is also inefficient: past growth has
come mainly from massive mobilization of resources. For a country that faces
significant domestic resource constraints, inefficiency is a particularly
serious problem.



- 2 -
5.        To address these problems and ensure rapid growth and improvements
in living standards, the Government initia.ted a program of reform and adjust-
ment in 1979. Economic reform, aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economic system, involves:  (a) improving the quality of central planning and
policy coordination; (b) devolving more decision-making authority to lower
level units; (c) establishing more direct links between incomes and the
performance of economic units and individuals; and (d) relying more on market
mechanisms and economic instruments and less on administrative directives to
influence economic activity. Structural a.djustment, aimed at speeding
improvements in living standards, has involved readjusting the relative shares
of consumption and investment in national income, some major sectoral and
subsectoral readjustments, and greater emphasis on foreign trade. In 1981,
problems with inflation and large budgetary and current account deficits
resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving the highest
priority, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead rapidly with
adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
6.        Reforms have now affected all sectors of the economy and institu-
tions from the central government down to rural households. A major govern-
ment reorganization has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the number of commissions, ministries and agencies under the State
Council from 98 to 52.  Reorganization within ministries also has occurred,
while that of provincial and local governments is now under way. Economic
management has been decentralized: provincial and local authorities have been
given more autonomy in investment decisiorL making and use of credit to finance
investment has increased; provincial. and local governments have been granted
greater budgetary flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or
economize on expenditures; and ministries, new local trading companies and
some enterprises now have authority to engage directly in foreign trade.
7.        Reforms have been most far-reaching in rural areas, where introduc-
tion of various types of the "production responsibility system" has given
small groups and households more autonomy in production and investment
decisions and linked incomes directly with output. By the end of 1982, 92% of
production teams in China had implemented such a system; 78% had implemented a
household responsibility system, whereby collective ownership of farm land and
major equipment is maintained but plots of land are contracted out to
individual households, which can retain whatever they produce beyond their
obligations to the state and to the collective (which account for about one
third of production). The number and types of rural markets have also
increased.
8.        Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but significant systemic changes have occuLrred. Reforms in the management of
state enterprises have aimed at improving incentives through profit retention
schemes and more flexible payment and employment practices. There have also
been experimental changes in the organization of state enterprises, a greater
variety of marketing channels, some price flexibility and adjustment of
relative prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in production



- 3 -
decisions. The scope for cooperative and individual economic activities has
also been enlarged.
9.        Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have already
had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take longer to have a
significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with economic reform
that the Government will need to address. In rural areas, there is a
potential conflict between enhanced economic incentives and equity in income
distribution, continued provision of basic services, and mobilization of
labor. In the state enterprise sector, many units are still inclined to
overinvest and overproduce, since substantial decentralization of decision
making and control over resources has not been accompanied by necessary
reforms in the pricing system. More use is being made of the market, but
information and transport systems are still weak, markets are fragmented and
competition is limited. It has also been difficult to develop effective
indirect fiscal and monetary policy instruments.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
10.       During the past four years, the Government has followed a strategy
of setting relatively modest targets while implementing economic and admin-
istrative measures that contribute to adjustment and stabilization as well as
to economic growth. The various measures have included: major increases in
agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other prices;
rationing and other administrative measures to improve efficiency of resource
use; cutbacks in state capital construction investment; fiscal measures to
limit the budget deficit; increases in interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate for
foreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports and
economize on imports.
II.       These economic and administrative measures, combined with systemic
changes, have played an important role in the impressive performance of the
Chinese economy in recent years. Gross agricultural and industrial output at
constant prices grew by 7.3% per year between 1978 and 1982 - agriculture by
7.5% and industry by 7.2% (heavy industry by 3.4% and light industry by
11.8%). Net material product (NMP) at constant prices grew by an estimated
6.3% p.a. during the same period. Net investment has stagnated in real terms,
while material consumption grew by over 9% p.a. between 1978 and 1982. The
share of investment in NMP was reduced from 36% in 1978 to 29% in 1982.
Domestic consumption of energy rose by less than 2% p.a. during 1978-82.
12.       Structural adjustment and rapid overall economic growth, combined
with a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1982), have led
to rapid increases in per capita incomes. In urban areas, real per capita
incomes increased by 4.8% p.a. between 1978 and 1982; in rural areas the real
increase in per capita incomes was about 12% p.a. While more prosperous areas
and households may have benefitted the most and income differentials at a
local level may have increased, many poor areas and households have also
enjoyed substantial income improvements.



- 4 -
13.       The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to much of
this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a priority for the
adjustment program. But achieving such a cutback has proved difficult.
Decentralization of investment decision mak;ing has permitted a rapid growth in
investment financed from retained earnings or local resources. As a result,
most of the cutbacks in investment have been in large centrally financed
projects (in 1981 even the priority sectors of energy and transportation were
affected), though some of these were revived in 1982.
14.       Government policy measures have helped restore domestic economic
stability by lowering the rate of inflation from 6% in 1980 to 2.4% in 1981
and 2% in 1982, and by reducing the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate
financing items) from 7% of NMP in 1979 and 5% in 1980 to less than 2% in 1981
and 1982. The restoration of fiscal stabi:Lity was achieved mainly by sharp
cuts in expenditures on investment. Subsidies (mainly on daily living
necessities) rose dramatically from about 7% of total expenditures in 1978 to
26% in 1982, when they were 9% of NMP.
15.       China's external position has also changed greatly in recent years;
the current account deficit of $3.4 billion in 1980 was converted into a $5.6
billion surplus in 1982 and an estimated $4.6 billion surplus in 1983, an
improvement far greater than anticipated. The real growth of merchandise
exports has been very impressive, averaging over 15% p.a. during 1978-82,
mainly because of rapid growth in manufactured exports.  The growth rate has
been declining steadily, however.  MeanwhiLe the volume of imports declined in
both 1981 and 1982, due in part to the lagged effect of contract cancellations
and suspensions, but also to delays in equipment deliveries and to problems in
obtaining high technology goods. A substantial increase in imports is
expected in 1984 and 1985 as China expands its investment program and imports
more machinery and equipment.
16.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative balance of
payments strategy has been reduced foreign borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the
Government cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and in 1982 took advantage
of the unexpectedly strong current account position to repay commercial bank
and other loans.  In 1981 China's debt service ratio was 7.8%, and in 1982
10.0%, due in part to accelerated loan repayments. At the end of 1981 total
reserves (excluding gold) were $5 billion; by the end of 1982 they had
increased to over $11 billion (equivalent to about seven months of 1982
imports), and by the end of 1983 they were nearly $15 billion.
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       During the remainder of the 1980s, the Government's efforts to
improve living standards should be helped considlerably by continuation of a
relatively low population growth rate; by opport:unities to make greater and
more efficient use of foreign technology and capital; and by the potential for
improving efficiency through economic reform. Rapid and equitable economic
development is constrained by a number of factors, however. There are serious
shortages of skilled manpower (current enrollment in universities and tech-
nical and vocational schools is one quarter of the average rate for other
developing countries). With limited possibilities for expanding the culti-



vated area and with cropping intensities and yields already quite high, the
growth rate for agriculture is unlikely to average more than 3-4% p.a. during
the 1980s. Energy availability will continue to constrain industrial growth,
and there are capacity constraints in the transport and commercial sectors.
Large investments will be required in energy and transport at a time when
competing demands from other sectors, especially housing, are very great,
domestic revenues have not been growing rapidly, and decentralization has
weakened government control over investment.
18.       In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-
Year Plan (published in December 1982 but covering the period January 1981
December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment, reform,
consolidation and improvement of the national economy." The plan period is
essentially viewed as an interim period during which the foundation will be
laid for more rapid economic development under subsequent plans. Modest
targets are set for production and income growth (4% p.a. for gross agri-
cultural and industrial output and for NMP), consumption is expected to grow
faster than investment, prices will be kept basically stable, the budget
deficit will be kept low, and a significant expansion in foreign trade is
forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than exports. Priority will be
given to measures improving efficiency rather than maximization of output, but
the Government expects most production targets to be surpassed, as they have
been in the first two years of the Plan.
19.       Reform implementation will continue during the next few years.
Rural reforms will be broadened and strengthened, with the production
responsibility system extended to new spheres of activity, new types of
organization (including joint ventures between rural and urban units)
encouraged, and the administrative functions of communes separated from their
economic functions. In state-owned industry, taxation will fully replace
profit remittance as the primary means of raising government revenue, indus-
trial administration will be streamlined, and more inefficient enterprises
will be closed down. The commercial system will be reformed and cooperative
and individual commerce, particularly in rural areas, will be promoted. In
investment planning, the Government is striving for more effective imple-
mentation of existing administrative regulations, but improving the structure
and efficiency of investment will be a long and difficult process, dependent
very much on progress on other aspects of reform. Measures to introduce
formal economic analysis (including use of shadow prices) into investment
decisions and to make producing units were economically and financially
responsible for their decisions through appropriate pricing and incentive
schemes are especially important. Price reform itself is recognized as being
crucial, but in view of the complexities and magnitude of the changes
required, the Government has decided that it cannot implement comprehensive
price reform until after 1985. However, appropriate upward or downward
adjustments in some of the most distorted prices are being made, and the
prices of many minor commodities are being allowed to fluctuate according to
market conditions.
20.       During the remainder of the 1980s, China's development and moderni-
zation programs are expected to result in rapid growth of imports of capital
and intermediate goods. Foreign capital requirements for energy development



- 6 -
will be particularly heavy.  By the late 1980a, some imports of oil are also
likely to be necessary before new domestic energy production capacity is
established.  China's temporary current account surpluses thus are expected to
change to moderate deficits over the next several years. But the overall rate
of import expansion, the size of the current; account deficit, and the
magnitude of foreign borrowing requirements are very sensitive to assumptions
about economic trends and the effectiveness of government programs. For
example, an acceleration of economic growth without significant improvements
in efficiency, especially energy efficiency,, could result in large current
account deficits by the end of the 1980s. 'En fact, a relatively high rate of
economic growth of 6-7% p.a. during the rest. of the 1980s (which is the growth
rate used in the projections in Annex 1) wi:Ll probably be feasible only if
major improvements in energy efficiency conl:inue.
21.       China also has a strong clalm to concessionary lending because it is
still one of the poorer countries in the world. However, access to
concessionary capital to finance its development and modernization program is
limited: apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of concessionary
capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and
will probably average only $500-600 million a year during the 1980s.
22.       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will be
a difficult decade. But looking further ahesad, China's economic prospects
appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants into the labor force will have
received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit will have
been reduced. Further progress will have besen made in tapping China's large
energy potential and in using it more efficiently. Continuation of recent
manufactured export trends should generate additional foreign exchange,
enabling the Government to use foreign capital more freely and be less con-
cerned about its terms. If the country's iimmense wealth of human talent,
effort and discipline can be combined with policies that increase the effi-
ciency of resource use, China will be able to achieve continuing substantial
increases in the living standards of its people. Whether this potential can
be realized, however, will depend crucially on thte success of the Government's
program of reform and adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II -. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
23.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now underway, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its consider-
able development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover, working
with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its position in
the world community after its lengthy isolation. Secondly, the Bank should
assist China in removing the major constraints oni development: shortages of
energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern technology.
Even more important, the Bank should help the authorities to use these and
other inputs more efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment
control, as well as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the
Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China's remaining



-7 -
poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the basic needs
of most of its people, these efforts should concentrate on the poorest rural
areas.
24.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, 14 projects involving lending of about $1,484 million have been
approved. Three have been in education (University Development, Agricultural
Education and Research and Polytechnic/TV University), three in energy (Daqing
Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development, Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum and Lubuge
Hydroelectric), four in agriculture (North China Plain, Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation, Rubber Development and Rural Credit), two in transport (Three
Ports and Railway), one in industry (Industrial Credit), and one in technical
cooperation (Technical Cooperation Credit). Annex II coatains a sumnary
statement on these loans and credits as of March 31, 1984.
Economic and Sector Work
25.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to
provide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy.  This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum (Report
No. 4072-CHA) analyzing developments over the next two years was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. In addition, the Bank has
undertaken studies in several areas important for our understanding of the
Chinese system, including rural finance and urban planning and management in
Shanghai. An economic mission which visited China in March/April 1984 will
prepare a report on long-term development issues and options.
26.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally to
introduce new methods of economic management and planning. In the context of
the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual was developed with Bank
assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China Investment Bank. The
Bank is now helping the Agricultural Bank of China to develop a similar manual
in connection with the Rural Credit Project. A program of economic research
on China's development problems, aimed at the application of advanced analy-
tical techniques, is underway in collaboration with Chinese economic research
institutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and analysis of structural
change.
27.       Sector studies will help, inter alia, to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank Group-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong Province under the North China Plain
Agriculture Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and agri-
cultural manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and Research
Project. A rural finance study provided the background for the Rural Credit
Project. A report entitled "The Health Sector in China' (No. 4664-CHA, dated
April 13, 1984) reviews rural health care delivery systems and health manpower
development.



-8-
Near-Term Lending
28.       Work is proceeding on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on technical assistance and training.
Several are in the key sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the
Bank's efforts will help to increase the supply of fuel and power. Future
petroleum projects will, like the first three, emphasize the introduction of
modern technology, staff training and studies.  Cither operations are likely to
continue support for electric power and involve development and management of
large underground coal mines in Shanxi province. In transportation, work is
proceeding on a second railway project and a second ports project to provide
additional capacity.
29.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support for education through a second
agricultural education project and another university development project.
Support for agriculture would continue through projects to provide further
assistance in agricultural research and to assist the Government in forestry
and seeds. In industry, further loans will be made to the China Investment
Bank, and there will be projects for technical renovation and modernization in
industries such as fertilizers and machine tools. Bank assistance is also
planned for a rural water supply project.
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SUBSECTOR
Resource Endowment and Production Rates
30.       China is well endowed with primary energy and has abundant resources
in terms of coal, hydrocarbons, oil shale and hydropower potential. China is
now the world's fourth largest producer of commercial energy. Coal, its
traditional source of energy, meets some 70% of the demand for commercial
energy, with production having risen from some 60 million tons in 1952 to 666
million tons in 1982. Coal and lignite reserves are estimated at over 600
billion tons. Reserves of oil shale in China are estimated unofficially at
400 billion tons. Current production of shale oil from the Liaoning and
Guangdong mines is about 300,000 tons p.a. China's hydropower potential,
among the largest in the world, is estimated at 1,900 billion kWh per year
(present hydro generation is about 74 billion kWh). While geothermal
phenomena are abundant in the mountainous southwestern part of the country,
geothermal energy has not been developed to a significant extent in China and
its role is likely to remain limited. As in other developing economies, non-
commercial fuels such as crop residue and animal waste are used extensively,
especially in rural areas. China pioneered and is now the leading producer of
biogas.
31.       Oil and Gas.  Unofficial estimates of recoverable oil reserves range
from 1.8 to 2.5 billion tons, while possible and probable reserves are
currently estimated at 5-10 billion tons onshore and 4-8 billion tons
offshore.  Production has grown from about: 0.1 million tons in 1950 to 106
million tons in 1979. Recoverable reserves of non-associated gas are



- 9 -
currently estimated at 80 billion cu m, about 90% of which is located in
Sichuan Province. In addition, recoverable reserves of associated gas are
estimated at about 50 billion cu m. Total recoverable gas reserves (130
billion cu m) are equivalent to over 110 million tons of oil. There is,
however, a view that gas reserves have not been adequately explored and the
presently known recoverable reserves are a mere fraction of the full
potential. Recent gas discoveries in Zhongyuan and the South China Sea lend
credence to this view point.
Exploration
32.       Onshore Areas.  Until the late 1970s, China was remarkably success-
ful in implementing a policy of total self-reliance. However, the rate of
discovery has been declining as a result of a large number of features which
characterize China's exporatory efforts. On the one hand, the immense size
and geological complexity of the prospective area impose an enormous require-
ment in resources which cannot be made available from the system. The
policies dictated by central planning and the objective of self-reliance have
limited cross-fertilization and access to new technologies and ideas, and have
emphasized production and short-term gains over long-term prospecting efforts
(China's enormous geological potential could justify a much larger exploration
program). As part of the effort to meet the formidable target it has set to
double oil output by the end of the century, the Government has recently
decided to accelerate its exploration program. Over the medium term, the main
prospecting efforts will remain in the better understood east and north-
eastern basins. Prospecting efforts will also be expanded in the under-
explored west and northwest, including the Junggar Basin, which has been
neglected despite good prospects for discovery of large reserves. These areas
could contribute significantly to China's production in the 1990s. Taking
account of its technological constraints, China has secured, on a limited
scale, the assistance of foreign petroleum service companies in undertaking
seismic surveys and exploratory drilling in especially difficult areas. In
addition, China has tried to attract international oil companies to explore in
northwestern basins, but the industry has so far appeared to prefer the
offshore areas, where infrastructure constraints are considerably less than
they are onshore and where extensive geophysical surveys could be carried out
at a lower cost.
33.       Offshore Areas.  China's seismic work and development of offshore
structures in the Bohai area prior to 1979 made the limitations of its
offshore technology apparent. Thereafter, in a major policy departure, China
sought the active cooperation of foreign oil companies in these areas. Forty-
eight foreign oil companies, from 12 countries, were invited to undertake
geophysical and seismic work in over 420,000 sq km of China's offshore sedi-
mentary basins. On the basis of these surveys, six prospective oil-bearing
basins have been identified.
34.       In early 1982, the Government promulgated regulations that would
enable foreign oil companies to participate in exploring China's offshore
basins. Further, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) was
created to invite and evaluate bids and enter into offshore petroleum agree-
ments with foreign oil companies. The new regulations allow petroleum



- 10 -
contracts that make foreign oil companies bear l:he cost of all exploration
investment and the accompanying risks. Once a commercial oil and/or gas field
is discovered, both the foreign contractor and CNOOC will invest jointly in
its development. Initially the foreign contractor will be responsible for
developing and operating the field,, but CNOOC maty take over as the field's
operator whenever it deems fit. The rights of the foreign contracting party
to recover its investment and expenses and to receive remuneration for the
petroleum produced would be specified in the contract. The response to the
first phase Chinese offering has been adequate. Eleven production sharing
contracts have been concluded, and another four or five contracts are expected
to be concluded by the end of 1984.
Current and Anticipated Level of Oil Production
35.       China's major oilfields, which together account for about 90% of
China's oil production, have peaked and entered a declining phase. Over the
last two years, oil output fell by about 3% and has plateaued at just over 100
million tons. With no major discovery to offset this fall, China will need to
rely increasingly on infill drilling, enhanced oil recovery (EOR) methods,
exploring for and developing peripheral reservoirs, and rapidly developing
small discoveries. The Ministry of Petroleum Inidustry (MOPI) has initiated
such actions, and efforts are underway to expand several oilfields. These
actions may allow China to temporarily stem the decline and maintain annual
oil output in the 95-100 million ton range up to 1985. However, beyond that,
oil output from the major fields would be declining rapidly.  Furthermore,
while prospects for offshore discoveries are very good, oil from the offshore
areas is unlikely to augment China's oil production significantly before
1990. Thus, between 1985 and 1990, oil production may fall to 90 million tons
p.a. Prospects beyond 1990 depend on the success of current initiatives to
develop offshore structures with the! assistance of foreign oil companies. It
appears improbable however, that China will be able to meet its target of
doubling oil production by the end cf the century.
Consumption Pattern
36.       China's rapid development of energy production has made it the
world's third largest consumer of commercial energy. However, consumption per
capita is only about 650 kg of coal equivalent (kgce) p.a., which is slightly
above the average for developing countries (620 kgce). Rising oil production
has increased the role of hydrocarbons in the Chinese economy (replacing coal,
the traditional source of commercial energy), with the relative share of oil
and natural gas increasing from about 2% in 1965 to over 20% in 1982. The
major consumers of oil are the industrial and commercial sectors (45%),
followed by transport (17%) and power (20%). About 20% of oil output has been
exported, generating roughly $5.4 billion, or about 22% of China's total
foreign exchange earnings in 1982. An unusual and wasteful feature of the
consumption pattern is the direct use of crude as fuel oil, to the extent of 6
million tons in 1982. This is partly attributable to the nonavailability of
refining facilities close to the producing, field, transportation constraints
and the poor quality of crude.



- 11 -
37.       Over the last 17 years, consumption of oil has been growing at an
annual rate of about 12%. However, faced with falling oil and gas production,
efforts are being made to decelerate this growth (consumption in 1982 was
reported to have been about 82 million tons against the peak of 90 million
tons in 1978). However, a further reduction of consumption may not be
possible without adversely affecting the country's rate of economic growth.
Consumption of 90 million tons, which could be the case by 1985, would imply
that oil would cease to be a significant source of foreign exchange earnings
for China.
Natural Gas
38.       Gas production declined by about 15% between 1980 and 1982, when it
amounted to 11.9 billion cu m, composed of about equal amounts of associated
and non-associated gas. The major non-associated gas fields in Sichuan
Province have been active for over 100 years and have now entered a declining
phase. Production of associated gas is also expected to decline. A fall in
gas production would inevitably stimulate demand for liquid hydrocarbons.
Prospects for developing alternate sources of gas have improved. Preliminary
estimates place reserves in the new Zhongyuan gas discovery at about 3.5
trillion cubic feet. The oil discovery made in the Bohai Bay is reported to
have a high gas-oil ratio. The offshore gas discovery in the South China Sea
is of significant magnitude. Further gas discoveries are likely to be made as
offshore exploration gathers momentum. It is therefore necessary for China to
take steps to exploit this potential. In the coming months, the Bank intends
to review this aspect in considerable detail with MOPI.
Prices
39.       A comparison between petroleum product prices in China and interna-
tional prices reveals that the average price of a reconstituted barrel is
about Y 53 or $27, which approximates the international price (FOB) net of
average transport costs within China. In pricing petroleum products, China,
like many other countries, uses a system of cross subsidies; some products
(motor gasoline and kerosene) are priced above international levels and others
(diesel, fuel oil) below this level. The price of fuel oil is the relevant
comparator for the value of natural gas. In China, the price of natural gas
approximates the fuel oil price in Btu equivalent. The Government has
initiated a series of administrative measures, including quotas, in order to
contain the demand for petroleum products and encourage its substitution by
coal.  The Government is aware that some energy products are underpriced.  It
is considering a revision of petroleum prices as a part of its overall price
adjustment. There is a proposal to increase the price of crude oil from Y 100
(Y 115 and Y 130 in some cases) per ton to Y 175 per ton. This proposal is
pending a decision of the State Council. As an interim measure, starting from
July 1982, a special tax of Y 70/ton has been levied on crude and fuel oil
burnt as fuel.
Investment
40.       The average investment in the petroleum sector over the last six
years has been about Y 4.5 billion ($2.3 billion) per annum. In order to



- 12 -
arrest the anticipated decline in existing oilfields and secure even a modest
increase over the current production level, Chirna would need to step up its
onshore petroleum investment substantially. Offshore development would create
a further drain on resources, since the Government would share development
costs (up to 51% under joint venture agreements') Depending on the success of
offshore exploratory efforts, China's share could amount to several billion
dollars. China would not be in a position to finance such an ambitious pro-
gram from its own resources. It has accordingly decided to finance all off-
shore development from commercial/bilateral borrowing and suppliers'
credits. Consequently, to finance its share of the offshore exploration/
development in Bohai Bay, the Government has relied largely on loans from
Japan. Total borrowing for this development is expected to exceed
$1 billion. Further, for the present the Government wishes to limit use of
commercial and suppliers' credits, etc., to its offshore program. Limiting
cofinancing to a specific activity, according to Chinese policy makers, has
several advantages: it makes credit monitoring easier; debt servicing would
not be an issue as offshore activities would gererate foreign exchange
directly; financial requirements are likely to Me high and risks relatively
low; and this will assist China in not only obtaining the necessary resources
but also securing better terms.
Institutions
41.       The Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI) generally oversees all
activities in the oil and natural gas subsector, including policy making and
overall planning, exploration, production, distribution, transportation,
research/design and training. Created as a bureau in the Ministry of Fuel
Industry in 1949, it became a full ministry in 1955 and oversaw the opening of
the Daqing oilfield in 1959 as well as subsequent discoveries. The petroleum
industry has been in a state of cont:Lnuous change since the 1970s; this has
blurred the lines of responsibility and created considerable overlap of
functions in exploration and refining between MOPI, the Ministry of Geology
and the Ministry of Chemical Industry. Some of these problems may be resolved
as the Government's program for reorganization is implemented. In September
1983, the Petrochemical Corporation of China was created, and all industries
using petroleum products or natural gas as feedstock have been transferred to
this Corporation. In addition, all refineries with a capacity of over
1 million tons have come under the management of this Corporation, which is on
a par with the Ministry.
42.       Under the supervision of MOPI, the primary responsibility for oil
and gas operations rests with the regional oil companies. Through the process
of iterative consultations with each company, MOPI establishes the companies'
production and net income targets. Once this is done, each company enjoys a
fair amount of operational autonomy and is answerable to MOPI essentially for
results. In fact, difficult logistics, great distance and the sheer numbers
involved make MOPI intervention on anything but the most basic issues
virtually impossible. Such an organizational system has worked effectively so
far. However, these large oil comparnies, self-contained as they are, have
little or no contact amongst themselves; the resulting insulation makes
learning from one another's experience and diffusion of new technology
significantly more difficult.



- 13 -
43.       The Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Corporation (KOC)
will essentially have overall responsibility for implementing the proposed
project. The Karamay Mining Bureau was established in June 1956 to develop
the Karamay oilfield. In January 1983, management of the Karamay oilfield was
reorganized and the company was renamed. All of KOC's operational and
financial matters are under the jurisdiction of MOPI, while personnel matters
are supervised by the Xinjiang Petroleum Bureau. KOC's management consists of
a president who is assisted by one senior vice-president and three vice-
presidents, in charge of production, exploration and scientific research;
administration and finance; and coordination. Promulgation of a legally
satisfactory charter establishing the powers and functions of KOC is condition
of loan negotiations.
44.       KOC's functions are largely managerial.  All tasks relating to
exploration are currently undertaken directly by KOC. Specialized companies
are responsible for various oilfield activities such as drilling, surface con-
struction, production, maintenance, design and research. These companies,
which are sub-units of KOC rather than separate legal entities, are divided
into brigades and teams according to the standard Chinese organizational
pattern. The brigade leader and his staff (usually 10-15 specialists) are
professionals with managerial responsibilities. A team typically consists of
50-100 skilled workers, one of whom is designated the team leader.
45.       KOC personnel are hardworking, disciplined and competent.  KOC's
managers are aware of its technical deficiencies, which arise from outdated
equipment and obsolescent technology. Taking these limitations into account,
the project emphasizes technology transfer and institution building. Overall,
there is little doubt that KOC will be able to carry out this project with
competence and speed.
Sector Issues and the Role of the Bank
46.       China has so far been extremely successful in developing its oil
resources. However, the three major oilfields, which together account for 90%
of its oil production, have peaked. The rate of discovery has been going
down, with Renqiu being the last major oil discovery in 1975. At least in the
medium term, China faces the prospect of declining oil production. While it
is likely to remain self-sufficient in energy throughout the 1980s, it pro-
bably cannot sustain the growth rate achieved over the last two decades
because of constraints to the rate at which alternative sources of energy
(gas, hydro, coal) can be developed and brought to consumption centers.
China's petroleum exploration strategy over the longer term is to increase
exploratory efforts, especially in the northwest onshore areas, and in off-
shore areas where private industry investment is being actively sought. On
the energy demand side, various measures to control demand are currently being
implemented, including quota systems, technical assistance to enterprises, and
some industrial restructuring.
47.       Demand for petroleum products, while in 1982 contained at a fixed
level of about 82 million tons through administrative measures, is expected to
pick up over the next few years thus reducing the potential for exports. The
period between 1985 and 1990 could be difficult, seeing a steady erosion in



- 14 -
foreign exchange earnings from exports. Thus for- China, sustaining production
at the current level is of critical importance, and a marginal increase in
aggregate production would be of considerable advantage.  To achieve this,
however, will require a substantial investment in terms of new technology,
adoption of EOR methods, infill drilling, explciring for and developing
peripheral reservoirs, rapidly developing smal.l. discoveries, and above all
building the necessary infrastructure to utiliz,e associated and non-associated
gas, which could replace liquid hydrocarbons.
48.       With the prospect of declining oil production, China's regional
companies are being required to undertake exploration and production under
increasingly difficult andi complex conditions, but they are hampered by the
lack of both appropriate technology and relevant equipment.  To help overcome
these constraints, China has sought the collaboration of international oil
companies (IOCs). Several. IOCs have been invited to visit China's oilfields
to see if they are interested in providing technical assistance for explora-
tion and development. Wit.h similar objectives, Chinese delegations have also
visited various IOCs.  In these efforts, China has met with little success.
The considerable interest in China's petroleum. potential has been confined
almost exclusively to the offshore areas; most: IOCs have expressed little
interest in providing technical assistance because they can obtain higher
returrns by deploying their scarce technical staff in other ways.
49.       It is in this conitext that the Government has sought the Bank's
participation in the petroleun sector,  Over the past three years, Bank staff
have assisted several regional Chinese oil companies in assessing the nature
of the problems they were facing, providing state-of-the-art expertise,
proposing solutions, diagnosing technological gaps, prevailing upon them to
undertake relevant technical studi.es, assisting them in preparing terms of
reference, and securing consultants, The Bank will subsequently assist these
organizations in overseeing these studies and designing corrective measures
and supervising their implementation.
50.       The basic rationale for the Bank's participation in China's petro-
leum sector therefore lies in the packaging of an appropriate technical
assistance program, monitoring it, and subsequently overseeing its implemen-
tation. However, conditions are so diverse wit:hin the different producing
areas of the country and the management problems of each oil company so unique
that for each oilfield a separate package of teclnical assistance has to be
evolved.  This requires a detailed review by Bank staff of the entire opera-
tions of each company, ancd agreement on the area where assistance would be
most useful. For example, in the Daqing oilfield, the focus of the first
Bank-financed petroleum project (Loan 2231-CHA), technical assistance
addressed EOR methods, infill drilling, reservoir engineering, production
techniques, etc. In the Zhongyuan oilfield, assisted through the Bank's
second petroleum project ('Loan 2252-CHA), technical assistance related to
exploration and drilling methods under conditions of high temperature and
pressure. In both cases, however, the main objective remained the same, that
is, to provide a specific package of technical assistance for priority produc-
tion areas -- assistance t-hat would maximize the chances of further increasing
production at an acceptable cost.



- 15 -
51.       Similarly, the Bank's broad objective in the Karamay Petroleum
Project and the major justification for its involvement is the design of a
technical assistance program. Specific components have been tailored to meet
the needs of KOC, not only in oilfield technology but also in designing
exploration and heavy oil recovery programs, which aim at establishing a
higher and longer-term production base for the Karamay oilfield. The project
will also focus the attention of the Government on natural gas as a source of
potential energy through assistance in undertaking a detailed study on the
potential demand for natural gas from South China Sea, and in determining the
viability of supplying natural gas to the potential market. While the
exploration component will largely be limited to KOC, it is expected that the
heavy oil component and the gas-related study will have a countrywide impact
and contribute to increased oil and gas production.
52.       It is anticipated that the Bank's future lending in this sector
would support the Government's efforts to stem the decline in its oil produc-
tion through the application of EOR methods, and exploring and developing the
peripheral areas of existing fields. In addition, the Bank would assist China
in diversifying its energy base through more rapid development of heavy oil
reserves and optimizing the use of natural gas (through rehabilitation of old
gas fields, development of new fields and provisions for infrastructure).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       The project was identified in May 1983 and appraised in September
1983. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 16 to 25, 1984. The
Government of China was represented by Mr. Ge Fucun, and KOC by Mr. Zhang
Yi. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4902-CHA, dated May 7, 1984) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary data are
provided in Annex III.
Background
54.       The Karamay oilfield is located in the northwestern part of the
Junggar Basin, which is about 3,000 km west of Beijing in a sparsely populated
desert area. The basin covers an area of about 130,000 sq km and is part of
the Xinjiang Autonomous Region. While the first discovery was made at
Dushanzi in the south in 1897, systematic exploration did not start until 1953
under the Sino-Soviet Technical Cooperation Agreement. The first commercial
oil discovery was made at Karamay in 1955. Since then over 20 oilfields have
been discovered and developed at Karamay. Current annual production is about
4 million tons of oil. Recoverable reserves of light oil are estimated at
30-40 million tons from the proven reserves. Additional reserves likely to be
established by the proposed exploration program are estimated at 300 million
tons of light oil and about one billion tons of heavy oil-in-place.



- 16 -
Project Objectives
55.       The proposed project has three major objectives:  firstly, to
explore and evaluate the potential of light oi:L at the Karamay oilfield;
secondly, to evaluate the potential of heavy o:il and to evolve the optimum
method of thermal recovery to enhance the production of heavy oil; and
thirdly, and most importantly, to provide technical assistance, thereby
continuing the process of introducing modern technology and methods into the
Chinese petroleum industry, a process initiated under the first two Bank-
financed petroleum projects in China. Towards this end, the project provides
for the critically needed technical inputs for KOC's overall exploration and
development program, including import of modern oilfield equipment and
technology to improve the evaluation of oil bearing formations and support
extensive exploration activities in. difficult terrain; several studies to
improve KOC's understanding of the reservoir and better manage and develop the
fields; upgrading the seismic processing cente:r; and establishing a training
center and a computer center at Karamay.  In addition, with the view towards
focusing the Government's attention on the opt:imization of gas usage, the
project includes a gas utilization study for southern China.
Project Description
56.       The proposed project will. comprise tlhe following components:
A.   Exploration and Appraisal, Program
1.  conducting conventional, high resolution and three dimensional
seismic surveys with three local and three foreign crews for a
period of two years;
2. drilling about 100 exploration/appraisal wells in the Wuerhe-
Hungchiba area, about 10 exploration wells in the Hongshanzui-
Chepaizi area and about 26CI appraisal/development wells in the
rest of the Karamay area, including heavy oil appraisal wells;
3. improving oilfield logistics and engineering capabilities by
providing transport and oilfield equipment (cementing, frac-
turing, workover, coring, testing, laboratory, formation and
production logging equipment) to support an exploration and
delineation program;
4. upgrading the Urumqi seismic data processing center to accom-
modate the future load of high resolution and three-dimensional
seismic surveys; and
5.  establishing a computer center at Karamay for storing and
processing of oilfield technical, administrative and financial
data.



- 17 -
B. Heavy Oil Recovery
1. designing pilot projects for thermal recovery of heavy oil in
the Karamay and Liaohe oilfields;
2. undertaking techno-economic studies to evaluate the refining
methods for heavy oil, the value of fractions it would yield and
the means of transporting it out of Karamay and Liaohe;
3. drilling about 160 exploration/delineation wells in Karamay and
Liaohe to firm up the extent and characteristics of various
reservoirs;
4. drilling and completing necessary injection/production/
observation wells and installation of surface/subsurface
facilities; and
5. monitoring the performance of the pilot projects and designing
optimum processes for field-wide application.
C. Training and Technical Assistance
1. establishing a training center for skilled workers and supplying
it with necessary audio-visual materials, training equipment and
a library. In addition, professionals will be trained through
short local courses or foreign study tours to appropriate
institutions; and
2. provision of experts and services to perform the following
activities: (a) a stratigraphic and structural study; (b)
reservoir engineering study for tight conglomerate reservoir
(Wuerhe); (c) devising training curricula and teaching methods
for skilled workers and professionals; (d) a study on KOC's
costing; and (e) undertaking a study for utilization of gas from
South China Sea.
Project Design
57.       (a)  Exploration.  The proposed exploration program covers three
areas at different stages of exploration maturity.  The project has been
designed to take note of this and optimize the next steps in exploration:
1.  in the Karamay producing area where the trapping mechanism is
well known, KOC will continue to explore with conventional
means;
2. in the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area, however, KOC faces serious
geological and technical difficulties. The exploration and
delineation program would therefore follow a stepwise approach,
and a regional geological study and a high resolution seismic
survey (using expatriate crews) will be undertaken. Further,
initial well drilling will be carried out at locations that
carry a high geological ranking; and



- 18 -
3. in the Hongshanzui-Chepaizi area, which is at the earliest
stage of exploration, the project provides for expatriate
assistance in high resolution and three-dimensional (3-D)
seismic surveys.
58.       KOC will consult with the Bank at various critical stages of
decision making in its exploration program. It: will review and agree with the
Bank on its seismic program for the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area and the Hongshanzui-
Chepaizi area. The results of these seismic programs and the exploration
program designed on this basis would be discussed and agreed with the Bank
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.13). In addition, KOC will review with
the Bank its overall exploration program under the project (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.14). The Government indicated its intention to undertake
a study on transporting oil from Karamay out oF Xinjiang taking account of
KOC's exploration results and development strategy.
59.       (b)  Heavy Oil Pilot.  The heavy oil reserves in Karamay are
estimated at about one bi:Llion tons.  Equally Large reserves exist in Liaohe,
in northeast China. These reserves repre!sent significant energy potential,
but efforts made by China to exploit this potential have been less than
successful because China has not had access to the latest thermal recovery
technology. To evolve appropriate methocLs for recovering heavy oil, the
proposed project will assist MOPI/KOC in undertaking a series of pilot
projects with the assistance of corLsultarLts. As competent designing, selec-
tion of appropriate reservoirs, use of st:ate-of-the-art technology and careful
monitoring are critical for a successful pilot project, efforts will be made
to secure technical assistance from a foreign petroleum service company that
has extensive experience in heavy oil. At the same time, methods of refining
heavy oil would need to be studied,, the value of fractions it would yield
assessed and means of transporting it from the oilfields to the market
evaluated. The results of such a techno-economic study would need to be
integrated with the results of pilot projects prior to selecting method(s) for
full-scale development of heavy oil reserves. Design of the pilots would be
completed by March 31, 1985 and the techno-economic study by December 31,
1986; the findings of the study/piLots w:ill be reviewed with the Bank and the
consequent action plan agreed upon (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.10).
60.       (c)  Technical Assistance & Training.  In collaboration with KOC, a
review of its overall technical capabilities was undertaken during appraisal
and efforts were made to identify technology gaps and evolve a package of
technical assistance to bridge these gaps. Over and above the study on heavy
oil, a reservoir engineering study will be undertaken to resolve some of the
production problems likely to be encount(ered in the Wuerhe-Hungchiba producing
formations, which consist of extremttely tight conglomeratic sands. The study
will attempt to determine well spacing, well completion, optimum production
rates and production stimulation techniques. Results of this study will be
relevant not only for the Karamay oilfield but. all other oilfields with
similar characteristics. Further, in order to investigate the composition and
distribution of reservoir bodies, a stratigraphic and structural study will be
undertaken for purposes of outlining the most prospective areas. Both these
studies will be carried out by qualified expatriate consultants by December 31,
1985 and 1986 respectively; the results and the consequent action plan will be
reviewed with the Bank (draft Project Agreement, Sections 2.08 and 2.09).



- 19 -
61.       The training facilities currently available in Karamay were
evaluated and found to be inadequate. Under the proposed project, a training
center catering to over 1,000 skilled workers a year would be established. It
will provide training courses in drilling, production, logging, cementing, mud
chemistry, etc. Refresher courses will be organized to ensure that the tech-
nical staff keep abreast of the latest technology and techniques. In
addition, short courses on financial and economic analysis and internal
auditing would be provided to the financial and planning staff. KOC will
appoint consultants by March 31, 1985 to design the training curricula and
assist the training center in evolving appropriate teaching materials and
methods (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.12). On-the-job training would be
provided for both professional and skilled workers by expatriates hired
through the service contracts to operate and maintain the equipment supplied
under the project. Further, consultants engaged for various studies under the
technical assistance program would train their Chinese counterparts.
62.       Under the proposed project, a study for utilization of gas from
South China Sea would be carried out. This study would, inter-alia, undertake
a market survey, identify potential demand for natural gas, rank gas uses in
terms of priority, relate end uses with the sources of supply and compare the
economic advantage of utilizing gas domestically over exporting it. The
results of the study will be provided to the Bank by December 31, 1985 and the
consequent course of action will be agreed with the Bank (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.02).
Project Implementation
63.       All project components are scheduled to be completed by mid-1989.
Seismic surveys are expected to be completed by mid-1986, the exploratory
drilling program by 1988 and the heavy oil recovery pilot by mid-1989. KOC
will have the overall responsibility for implementing the project, except for
the gas use study and the heavy oil pilot project at Liaohe, which will be the
responsibility of MOPI. KOC's Geological Exploration Department will be in
charge of the seismic program; its Drilling Company will undertake all explo-
ratory and delineation drilling; and Production Company No. 2 will be respon-
sible for implementing the heavy oil pilot in Karamay. Both the Drilling
Company and Production Company No. 2 are specialized companies that operate in
Karamay as subunits of KOC. In addition, expatriate consultants would assist
in the various implementation activities, including the design, monitoring and
interpretation of the heavy oil pilot projects.
64.       KOC and its specialized companies are staffed by dedicated and
competent staff who have the requisite experience and capabilities to carry
out effectively their respective project tasks. However, operational effi-
ciency has been impeded by outdated equipment and technology. Excessive rig
time has to be spent on maintenance and moving from one location to another.
Furthermore, supporting services such as coring, testing and cementing are not
up to current petroleum industry standards. Provision has therefore been made
in the proposed project to provide specialized drilling material and equipment
and transport support to KOC; this should considerably improve the operating
efficiency of KOC's exploration activities.



20 -
Ecology
65.        The Karamay oilfield is located in a remote and hilly area which is
very sparsely populated by some nomadic tribes. Petroleum exploration and
production activities have been carried out thrcughout the last thirty years
with no adverse effect on the environment. The exploration component under
this project would follow past practices. It is difficult to assess the
amount and toxicity of gases arising from applying in-situ combustion in the
heavy oil pilot.  However this element wil'L be properly monitored during the
pilot operation. Experience from the heavy oil pilot operations will be
incorporated in the eventual fieldwidle appLicatiorns.
Project Cost and Financing
66.        Total project cost, including taxes and import duties (15%), is
estimated at $753.5 million equivalenit, of which, $273.3 million or 36%
represents the foreign exchange component. The basic cost estimate is derived
from past costs in the Karamay area and from budget quotations and prices of
material and equipment imported in early-1984. The cost of service contracts
for highly specialized equipment is :included in equipment costs. For both
local and foreign costs, a physical contingency of 10% was applied; in
addition, price contingencies have been applied tc base cost plus physical
contingencies and assumed at 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% for 1986 and
1987. No contingencies have been adcled for seismic survey costs since a fixed
price contract for this work is already in effect.
67.        The Bank loan of $100.3 million, including a front-end fee of about
$0.3 million, represents 37% of the foreign exchange component and 13% of the
total project cost. The Bank loan would finance foreign seismic crews, modern
oilfield equipment, computer centers at Urumqi and Karamay, pilot projects for
heavy oil and technical assistance. The remainder of the foreign exchange
component ($173 million) represents the cost of seismic equipment, tubulars
and other materials. For some of these items, suppliers' credits might be
available, but this category of equipment and materials is generally secured
at a national level for all state oil companies. Therefore it is difficult to
identify cofinancing for a specific project: separately. In the event the
Government cannot or chooses not to secure suppliers' credits, it will finance
these items out of its own resources., The Government and KOC would meet all
local costs, equivalent to $480.2 million. The Government would onlend $96.2
million of loan proceeds to KOC on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan. While the Government would bear the foreign exchange risk, KOC would be
required to pay a substantial premium (41%) for securing a foreign exchange
loan, in line with the Government's internal settlement rate system.
Conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and KOC,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (draft
Loan Agreement Section 6.01). In addition to the Loan Agreement with the
Government, it is proposed to enter into a separate Project Agreement with
KOC.



- 21 -
Procurement
68.       A table on the proposed procurement arrangements is set out in Annex
V. Drilling and construction work would be carried out by force account
(KOC's own forces); this practice has been shown to be cost effective because
KOC's personnel are experienced and competent to carry out the work and
because salaries in China are extremely low compared with international
levels.  Goods financed by the Bank loan would be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines,
except in cases where limited international bidding (LIB) and direct purchase
are more appropriate. Under ICB, local manufacturers would be permitted to
participate where appropriate and be eligible for a margin of preference of
15% or the prevailing custom duties, whichever is lower, in the evaluation of
bids. For seismic survey and associated computer facilities, LIB procedures
were followed by inviting proposals from a large field of reputable and expe-
rienced firms who had either prior experience or some exposure to the working
conditions in China. In view of the long mobilization time required for
seismic crews and the long lead time required for the approval of export
licenses for computers, advance contracting for seismic surveys ($18.4 mil-
lion) and seismic processing computer ($7.7 million) has been arranged and
retroactive financing under the loan would be permitted for up to $3.0 million
(3% of the Bank loan) for expenditures incurred between the date of appraisal
and the date of loan signing. Total disbursement under LIB is estimated at
about $35 million (35% of the Bank loan). In addition, spare parts, equipment
and instrumentation costing less than $150,000 equivalent may be procured
through direct purchase up to an aggregate of $3.5 million (3.5% of the Bank
loan). All bid packages having an estimated value of $500,000 or more would
be subject to prior review by the Bank. Consultants/specialists will be
selected pursuant to the guidelines for the use of consultants by the Bank's
borrowers. In light of the difficulty faced in the processing of procurement
documents for the first two Bank-financed petroleum projects, there is the
need to improve interagency coordination for efficient procurement. Toward
this end, a detailed procurement schedule would be prepared and sent to the
Bank by the end of May 1984. This schedule and the consequent steps for
initiating project implementation would be reviewed between the Bank and the
representatives of concerned agencies (MOPI, KOC and CNTIC) by the end of June
1984.
Disbursements
69.       Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of imported equipment and materials and consultants'
services; 100% of the ex-factory cost of equipment and materials supplied from
local sources under ICB; and 100% of the cost of overseas training.
Financial Aspects, Accounts and Audit
70.       As a state-owned enterprise, KOC is bound by the financial regula-
tions established by the Government. While the company enjoys considerable
operational autonomy, it is far more constrained in financial autonomy. KOC's
finances have been satisfactory thus far and are expected to remain so in the
future. Its revenues are derived primarily from the sale of crude to the



- 22 -
refineries. Until recently, all crude from the Karamay oilfield was priced at
Y 115/ton. MOPI has recently proposed an increase in the price of crude to
Y 175/ton throughout China.  The proposed price increase is especially
significant for ensuring the financial viability of oilfields with rising
costs. However, as long as KOC is in a positive net income position, the
major impact of the price increase would be an increase in KOC's fiscal
contributions to the Government. The proposed price increase is pending a
decision of the State Council.  As a pragmatic interim measure, a two-tier
pricing system was instittLted in 1981 whereby above-quota production is sold
at the international price! level (Y 400/ton).
71.       As an oilfield that has been producing for some thirty years,
Karamay's productivity per well has entered the declining phase and increased
production is expected to be achieved only at increased cost. In order to
allow KOC to continue to cover costs by internally generated funds, MOPI has
set the production quota at 4 million tons p.a., which is slightly below the
production projected by KOC over th,e period 1983-85. Due to the two-tier
pricing system mentioned above, the average price to be received by KOC is
estimated to increase from Y 129/ton in 1983 tc Y 147/ton in 1985 and revenues
from the anticipated above quota production would more than offset the
increase in production cost. KOC's net income is forecast to increase
steadily over the medium term.
72,       Under the existing system in China, cost is the major financial
factor over which KOC has discretionary control, and it relies heavily on the
budget for control purposes. An assurance was obtained from KOC that an
evaluation of its costing would be undertaken with the assistance of consul-
tants and the study would be completed by March 31, 1986 (draft Project
Agree.ment, Section 2.11). The proposed study is directed at the optimization
of operational efficiency and management decision-making through the upgrading
of cost information. In addition, KCOC agreed to extend the horizon of finan-
cial planning to no less than five years and furnish the Bank with financial
statements based on a five-year rol:Ling p:Lan; KOC would annually review with
the Bank its current and future finances, focusing in particular on the trend
of production costs, budget variances analysis, and its investment and related
financing arrangements (draft Project Agresement, Section 4.03).
73.       Until recently, financial/accounting practices in China did not
provide for external auditing whose scope and depth were in conformity with
internationally accepted auditing standards. In June 1983 an independent
aud:it bureau was set up and an Auditor-General appointed.  The Audit Bureau is
in the process of formulating auditing regulations as well as recruiting/
tra:ining auditing staff. For these purposes, technical assistance has been
provided by the Bank and several other organizations, including the UN.  In
the context of this project, KOC agreed to maintain separate accounts for the
project; in addition, the project accounts and KOC's accounts would be
independently audited and the audited financial statements sent to the Bank
within six months after the end of each fiscal year (draft Project Agreement,
Section 4.02).



- 23 -
Project Risks and Justification
74.       The project carries risks inherent in exploration projects.  The
geological risk relates to the size and quality of the reservoir. The project
covers three areas at different stages of exploration maturity and carries
different levels of geological risk. The proposed exploration program has
been designed to balance low risk/low reward activities with high risk/high
reward activities. This has been achieved by focusing a large proportion of
exploration activities on the short-term objective of proving additional
reserves from conventional prospects, while diverting some resources to
evaluate less explored areas and deeper realms. Furthermore, in order to
attenuate the geological risk, a stratigraphic and structural study will be
carried out to determine the composition and distribution of reservoir bodies,
a high resolution seismic survey will lead to better mapping of the deeper
horizons, and a continuous review will ensure that exploratory drilling is
confined to areas with high geological ranking. The technical risk is that
the project may not be implemented efficiently. Such a risk, however, is low
because KOC has a long history of drilling in the Junggar Basin; it has
certain limitations in terms of equipment and technology but these would be
partially offset by the equipment and technical assistance proposed to be
financed under the project. The economic risk is that even if hydrocarbons
are found, the recoverable quantity would be inadequate to provide an
acceptable return on the investment for exploration and development. Such a
risk, however, is considered low.
75.       As with other petroleum exploration projects, the possibility of a
wide range of outcomes renders it impossible to quantify with any precision
the potential benefits of the proposed exploration program. Instead, the
cost-benefit analysis has focused on the minimum size of discovery that is
required to yield an acceptable economic rate of return on the investment for
exploration and development. On the basis of the present development cost at
Karamay, it has been estimated that the discovery of fields resulting in an
incremental annual production of 1.5 million tons would be adequate to provide
a 15% rate of return to the proposed exploration program. Based on the
present expectation, there is a high probability that the discovery under the
proposed exploration program would exceed the minimum quantity required to
yield an acceptable economic rate of return. Insofar as the heavy oil
recovery is concerned, it is not possible to determine at this stage the
optimum method and the precise economics of thermal recovery of the specific
reservoir, notwithstanding the proven technique of thermal recovery. In order
to minimize the above uncertainty, the pilots as provided under the project
are to be located in representative areas of the reservoirs and their opera-
tions would be closely monitored and interpreted with the assistance of
consultants. The proposed pilots would not only provide for a better under-
standing of the reservoir and indicate an optimum method of thermal recovery
technique, but they are also expected to pay for themselves by the heavy oil
thus recovered. Furthermore, should the thermal recovery be subsequently
applied on a large scale, and working on a conservative assumption that all
the heavy oil is burnt directly as a low grade residual fuel, the thermal
recovery of heavy oil is still expected to yield a satisfactory return. There
is, in addition, the possibility of extracting high grade lubricating oil from
the recovered crude. In the final analysis, the proposed project is justified



- 24 -
not so much because the risks are low but because the potential benefits are
high. In addition to the quantifiable benefits, the project would facilitate
the transfer of technology and institutional development through the provision
of technical assistance, training and import of modern equipment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Karamay Oil-Gas
Exploration and Development Corporation (KOC), and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
77.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are that China's State Council
shall have approved the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement, and that a
satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement shall have been signed between the
Government and KOC (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 4, 1984
Washington, DC



- 25 -                                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) 7a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECEtT  /b           LOOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970    ESTIMATE-           ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOOSAND SQ. DI)
TOTAL                                9561.0       9561.0       9561.0
AGRICULTURAL                         3176.3       3213.0       3182.9
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      40.0/c       90.0        300.0               276.7                      1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        340.0        427.0        618.0               398.4                       792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS*
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  683400.0    838900.0    991300.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          18.4/d         .          20.6                21.5                        32.9
POPU1LATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               1197.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                1434.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2040
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          71.5         87.7        102.5               161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              215.2        261.1       307.8                363.1                     1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            38.9         37.7        32.2                 36.6                        39.4
15-64 YRS                            56.3         57.2         62.4                59.2                       57.2
65 AND ABOVE                          4.8          5.1          5.4                 4.2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.7          2.1          1.5                 1.9                         2.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..          ..                  4.0                         3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           38.9/e       34.1         20.9                29.3                        31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           23.77e        9.8          7.8                10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2. 87i       2.6          1.4                 2.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..           ..
USERS (B OF MARRIED WOMEN)             .,           ..        74.0/f               48.1                       46.6
FOOD AlD NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                            ..        100.0       117.0                111.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)         78.8/e       88.7       107.0                 98.1                       114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             49.47/       53.0        65.0                 56.7                       57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..         12.7        15.0                 13.9                       14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE*           26.1/e       10.7          7.2                12.2                         7.6
HEAALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)*         40.5/g       57.9         67.2                59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)*        165.0/e       90.0         71.0                96.6                       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..           ..                32.9                        37.1
URBAN                                  ..           ..          ..                 70.8                        54.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                22.2                        26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..           ..                18.1                        41.4
URBAM                                  ..           ..           ..                72.7                       47.5
RURAL                                  ..           .4. ..                          4.7                        33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             8330.0/h    3800.0/h    1920.0/h              3506.0                     7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              4020.0       2840.0       1890.0              4797.9                     2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1040.0        760.0       490.0               1100.6                      1047.2
URBAN                               210.0           ..       160.0                298.4                      651.1
RURAL                             10140.0           ..      1010.0               5941.6                     2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..           ..                  ..                        27.0
HOUSING
AVEPAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..          5.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..         4.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..          5.5
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _     _ _ _ _   _ _    _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _      _   _ _   _ - -_ -_ _   _ _ -_ -_ -_ - -_-_ _ -_ - -_ _ -_ _ -_ -_ -_ _ -_ _ -_ -_ -_ _ __ -_ _ -_ _ - _ -



- 26 -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA,  PEOPLE'S REP  OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTlMATE) /b
'b  RECENT  ,b           LOW INCOME               MIDDLE 'tNCCME
1 9 60'1-b   1970'   ESTIMATES           ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATIOR**
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     109.0        110.t        117.0                 96.1                       101.2
MALE                        ..           ..        126.0                107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                      *            *         l06.0                 82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      21.0         23.0         34.0                 30.2                        44.9
MALE                        .            ..         40.0                 37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                      .      .      .         27.0                 22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)               ..           ..          2.2                  2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 ..           ..         26.0                 34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                               ..           ..         17.0                 18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 43.0/d          ..        69.0/i               53.5                        72.9
CONSUMtTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               ..            ..           ..                 1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              .      .        .      150.6                 96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..           ..         15.8                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUTLATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                   .             ,                             16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..           ..                  3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE***
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           319589.O0/  377495.0    463348.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      38.3         38.0         37.2                 33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   .             -         (j8.9                69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      .             -         268.7                15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 46.8/j       45,0         46.7                 42.5                        38.6
MALE                                  55.97)       54.5         57.0                 54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                                37.07       35.0         35.9                 29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9/         1.0          0.8                  1.0                         1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUtTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..         12.5/k               16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         39.37i,              43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20t OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..            ..         6. 7k                6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..         18.47-k              17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                133.9                       194,5
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..               111.6                        155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                  ..                        178.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..            .         .        .                         164.8
SSTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                 43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   .51.7                                                                    41,1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABEL
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries amoNg the
indicators depends on availability of data and is noe uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimete" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Interpolated 1957-62 data; /d 1964; /e 1955-65 average; /f Percentage of women of reproductive age; /a 1955-64
average; /h Senior doctor of ¶western medicine; /i 1982; 71 1957; /k Distribution of people ranked by households per
capita income.
* All population and vital statistics are Bank eEitimates which differ from Chinese official statistics.
** Formal education only; non-formal enrollment is substantial.
*    Definition and coverage differ from  those of Chinese off:Lcial statistics.



- 27 -                                                                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS IF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Naes:-  Ab1ottgh the 4sca ac  drass fromsare  generally jadgd  he sass aothsoritatae  aod reliable, it sh,oald also  be acted clot ahoy oaf  -o  be t-t-aicoa.lly
comparable berae   of thelak ofuodaded,dettoitica   -od rocet  s-e  by difll:etoao itie   Ia raletlog the data.  The data ore, nntels,osflt
desrb odr  of               r maatda, tad irate  ttesdI, aediarot          --eoaoin m-Jor,dIffeeaca    -aeaacaee.
Theteeeaegoust  (lftbha.ecoa-ry gropott~hgbtaoJaeoay                                       (2) Iacaatty grap~ithao-ehacbhigh.raoeege  ioea   Mscbaoz ..c.ootry g-pIfs~be
asbjscoautry   escae  fa  "High tacoma" Ol  iopotise'  rap abet  0Mitddla  booms North   etrio ead Mifddla tEal  is choosy hacace  of st-ogeeucl-calsae-I
effloitie)    1e the refeenc   atone data she,vrae  at-oaals                       ightad arithmetic asco  for each ladloct.  aM  aho-  ely abet moJotily ofaeroote t                      o ar
groP has daafetaldcto. tresecrarg   of ca rcia  asoo-g the lad icanots depeads 00 sho acaiahbility of data aed Is not o_if._, catonsanb
eseroi=     nrlne    aegso   a   blao   aaair                           hs   evodga  are oly osefal to tompoelg  the valu  of one lodlatoIr acI tiIeasg -                     a the  te  sod
ARfA (thoomeed a.s.Ppuuio arhscan- Poatiodiedbanhrfpocig
.1- Total sortact area coprlsiag lobe area sad Ilaaed eaters; i"l  Iy'll'                                          qatts   fo u%~    med11ira l shol  cc oby vaelf leo.~%i
1970 ead i198  data.                                                                                  Por..   iot pot Nuring Parsoc                    I uoo rdivided by cober of eacra
Egiutss     taimats of ariotoa   ao   asd temporarily or per--mey                                 mal  abd feaule grad-at-....a ..isou   torte.s,. prvlnel  osa  be
for crop, pastues, socet abd kiltreb  garden  or to  lie  fellos; 1960,                            ..ralgut  ois
1970 nd 19   date.                                                                                    PReainrt opcttd - tesi,  rbao, abed tota   - Population  (stal.,
orlbn, aeTd rural)idioidod by their respective comber It hopiel beds
GNP P51 CAPITAfp   - lirpa.r:rpitoet  lase   a  current maskn prices,                                        baolhl  Inpbic-ad private, geera  and aperilaedhgtc   a
osituisted by sa eco        rIotsahe   a  ftd lok uslas (19ff-9  bai);chsbililteiotoroers                                               HIopias Ir -esbllalmIE                           r.aetl   tffed
1960, 1970, ead 1981 date,                                                                                 by at least. use p.hysirta.  tE-blitheavisP, prodin   priarip,tly  custo dial
care are notI included,  total bopinoIs, h--ve, incue   health" ebe
IEugRGY ThfSUDfPT'rioPsi CfPITA - cAvoal appere-   -oossptio  of1  I    .eerio                               meIdicalr-eatrs vonI petmoel  staffed by a phyeiriau  (hot by      ble
abe gethera1 electricity) to kilograma of c. eal  qu-les per capita;                                       pto-idt    uloiad  r        Ig    f ebecalfaiiee.  Fur saIsialprpIo..
1960, 19ff, aed 19ff dens.                                                                                orlo h, bpicaW cod   f0,prioripol/ganeraI hospitols, cad rural
hopItl,Iua   rrua    oPitals avd medical end  ct-rty teeers
POPULATIfN AND) VTILb  STATItTICS                                                                            Speitalieed hospialal  are i-cloded calf otdr.  ..t.I.
Tetal Peisalatise, Mid-Yea  (thoeaoed) - be of July 1; 1f60, 1970, abe 1981                              Addslssiene  par banpital fed - futa1 vomber of uaes          Isot dischargs.
dat,                                                                                                    frot   hsp ial-  dliofd hy the aucher of beds.
differs-t dIfstoao   te  area  spafetoperebilitip  of dinesHOUSING
mtgoeirtee   1961, 19ff, cad (ff1 dasa.                                                        b-Rrge Siso of  ouehobld 1 peosoc  car hea, ud     ttl  ob2rda.b  total
Poitics  -rjacti.se                                                                                    - A bocurhold caclts of a group of ' ibivdul    v  eure LIviu   q-tornr
,pbotesleeeit fear 2000 - C-rresi populolu .   .. prjelts L.. ore loao    as98f0                       aod thiny  suit mel.A boarder or lodge  may or muy out be Included io
toa-   pplatiotb   g   besot    rroilc atbIL                     feeciy                              the hoaseocid fornatniclpurposes.
eae.    ejecita    aaaas a.otlt  ra es cpriae o,f thtree                                      Averge oumber2 of  ...on 2 Par room  - titi1, urlot, osd rua verage .oser
iro-euasaeg lfe  e.epasact  as tfirthlIcro                 is th  -vurp's per                         of persuos Per rom   c  l  uran    d rural urcepiedcvttos
c.Pit. ircome l-el, sd fomal  lIfe  sapectay  -iblileing an 77.5                                      deel s  repcivl.                Isllitg   ear.. lade  oope.a...sruino   .vA
peat.. gThe perasatets for fertilIty rat  also have three levels                                      auopie  pos-
_salgdeoliva to, f-eililfoc.ordig  to Irass level and Pas rfsily                                  becestn  Elec~iritn    (percet of dea  ue)-cra,aha,ae  aa 
plusniag  parfo-amuare.F.  ... techcocyi  n .s ..agoed aes If thretins                                C       tvonloa  deelliag.i at    lcrrt    y   .  iiv ttg q sr   spr sg
romhinatiuss of mortality avd fertility trsods for p-ojecluo  purpes-.                                of tvtlc   -barha, abe eura1 domliItgs respersi-sly.
St.tacto ry pprlati.    - Ia  sttinrypouato   there ie so gr-th
siaca the hitch roer  Is aou1 to the Aeon I  rot, andfalto  the ogeEDUCATION
strettarsea-alssr,e...o-t.  This it acieved only after fe rt'itIy races                            .djustoid lt Rimvitaic
drrilascvlereylscoeot  leveIf  citvbetr-ptodorvioaItate,sle                                 fiourynchool -s-utul , naecfom tlroua -vco                       -1,ocrudfstIa. 
aechgeneacl   cfrome  rapane   Itself acorntly.  The mt-tto..r                                 erleatocioasrrh rry                       y   -evlaaervugao
pepclclssleeaseetleata  on the b...s of ihe projocad 'loratr-                                           pr,ayI,        i-g   Ppoplatiota; v-ra1y  -larlde   o hildrr  aged h-li
Isslo   of le  pooistis Ict Deyer200,ud therao  denIes af                                       fear  bu tdjusced for diffeea I           gh. of prisaryoedu-coto; for
fertility eats to raplare..e.c  lee.-ousisiloloru    dctc  erlue   a   nte    l   eco
Yastutlocar y populatios is rearbe.d - The year abet statonary                                          Mireoe Zbllpupis ore lel         raor   the offcIl. cloi  ge
p,paloolgo   else sitl he reached,                                                                     S-oco y erlot _-2toal  sal  cad fesot   - C-pepued ce oh-vo; ercrdary
,ParIotion  Devaicy                                                                                          oduruic  reocire  cc Ibust for yasoapprove d prisarylorotou
Par sq. ha. - rid-year populutios pet tquor  kilomersr (II h--ste) of                                      provdes g ..ru 1, ouctiu...l , or trarhor c-alag iotrr-c ivs  far
ctat1 ara    90   90   e   00dt.PIPiltso ly of 12 to  t:                                                                             17 facts of c,i; rorropsrodsns anat  arc
Perr a9. h.arcla             oe- Computad as above sorag,          c          Itualbo                      groerly occlded.
caf  1968, 197..e  1990 data.                                                                    focatio.o.  raolrt (percent of s....beary) - l'cioclinti                 tu..uaI
porlani   doe Seruntur   orcs)-Childtet (0-lb  pact), -oeklog-age (it-                                  tectudt trohnoral,I3-tuatil, Ie other pro grace ohioh operat  i.depod-
byas,aereti red (hI yeas sod ItaI us perreatugas of aid-year                                     Ilty or 00 deperoe    It of  rcdary  osicur1 Ices.
pplio;1960, 1970, abe 1991 data.                                                               Pepil-t-earo   aI hrmer          ,         _d rodory- toa      -iden-  Iror1led ic
opotaItio  irnolh Rtlos  rs.t..    1- ccc  - Atvoa1 gr-tch rae If total aid-                               yr1- aescodr   lol  diaided by .us. r o..  f tech... it~ thc cur-
year poplone  fa. r  9fbi-hO,  61980-, end 1970-81.                                                     reP.adlnglela
Popalaica Iroth tte (paceen)- orbe  - Aevoul gronh tuaIf urbao                                 Adult literaY tao p ero-on) - Literate  odr1ts (able no rod cod acme) as
popo"istos   fur iRl-bO 'Pe h0-'71  os   0           .aperceotage of total adult poulsio  gd 11 years  -od over.
Crued sirLh gate. (par th ...Id) - Arvol live lIttle portbilcusa of eid-
fastr pepulution; 1980, 1970, ud 1981 dana.                                                          CONSlfP'IONl
CrdDe loah gait (per thoomuod) -Artocu  deaths per cloutuod of mid-year                                feasoavor Cart lprr tlhusood popoluttot)-Poegr   s   cpramtr
lpolpo~leti; 1960, 1970, a.d  1901 dat,rrseig   csta   Ih  posoa  socludroabler                                                                                               ers..b
Or.a.tpodc R Itoo.M tr-goroage uteebr of d-aghtcrss-ma                        b`1-oa  iv                  all itry ortuoles.
hercalrpoutv   perIod if she ecpstleoces prrat-  ugs-sperifloE:,  ..ev   trlors (ftc cboosod porolutlv) - uII Iyyeo of -ereln-  for radio
feroillip  -ease; usualIly fiv-year  -oa-gee andiog In 1900, 1970, aod                                  broad-aso  to gSIrrl ` otic Pe  r thocscd uf Pepus ..... MIudI suc
I981.                                                                                                   liceouedce-eoir   iIs  uu       -liad is yrur-  WIrorIuorctoofci
Family Plasoin   - Ac.     tos  Mact  thoueandsl - Aneul tmrof acnvp-ceatet    s  fes  data  a  caao   ra                                                     yu -o  ho roapurobla  aince cost
of bltth-ocrideie  obe   u pcso  vioo                           folyPluing                               ouire   abolished licutg
PrtIgras.                                                                                             Theetecs ...re,th ...us-o  ypoplcticvl-TV ree.i--r for br-ad--e to
Psmilyflooing-  eers lproeutofsa.rrtadso ro           Parre-t.eg  Ifu....d                         gaeopo br ervoevpylno;,rueulrtef'roor
asset  r rbld-hemrv0  od  111-0   r-ar    h.d us ihrth-voLr-I d-ol-eto                              --toc  -ronud  lvfsr  at yc- looc too of  feasaoiefot
allsetledoser  vuov   ageruot-N.-                                                                       '         " Oeurrrclto(ortt --tud  puy eiov-)lu-aSh-        arI ag
FOOI A00 OfTRITfLON                                                                                             rualto  "'dully gasaI             ltts   ocos"e-   ruo"Ofot-d uupcrlr Ill
lod.. of Food Prodnotlon par louIsa 11969-7l'100( - 1de- of po  -p-n                                      fub1-rot-   ouu--d poto--ib  to---d,1uoca  vn.dtIstv ldru
--tua       ' prtdrion of slI food ousobei.io..   ProdctIo   alda  see  asd                             to he "daily" if it opprorsu   isa C- our. uses a ottk.
feed aed is so raleodat yeee haste,loee Iioiss--  ptlr   good  (e.g.                                  Corse.  Aenul Attndace. per Capito per   . four- .ased 00 the vo-sho  of
cogar-.t. lesteed of  huoi  tieh are sdheaecsesvtl e(                                                    ickets  sold.durlg otht yr-, i-tlndi In    die ott  driv-ut  ~ tt.... ..d
hosd onstiau  avIerag Iptdb.u.r prIce sights; 1901-ft. 1970, end 1901
dte,                                                                                               reaOt yFORCE
Pet colas  urpifof naortes(pa rtor  f roqiros...a -. Computed from,                           oallbor Forte  Ictoc-uds  - Econ-olrelyar-to                    ieecs, lalding -u-obe
e     Pe " qiola  of  se  foo  sopp Iiaeve -lable is  --utr  pee rspite  per                     Oc11trosab  ousplcyed bct racludiug h.usloe s.tna  et ..o.ro
dap.Ad-albahl  supplies comrise dom.besi  predoctio, Imports less                                       pouoiva ofal  age.DNficlti-t  v, variou   to ls  reot
_mport, sa -'ag-m is  -nk;.iNot supplies seclude saima  feed, seeds,cmaue f,                                                 1970 IId 198  data.
1oslta  es  is  udipasso,ac           .osst  distibatioo.                                        p u  (otrovo)            . feal  labor forc- u  pa  Iuct   f tota  labur forc..
Reqei_ests sate saiate   hp ego hAted os phypilslgicol seed  for tooml                                  duirutu-  (ecn)-  abor forts  ic farelg, foratr,y, luortiIg  ud
ectiotty.sad health ....sidettsg eataetl aeao                       body seighes,                          flehiog as prreor-ag   of total (clot forte; 1960, 1970 aed 19f1 data.
eg  abese  distrebotcos of  IortIIen   aeZd allo-ioE 10 perceun  foe aucte                               odoe-te  (porceoct)-  aho  frce..  to ..tvtg, ruostro...a e- su-f--toi`g
et             I-m,ul  lve; 1961-65, 1970 sa   90   aa                     d                                    eecd   oiy    Iaeeae  as  at pa Irtg            f totalabr forc; 1960,
per ccrise surely of ptonotn (grome per duy) - Pro ten  castest of Per caPita                                19 71 aud 191daa
set sapply affood pot day.  Not su.pply of food Is deftard ac abuv-                                   Pattkipictlcn  late(orn) -                  .tru, ol, ad feca.. 1- P-rIti~poctov as
teqairese..   far all ocmel   estahihed by lSDA pr-ide for sistso                                       arioty rusts  " ascoputed us toro1, tult, co  steals  labor forraus.
al Iss   f hO grams of susgI P,ecaia per dap and 20 grams of ueisal end                                             -Iretugn   f  ctl,mue d fec.airP.I1 oplai.o  vs oil udes rept poctory;
pulse prt In      f s,ich  10 gracs  hlc1d he..- s        Ptul prtel.  These                            1900, 1970, cod 1981 daia.  These arsbhId c   Iuyttlotfa.to. totes
atasdstds ste IIeer cha  ic-  at 7t gras. of tonal erceris asd 23 grass                                 r`-Iia          e-t    tru "or  of tepopulatiuc, ard bog ties treed.A
If -,tm.I prteta as at ovrage for the uorld,proposed by FPM  ta the                                     fee esiae         re frye oetls.. aI ares.
Third fetid Pob  gurry; 1961-h5, 1970 und 199  dat.                                                   IruEvosoi  Apoeoo.y Rutio  - fRcto of ypula-ton  uadrr 15  nod 65 aud ovr tu
Par eaPit. erote       uepfo   oia   b    ae  - Peoteio  supply of food                                    Ml oa  lbrfre.
derIved fro   sisl  abeposa  II groa  par duy; 1981-65, 1970 uod 1977
date.                                                                                               IDittI lISThIstfIIft
Child (seem  1-h)itah gate (per nbh.uod) - dusua  deaths pe  tlheauad Iv                                fsrcrvcsga of PrIvate Inov  (loch it taco aod baud) - pretru I  by rlheen  I
eg   ra  1fyas  to rhldreo  itthie age grou.p; for scat developiog                                      prcea  riobes   21 pero.enI, poarest 20 pnttros , sod poues  it rorooor of
roc-trise  datu dertoed from  tife  nole;19019 70 god 1981 data,                                        h.cah'I'd..
HEAL.TH                                                                                                 POVERTY TOGElT 0100ff
~TTl  gatsya   ii   yas  - hoerugs nsh-  of tours of life .. raiolg i                                        fllg        sa testes are veyopules  mesre f yoor-y 1-rol,  abe
at birth; 19ff, 197t aed 1981 duna.                                                                     should be luterpr- fed inthco-tder.beh    ctIn
J. f..t eartality tte (pec sbh-mud) - Aetuci de-ft  of infuotuobeern 000tsisured AhauloEteoeo I                                          ISou  Ic (2SOpa  cala)I- urbun ad rural-
pear of age pee thooeosd  Ire  hirebs ; 19b0, 1970 end 1991 d te.                                        .ltoufI -oveey locust leo-l i Athenin- I lya hhlO  orh a                      iutleu
snes  fht  facet (pa ratt of  epltol-tocel , ocb-o  a-d rura  -                                       -itritonaly udtqoa f  diet pica emant al ov- food rtqoireseats  IsoIt'
Comber of people (tta,   ha, usd ros mn  rem..nobla otets  to safe                                      uffordeble.
sanr suPply lincludee treaerd sur are eaters It u--frd ho                                           Issiaured ReItaiv   Pvry   rt  hoe   101prcpltu  - orbn oud ourul1
oscecamt=-ed saner such us tht-  f-s  peutected hrtls  sro                       o                      total r1eis-o  puosrE'y  oo   lve  i  o-tlord of aroug   par  ,api,
siostryset1e)  -e paecetg         I f  hleiroe..p..tti-  popoertons       I                           pr .. Iv  0pnca  iorose of chetu ry    Irea  1-re  itdrtv          ro  the coral
urbasarasapebio  fontciu It or..tabepas  Iueted so-sc   sloe Oil2D  o..e.s                              leve  mitt adjutIt for higher oet. of lioig iu orbau areas.
feom  a lom       sa.eradrda  beIng sfthia  r--vsslo  ccsIo  hat                                      -tetlua      Potu11latovOsosabolt  Povry  oue  oe I 'Pr..o.). -u....
bes.Isma   aess  eamovl. it auese  -0K     ispy that the h.saf   r                               t   uu  -Prsno p-ultia   ars  u-d rura) st v  "obsuluts
meber  of the hoomebed do aco hate to speod a diaptpeoporoc tm   par  of                                pout"
the day is fecotah   the family' -vt-ertobed.
Acces  be Eorrts Dipsl(ptreo a.r.                oa.o   csIflP"thos,'aed
..taI -NIbahe  If paslo(tta, ura,  b  rural) served byasr
dlpalePIrecae    f their respective popesitiu...s. Osoeto disros-l
asp  -Iecsd   tha clleccin and dis,emal, sith or aich-u  tenm             In f                                                                  icocomtc1 cud Social.Ito DsofahuI
hssoseree -i         eatemaarby  at       y-b bo sum   or she use of pit                                                                  _vosic  daytta ued PrcJ.ttun Ieparrceat
privie   mo iilar tontleos.My 1903



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population:  1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (Z) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77    1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                        2.2~   3.4          9.0    8.6    3.9    6.6   11.0
Light industry                     8.3       1.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1    5.7
Heavy industry                    11.6       9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7       9.9
Net Material Product (NMP)           5.2       4.8      12.4    7.0    6.1    4.8    7.4
1957     1970    1977    1978    1979    1980         1981   1982
Prices
Retail price index (1970=100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4  116.6
NMP deflator         (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.1   100.5    104.5   108.4   110.5  110.9
Exchange rate        (Y/US$)        2.46     2.46     1.86     1.68      1.55     1.50     1.71    1.89
Amount                                                         Average Annual Growth
1982                   Shares of GDP (M)                     (M) at Constant Prices
National Accounts              T$ billion)    1957    1979       1982    1965    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-90
/a        /a
GDP                            260.4        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8            5.8       6.0       6,5
Agriculture                   96.1           ..    32.5    36.9    32.4    27.9    1.6           3.2       5.8        3.2
Industry                     105.4           ..    43.5    40.5    44.4    48.1   12.1           8.9        7.4       8.2
Other                         58.9           ..    24.0    22.6    23.2    24.0    3.5           4.3        1.2       7.1
Consumption                    181.6         76.4    68.4    69.7    73.8    76.7    2.7            5.4       5.7       7.4
Investment                      73.2         23.2    32.5    28.].    27.5    25.0    9.8           6.8       2.3       4.8
Exports GNFS                    24.9          3.7/b   6.0       9.6      8.7      8.1     1.6/b    8.0/b   14.1         3.2
Imports GNFS                    20.0          3.5/b   6.8       7.7    10.0       9.8    2.37b    9.4i/b    2.7         7.9
National savings                78.9         23.6/c  31.9    30.3    26.4    23.0          ..
As X of GDP
Public Finance                                    1957           19793          1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign             28.7           27.4          22.6
borrowing)
Current expenditures                            16.1           17.7          14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                     +12.6          +9.7           +8.0
Capital expenditures                            11.9           15.1           8.8
Foreign borrowing /d                             0.7            0.9            1.6
Other Indicators                                1957-79   1979-82    1982-135   1985-90
GDP growth rate t%)                             5.4        6.0        5.7         7.0
GDP per capita growth rate (%)                  3.5        4.6        4.4         5.8
Energy consumption growth rate (x)              8.3          ..
ICOR                                            5.4          ..        ..         3.8
Marginal savings rate                           0.42         ,.         ..        0.16
Import elasticity                               0.95      0.45         1.9        1.3
/a  NMP basis.
7i  Goods only.
Tc  GDS.
/d  Gross.



- 29 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                Annual Growth Rates (%)
(million US$ at                           (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                     current prices)                     Actual                           Projected
1982                    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports               22,476                  25.5   16.8   15.9    6.2    2.6    2.0    1.0    4.0
Energy                          5,353                    ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Other primary                   5,110                    ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Manufactures                    11,356                    ..     ..      ..      ..     ..
Other                             657                    ..      ..      ..     ..
X      Merchandise imports               17,830                  21.7   16.7   -8.6    3.0    7.6   15.0   10,0    9.0
Food                            4,003                    ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Petroleum                            0                    ..     ..      ..            0      0       0       0
Machinery and equipment         3,405                     ..     ..      ..     ..      ..
Other                          10,422                    ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Prices
Export price index (1978=100)         ..                 100.0  115.9  119.1  114.4  109.8  113.0  117.5  124.2
Import price index (1978-100)         ..                100.0  116.6  121.9  103.9  103.0  107.5  112.4  118.6
Terms of trade index (1978=100)    ..                    100.0   99.4   97.7  110.1  106.6  105.1  104.5  104.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                  Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                              (at constant prices)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         1.6       8.0      14.8       1.9      4.0
Energy                      19.5   25.1   22.9   23.8   10.9    0            ..        ..
Other primary               34.1   28.4   24.1   22.8   24.2   23.8          ..        ..
Manufactures                46.4   46.5   47.8   50.5   59.5   70.9          ..        ..
Other                        0       0      5.2    2.9    5.4    5.3         ..        ..
Imports                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         2.3       9.4      3.2      10.8      10.0
Food                          ..      ..   19.6   22.5   20.0   16.8         ..        ..       ..
Energy                       0       0      0       0      0       8.2       ..       0        O         0
Machinery and               25.2   27.5   24.2   19.1   26.7   25.1          ..        ..       ..
equipment
Other                         ..      ..   56.2   58.5   53.3   49.9
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With          Share of Trade With              Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (X)   Developing Countries (X)             Planned Economies (X) /a
Direction of Trade            1978             1981         1978            1981              1978             1981
Exports                     37.3            45.9         51.6             50.2              11.1              3.9
Imports                     73.3            76.8         17.5             18.7               9.2              4.5
/a  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



30 -                          ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, I5XTERNAI. CAPITAL AND DEBT
(tillions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                ProJected
Indicator                              1979    198(    1981      1982    1983    1985    1990
_________ _________ ________ ________   ________estimate
Bace ofPaents
Exports of goods and services            15,351  20,901  25,157   25,989  26,300  29,350  48,020
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.           13,658  18,492  22,027   22,476  22,150  24,420  39,330
Imports of goods and services            18,204  24,7'52  24,380   20,793  22,100  30,040  59,470
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.           16,212  22,049  21,047   17,830  19,010  26,230  52,760
Net transfers                               596      500     680       412     420      500      800
Current account balance                 -2,257  -3,351   1,457    5,608   4,620    -190 -10,650
Private direct investment                     -       157    265       359     400      500   1,500
MLT loans (net)                             800   1,130      416       426     400      800   6,000
Official                                  350     446      479       557     600
Private                                   450     6134     -63     -131    -200
Other capital                             2,054   2,555      365      -102    -400    -600   1,000
Change in net reserves ("-" -
increase)                               -597    -3391  -2,503   -6,291   -5,020   -510   2,150
International reserves                    7,274   7,6655  10,168   16,459   21,479
of which:  gold                        5,120   5,120   5,120    5,120    5,120
Reserves as months imports                  4.8      3.7    .5.0       9.4     11.6
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                          .-.
Concessional loans                         .       .
DAC                                       .
OPEC                                    "'       *'
IDA
Other                                    .       .
Nonconcessional loans                      ..
Official export credits                  ..
IBRD
Other multilateral                      ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed             ..   5,433   5,785    6,058
Official                                 ..
Private
Undisbursed debt                           ..       ..
Debt service
Total service payments            ..       ..
Interest                        ..       ..      ..
Payments as Z exports GNFS        ..       ..     5.0      7.8/a   10.0/a
Average interest rate on new
loans  Z)                         ..       ..      ..       .
Average maturity of new loans
(years)                           ..       ..      ..
/a  Including some early repayment of principal.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or
Credit                                                         ($ millions)
Number    Year   Borrower               Purpose         Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2021       1981   People's Republic   University
1167                of China              Development  100.0  100.0        133.6
1261      1982   People's Republic   Agricultural
of China             Development            60.0       42.5
2207      1982   People's Republic   Ports              124.0      -       124.0
of China
1297      1982   People's Republic   Ag. Ed. and           -    75.4        70.4
of China             Research
2226       1982   People's Republic   Industrial         40.6   30.0        67.7
1313                of China              Credit
2231       1983   People's Republic   Daqing            162.4      -       160.0
of China             Petroleum
2252      1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan          100.8      -       100.0
of China             Petroleum
2261       1983   People's Republic   Heilongjiang    35.3   45.0           80.0
1347                of China              Land Recla-
mation
1411      1983   People's Republic   Polytechnic/TV    -    85.0            85.0
of China             University
1412      1983   People's Republic   Technical             -    10.0         9.8
of China             Cooperation
1417      1984   People's Republic   Rubber                -   100.0       100.0
of China             Development
2382      1984   People's Republic   Lubuge Hydro-  145.4          -       145.4
/a      of China              electric
Total                                 708.5  505.4   1,118.4
t
Total now held by Bank and IDA               708.5  505.4
Total undisbursed                            704.4  414.0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1984)
None
/a Signed on March 12, 1984, but not yet effective.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



ANNEX III
- 32-                                 Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project                        One year
(b)  The project was prepared by             :    The Government and the Bank
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Bank                                   May 1983
(d) Date of first mission to
consider the project                       May 1983
(e)  Appraisal mission                            September 1983
(f)  Completion of negotiations                   April 1984
(g)  Planned loan effectiveness              :    July 1984
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
A.  Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The State Council shall have approved the Loan Agreement and the
Project Agreement (para. 77); and
(b) a satisfactory subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been signed
between the Government and KOC (paras. 67 and 77).
B. Other Conditions
(a) The Government would:
(i)   undertake a techno-economic study and pilot study for heavy oil
recovery at Liaohe and review the findings and consequent
action plan with the Bank., The design of pilot projects would
be completed by March 31, 1985 and the techno-economic study by
December 31, 1986 (para. 59); and
(ii)   undertake a gas utilization study and review the findings and
consequent action plan wit:h the Bank by December 31, 1985
(para. 62).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
- 33 -
(b) KOC would:
(i)   review with the Bank the overall exploration program under the
project (para. 58);
(ii)   review and agree with the Bank the seismic program at the
Wuerhe-Hungchiba and Hongshanzui-Chepaizi areas, review the
findings, and agree on consequent changes in the design of the
exploration program (para. 58);
(iii)   undertake a techno-economic study and pilot projects for heavy
oil recovery in the Karamay area; review the findings of the
study/pilots and agree with the Bank the consequent action
plan; the design of pilots would be completed by March 31,
1985, and techno-economic study by December 31, 1986
(para. 59);
(iv)   undertake a reservoir engineering study, and review the
findings and consequent action plan with the Bank by
December 31, 1985 (para. 60);
(v)   undertake a stratigraphic and structural study and review with
the Bank the findings and consequent action plan by
December 31, 1986 (para. 60);
(vi)   design training curricula and develop teaching materials and
methods for professional and skilled workers; consultants would
be appointed by March 31, 1985 (para. 61);
(vii)   undertake a study of KOC's costing by March 31, 1986
(para. 72);
(viii)   undertake financial planning for no less than five years on a
rolling basis and forward to the Bank annually for its review
the financial statements based on such plans (para. 72);
(ix)   annually review KOC's current and future finances with the Bank
(para. 72); and
(x)   submit to the Bank audited financial statements of the project
accounts and of KOC accounts within six months after the end of
each fiscal year (para. 73).



ANNEX IV
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
KARAMAY P'ETROLEUM PROJECT
Petroleum Product Prices
Domestic price
Ex-refinery prices   Retail Price    International/b           as % world
Y/ton    $/ton       Y/ton  $/ton       price $/ton            prices
Gasoline          590       298         800     404           282                  143
Kerosene           420       212        680      343          270                  127
Diesel             240       121        420      212          230                   92
Fuel oil /a        55         28        134 /c   68           160                   43
Natural gas |d       -                  2.9      1.5          4.0                   38
(Y/MCF)     ($/MCF)($/MCF)
/a Weighted average price, 30% of fuel oil consumed as feedstock does not include
special tax on petroleum fuel.
/b FOB Singapore prices on December 1.9, 1983.
/c Assumes transport cost averaged at: Y 30/ton.
/d  In terms of Btu fuel oil equivalent.



- 35 -                               ANNEX V
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
($ Million)
Project Element                            Procurement Method                   Total
ICB     LCB      Other    N.A.        cost
Civil works                               -        -        16.6      -          16.6
Seismic survey & upgrading
of processing facilities              -        -        66.0       -         66.0
-       -       (26.1)               (26.1)
Well drilling & completion                -        -       545.1       -        545.1
Drilling Equipment
Workover rigs                      11.1       -         2.7       -         13.8
(11.1)      -          -       -         (11.1)
Fracturing cementation &           24.9       -          -        -         24.9
logging units                  (24.9)      -          -        -        (24.9)
Specialized drilling tools,         4.6       -          -        -          4.6
coring & testing equip.          (4.6)      -          -        -         (4.6)
Transport equipment                 6.9       -         0.6       -          7.5
(6.9)     -           -       -          (6.9)
Laboratory equipment                1.7       -          -        -          1.7
(1.7)     -           _       _          (1.7)
Computer                            5.0       -         1.0       -          6.0
(5.0)     -           -       -          (5.0)
Heavy oil pilots including
equipment & materials               10.7       -         6.4       -         17.1
(10.7)      -          -        -        (10.7)
Technical assistance
Heavy oil feasibility study
& technical support               -        -         5.2       -          5.2
e       -        (4.0)      -          (4.0)
Other studies & training             -        -         8.5                  8.5
-       -        (5.0)      -         (5.0)
Total                        64.9        -      652.1       -        717.0
(64.9)      -      (35.1)      -       (100.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.






IBRD 17771R
840                  C                  H                                                                        I N  A 85°0  870  MAY 1984
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Area of Technical Assistance
H.eavy Oil Deposits
Conventional Crude Oil Producing Fields                           1-
Sand Dunes Area                                                                  4.0
Main Roads
c  Rivers
Mountains                                             *   -
.~~~~~~~r, .': .                                                        JiSlr'/
Karanroy             -
7'   i i                                                                                                                                    450;
To Turpan
Za.e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -     :E ,fr
.   %41                                                                        SOIE UNO
:   -4V
i7~~~~~4,               _ ~~~~~MONGOLIA                     ,        o~
025               -50          75 Kilometers                                  T.-ve                    ~-1KO8  A
0 c9e~0r,  ~i0e~ee/et/0e  /ea 10000,eS 055,0,0.0 5,N1/e
;5 .w e          r    d osdseaeeo O, WCAO's" ef .0/ 6ee/e6                               Basin Area
840                  '..                                                  E ,1 NE/e .,






VWD 16436 R2
4  .N' 54'                                                              re'                                Un-.                                   L                                        'jE, 4T      APRLi 984
S  O    V  I  E T            U   N   I  0   N                                                                1'
/._    1. _~-              7      ,   x       -3 -'                                                                               _ H   N                                    . ..I
rJ 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-..--{FrUY/NO                                                      T           iA .  '"e
r   (   >_                                                 @ ~~~~~~~~~~~         ~         ~        ~~UI.AANBAATAR  .        by                   ,g 
--           ¼                      ~~~~~~~~~~MO0   N   0   0   L   I  AA
-~4                                                                                                                                                                                      __   ,X,4|    
5s  T  j- r Tz> \ t /~~N                                                                                          /                                   SONLLf9 'iit          '     -'='\!
o'-<                      -                                                                                              S      7   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEMOCRATIC
4'MACAATICINJS  tAR  I AL                        '¾                     '"Er                                                                        *--  -: PEOo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESEPOP RUBLEICLi
~~~~ OFAFQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NISTAN ~~~~ ~       ~              ~             ~              ~            ~             ~            ~          ~           F-K)E
: 0          ¾ R   --  H                                                   GiA-(I (
F.  --s--'  ,..  LYYenhbSe5f    *A-StIAN             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SEOUYANG
TNs eap ha, b.e peepaned by                                                                   (Y,IEPU Bn; td                   -                                                                               N  S     L                          ... tt
hOeadItttwdorh t*>> ;/ #bbbYIts,Ft t}A eI/Quahe,,Bt  -/-.s .w  SWt                                                        4>
readers nsa s eeakseeeie he, the                                                                        k                ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   ~~~~~NORT  oOF KORA- 
e       - -he hAm4tonal Fm-r Ye                                                                                      Mi- It
Ceepesbe  The.eaeeen
Yead sea the S/s/sShpogn                            9                                                                        Lhi  )~ fets/el  ,  -hs
p          -Ntot maeaaae                                                               N       R  I Fr W    E  5  !                              ( -'                                                                                    I,[
otanedyNeeeeheeny    ce                                                     //                                                                    &/\\      0                                        1      >L1.
A          /                                                              2   E I TR 
S O             U T    W   E ST                                  C ,WY/70ANSE  A  S SOrT
Ye's                          _                                                                                     e,'eYn/,o t  1deegeeesmtjn    \                    j/a 
CHINA                                                    ie 7                                                 4
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION AND REFINERIES                                                                                               '  4 t,
N  OIL FIELYS                                                                                   0/SI
A  GAS IFIL.S                                              N~G4IZHOVr-"Z
REFINERIES                                            .                     K                                                                                /
bYeAN YREYS                                           a- }' St" /                                                                    t     -'-
PIPE LINE UNDE9 CONSTRUCTION                                                          J4 S40 KONGIUK
_____RGIONAL BYYNDAR ES                                                      A-'      ,                             18
-  INTEeNATQONAL EBUNDARIES                                            .K-t'AB.1 ,..                                                                  i                     MILES 4        2G0      O        dOO              EN:D
LAO PEOPLE''" ,         Y,)'4
-   NDEMOCRATIC/
T H A I L A N D (IV ENT ANy  ,    l S
dl°  94U  JC 'xjI                        HA  .P,



-   - :                                                                                                                                                     s                    ^~~~~~~~~~~~



