Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4902-CHA
FILE !,'
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
C HI NA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
May 7, 1984
Energy Department
Petroleum Proiects, Division I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September 1983)
1 Yuan                                         US$0.51
1.98 Yuan                                          US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 British thermal unit (Btu)                          0.252 kilocalories (kcal)
I barrel (bbl)                             =          0.159 cubic meters (cu m)
1 kilogram of coal equivalent (kgce)       =          0.64 kilogram of oil equivalent
1 kilometer (km)                           =          0.621 miles (mi)
1 kilowatt (kw)                            =          1,000 watts (w)
1 kWh .                                               Kilowatt hour
1 megawatt (MW)                            =          1,000 kilowatts (kw)
1 cubic foot (CF)                          =          0.0283 cubic meter (cu m)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
API          =        American Petroleum Institute degrees (API gravity)
CNOOC         =        China National Offshore Oil Corporation
CNTIC         =        China Technical Import Corporation
EOR           =        Enhanced Oil Recovery
GOC           =        Government of China
iOC's         =        International Oil Companies
JC Oil        =        Japan China Oil Development Corporation
KOC           =        Karamay Oil - Gas Exploration and Development Corporation
LPG           =        Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MCF           =        Thousand cubic feet
MOF           =        Ministry of Finance
MOG           =        Ministry of Geology
MOPI           =       Ministry of Petroleum Industry
OIP           =        oil-in-place
PCN2          =        Production Company No. 2
RASP          =        Resource Appraisal Simulation for Petroleum
SPC           =        State Planning Commmission
XPB           =        Xinjiang Petroleum Bureau



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:            Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Corporation
(KOC) and the Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI)
Amount:                 $100.3 million equivalent, including capitalized front-
end fee of $0.3 million.
Terms:                  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:        Same terms and conditions as the Bank loan; GOC bears
the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   The proposed project would assist GOC/KOC in exploring
and evaluating the potential of the Karamay oilfield;
evolving the optimum method of recovering heavy oil and
undertaking a study on utilization of gas from South
China Sea. It would include high resolution and three
dimensional seismic surveys, drilling of about 530
exploration/appraisal wells, and designing and carrying
out pilot projects for heavy oil recovery. An
important objective of the project is to introduce
modern technology and methods to the petroleum industry
in China -- expanding the process initiated under the
first two Bank-financed petroleum projects in the
country to areas of exploration strategy and heavy oil
recovery. The project would provide for improvement of
techniques and equipment utilized in the evaluation of
oil bearing formations, upgrading of the processing
center at Urumqi, establishment of a training center
and a computer center and technical assistance
(including 180 man-months of expatriate consultant
services). The major benefits from the project are the
prospect of establishing additional light oil reserves
and the potential for heavy oil, evaluating the
viability of recovering of heavy oil by appropriate
thermal processes, a study to optimize gas use, and
transfer of technology. The project involves risks
which are common in petroleum exploration and
development. The project has been designed to minimize
these risks, including the provision of seismic surveys
and technical assistance. Even though it is not
possible at this stage to quantify the rate of return
from the project, tlip prospects of the exploration
program and ttw ht,,vy oili pilot project proving
economic art r-?;*J dh.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Local    Foreign         Total
($ million)
Estimated
Costs:
Seismic Surveys                  20.0        24.0        44.0
Seismic data processing           8.0         8.0        16.0
Exploration and delineation
wells                        298.0       132.0       430.0
Heavy Oil Pilots                  5.5        11.5        17.0
Supporting facilities &
Services                        2.0        10.5        12.5
Imported Equipment                6.0        27.0        33.0
Training & Technical
assistance                      2.0         6.0         8.0
Total Base Cost               341.5       219.0       560.5
Physical Contingencies           34.0        21.0        55.0
Price Contingencies              68.5        33.0       101.5
Total Project Cost!'          444.0       273.0       717.0
Front-end fee                     --          0.3         0.3
Charge on use of foreign
exchange                     36.2        --          36.2
Total Financing Required    480.2         273.3       753.5
Financing
Plan.
GOC/KOC                         480.2         --        430.2
Suppliers' Credit or GOC          --        173.0       1658.0
IBRD                              --        100.3       100.3
Total         480.2       273.3       753.5
Estimated                                IBRD FY  1985      1986    1987       1988
Disbursements:                                          ($ million)
Annual                         8.0      32.0    54.0       6.3
Cumulative                     8.0      40.0    94.0    100.3
Econaomic Rate
of Return:        N.A.
Maps:               IBRD No.  16436 R2
IBRD No. 17771 R
1/     Local costs include taxes and import duties (estimated at 15% of
imported goods).



CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    ENERGY SECTOR .......       .      ..................,...... * .
A.   Introduction ........................................... .1
B.   Energy Balance and Resource Endowment   ..          ...............2
Coal ................................ . . . . .. . . . . .  2
Power .................                                        .2
Oil Shale....    2
Non-commercial Energy ...................3
C.   Efficiency of Energy Use ...........................    .. . .3
I I. OIL AND GAS SECTOR                          .        ...... . .4
A.   Background ...............................                            4
B.   Oil and Gas Reserves..... ........... . ..............  ....... . 4
C. Institutions....                                                       5
D.  Exploration .. .....                           . ......6
Onshore...... 6
offshore ...........................   .... . . . .. .. . .  6
E.   Consumption Pattern ................... ...... . .  . .. .  .  . .. .   7
F.   Natural Gas       .      ..........              . ............... 8
G.  Prices ..........................9
Ht. Investment                            . ..... 10
I.   Sectoral Issues and the Role of the Bank .10
III.  BENEFICIARY .................t....  ...o...12
A. Background                     ............ 12
B. Functions.                                 ......  13
C.   Organization and Management.                       .     ...... 13
D.   Companies Responsible for Project Implementation   .....14
E.   Financial/Accounting Practices              .    .    .     .15
F.   Planning ..............................       . . .. .. t .... .  15
G.   Internal Control System .... .......................... . .16
H. External Audit                     . ....16
I.   Incentive System .      .    .     .     ......................... 17
J.  Insurance                     .       .        .....  ....... *17
This report is based on the findings of a mission that visited China in
September 1983 and was prepared by Messrs. V. Nayyar, A. El-Mekkawy,
J. Schweighauser, A. Smit and Ms. S. Shum of the Energy Department, with the
support of P. White, who acted as consultant for the mission.



- ii -
IV.   THE PROJECT ...........................................                       17
A. Background                               ....... 17
B.   Project Objectives .         .      ........................................ 18
C.   Geology and Prospects .           . .................................. 19
Karamay Area ................................. . ..   19
Wuerhe-Hungchiba Area .         .       .................................. 20
Hongshanzui-Chepaizi Area .        .    ..........................  . 20
D.   Project Design .                ............................................. 20
Exploration Program                       ....  20
Heavy Oil Pilot .............................................      22
E.   Project Description     .......................... ... ..... .............. 23
Exploration and Appraisal Program                  . . . .   23
Heavy Oil Recovery .         . .....................................  23
Training .       .       ............................................... 24
Studies ................................. .      . , ..     . .    24
F.   Project Costs . .            ............................................. 24
G.   Project Implementation .           . .................................... 26
H.   Project Financing .          .      ......................................... 26
I.   Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan .....................2
J.   Procurement .        .       ............................................... 27
K.   Technical Studies.......................................... 29
Reservoir Engineering                       . . .   29
Geological Study ....................................... .     .   30
Gas Use Study .       .      .......................................... 30
Training ...... o .         ........................................ 31
L.   Computer Center .         .       ........................................... 31
M.  Transportation Requirement                         . . .    31
N.   Ecology .        .        ................................................... 32
0.   Reporting Requirement ....................................... 32
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS .................................................. 32
A.    Introduction ................................................. 32
B. Pricing                                ..... 33
C.   Costing .        .        ................................................... 33
D.   Funding Arrangement .         .     ....................................... 34
E.   Past Finances and Present Financial Position ................ 35
F. Future Finances                            ....... 36
G.   Investment and Field Maintenance Program                  ....  36
H. Funds Flow                       . . . ............ 37
I.   Financial Position .. ..........................                         37
J.   Sensitivity Analysis                   .     .      .     ............. 37
K.  Recommendations                     . . . .............. 38



- iii -
VI.  PROJECT RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION   .......... ............. 38
A.   Project Justification ....  ... .... .... ***a .... .. . ... .... .38
B.   Project Risks .   .     .    . ................................. 38
Petroleum Exploration ..................................... 38
C.   Cost-Benefit Analysis ..................................... 39
Heavy Oil Recovery Pilots .......... ..................... 39
D.   Conclusion ....... . .         . . .......................... . 40
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................              40
ANNEXES
1.01  Energy Balance
2.01  Organization Chart, Ministry of Petroleum
2.02  Oil Production by Major Fields and Regions and Oil Balances
2.03  Gas Production and Refinery Yield
3.01  Organization Chart - Karamay Oil - Gas Exploration and Development
Corporation
3.02  Organization Chart - Drilling Company
3.03  Orgnization Chart - Production Company No.2
4.01  Petroleum Geology of the Karamay Oil Field and its Extension
4.02  Hydrocarbon Expectations
4.03  Geophysical Exploration
4.04  Allocation of Bank Loan
4.05  Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
4.06  Thermal Recovery of Heavy Oil
4.07  Project Implementation Schedule
4.08  List of Equipment
5.01  Notes on Financial Aspects
5.02  KOC Income Statements (1980-82)
5.03  KOC Balance Sheet (1980-82)
5.04  KOC Projected Income Statements (1983-87)
5.05  KOC Projected Balance Sheet (1983-87)
5.06  KOC Projected Sources and Uses of Funds (1983-87)
5.07  Flow of Funds Between KOC and GOC (1980-87)
5.08  KOC Unit Cost of Production
6.01  Assumptions for Cost/Benefit Analysis
7.01  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD No. 17771R
IBRD No. 16436 R2






I. ENERGY SECTOR I!
A. Introduction
1.01     China is well endowed in primary energy.  It is the fourth largest
producer of commercial energy after the United States, the Soviet Union and
Saudi Arabia. Output of commercial energy is one-fifth of USA and one-third
of USSR. Coal and lignite reserves are estimated at over 600 billion tons.
Exploitable annual hydro potential is estimated at 1,900 billion kWh, against
the present hydro generation of 74 billion kWh. Official estimates of oil and
gas reserves are not available. Unofficial estimates, however, place the
recoverable reserves of oil at 1.8-2.5 billion tons, and of natural gas, both
associated and non-associated, at about 130 billion cubic meters (equivalent
to over 110 million tons of oil). From the review of the sedimentary basins,
the ultimate recoverable reserves of oil are estimated to be in the range of 9
to 18 billion tons. In addition, the reserves of oil shales are reported to
be of the order of about 400 billion tons. For a number of reasons, including
logistics, substantial investment requirements and the long gestation period
needed for developing coal and hydro potential, the relative share of coal and
hydro power in the overall energy balance is not anticipated to increase
significantly over the next ten years.
1.02     China's achievement in developing its energy resources over the last
three decades has been impressive. Production of coal has increased from
little over 60 million tons in 1952 to 666 million tons in 1982. During the
same period, power generating capacity increased from a little less than 2000
MW to 72,360 MW. Oil production increased from about 0.1 million tons in 1950
to 106 million tons by 1979. Output of oil fell marginally to about 101 - 102
million tons in 1981 and 1982. Rapid development of its indigenous energy
base pushed China into the rank of the third largest consumer of commercial
energy in the world, behind USA and the Soviet Union, but ahead of Japan.
1.03     China's energy consumption pattern is more analogous to a developing
country where a large proportion of the population continues to rely upon non-
commercial sources (plant residue and animal power) for meeting its energy
requirements. Consumption per capita is about 650 kilograms of coal
equivalent (kgce), which is slightly above the average for developing
countries (620 kgce). In fact, China's energy sector is a curious amalgam of
the traditional and the modern and of advanced technologies and inefficient
practices. Future prospects of developing domestic sources of energy remain
uncertain, and while the probability for retaining self-sufficiency in energy
remains high throughout the eighties, it is doubtful if China would be able to
sustain the rate of growth it achieved over the last two decades. Major
oilfields have peaked and entered into a declining phase. No new discoveries
have been made in a magnitude to offset this decline. With the help of
internationl oil companies, China has initiated a major exploratory effort in
its offshore areas; and while the prospects are considered to be very good,
offshore oil is unlikely to augment China's production significantly before
1990. Rapid expansion of coal industry faces problems in terms of investment,
1/       For more detailed discussion please see Bank's report No. 3391-CHA -
China: Socialist Economic Development - Annex E: The Energy Sector.



- 2 -
location and transportation. Remoteness of major hydro potential sites from
the: centers of consumption and the long gestation period, precludes
hydropower's share from increasing significantly beyond its present level
within the 1980's.
B. Energy Balance and Resource Endowment
1.04     Estimates of commercial energy balance for 1980, 1982 and 1985 are at
Annex 1.01. Oil and gas as a source of primary energy is considered in
section II, other sources are discussed below:
(1) Coal
1.05     Coal is China's traditional source of energy and at present caters to
nearly 70% of its demand for commercial energy. The output of raw coal in
1982 was about 666 million tons, a level surpassed only by USA and USSR. The
coal and lignite reserves are concentrated largely in the north and northeast,
and represent about 70% of the total recoverable reserves in China (600
billion tons).  In terms of production also, the north and northeast account
for 70% of the total national output and the south, with production level of
15%, remains coal deficient. While there are some modern collieries in China,
most of the mines are only partly mechanized. Future plans call for increased
mechanization in both old and new mines, and for domestic manufacture of
underground mining equipment. The Government expects the output to reach 700
million tons by 1985. To increase coal production beyond this level would
require not only a massive increase in investment for opening new mines and
modernizing existing ones, but also in rail transport which is the single most
important constraint.
(2) Power
1.06     China increased its generating capacity from little less than 2000 MW
in 1952 to over 72,360 MW by 1982 - an average growth rate of about 14% per
annum. Of this, 68% of the generating capacity is thermal (49,400 MW) and 32%
is hydro (22,960 MW). In 1982, 328 billion kWh of power was generated, of
which about 77% was thermal and the balance 23% hydro. China's hydro power
potential is among the largest in the world, and is estimated at 1900 billion
kWh per year against the present hydro generation of about 74 billion kWh.
Over the last decade, the mini hydrostations got a tremendous impetus and grew
from about 15,000 to about 90,000 in number. Typically, these stations are
about 50 kW in generating capacity, and are designed to meet the needs of the
rural areas. Besides providing power to the local communes, reservoirs built
for this purpose meet irrigation requirements, prevent floods and are being
used for pisciculture.
(3)  Oil Shale
1.07     Reserves of oil shale in China are reported unofficially to be of the
order of 400 billion tons and may be much larger, since geological environment
is favorable for their formation in many of the sedimentary basins. Deposits
of 100 billion tons or more, containing 5-10 billion tons of oil, are reported
in Heilongjiang and Hebei. The grade of most of oil shales is fairly low
(less than 10%), but a few deposits have 10-20% of oil by weight. Before
1958, oil shale accounted for almost half of Chinese oil production, but the



proportion declined rapidly as normal crude oil production increased after the
discovery of the Daqing oilfield. Currently, from the Liaoning and Guangdong
mines, about 300,000 tons of shale oil is being produced. In view of the
anticipated energy shortage, oil shale may once again need to be considered as
an important energy resource.
(4) Non-commercial Energy
1.08     Unofficial estimates place the energy extracted from non-commercial
sources at 250 million tons of coal equivalent or about one-third of the total
energy used. If this estimate is correct, then the traditional fuels play a
smaller role in China than in most other countries with similar per capita
income levels. This is partially explained by a high population density and
low availability of forest resources. For maximizing the benefits from non-
commercial sources of energy, China has pioneered and is now the leader in
producing biogas. In addition to the ecological benefits, through lower
deforestation and the saving of fossil fuels, biogas digesters produce organic
fertilizer, an essential ingredient for Chinese agriculture.
C. Efficiency of Energy Use
1.09     From the limited data available, it appears that China's level of
commercial energy consumption is very high in relation to its economic
activity. Although global comparisons of commercial energy consumption per
unit of GDP show China with an energy intensity level more than double that of
most other developing countries and industrialized market economies, this is a
very crude index of energy efficiency, and is subject to considerable
variation due to differences in the structure of GNP and problems associated
with the valuation of output. Nevertheless, micro-level energy intensity
comparisons on a physical basis, particularly in industry, indicate
substantial potential for improvement in industrial energy efficiency in
China. For example, in the steel and fertilizer industry, energy consumption
per ton of output is approximately double the level achieved in other
developing countries using state-of-the-art technology.
1.10     The problem of energy efficiency in China largely results from the
use of outdated technology,,ynadequate facilities to capture waste heat, the
scale of industrial plants,- and the raw materials used. Many of these
problems will require complex studies and take time to resolve. Their
solution would require substantial capital investment and considerable
industrial restructuring. The Government is well aware of and highly
concerned about these problems, and is promulgating a number of policy
measures to address them, while according energy conservation equal priority
with increasing energy production. These measures include plans to establish
a number of energy conservation technical assistance centers to assist
industrial enterprises in evaluating and improving their energy efficiency,
enterprise-level quota systems with accompanying bonus and pricing systems for
energy conservation below or above quota, industrial restructuring (including
decreased relative emphasis on heavy industry), and increased taxation on
petroleum fuels to encourage both conservation and fuel substitution. These
1/ This may however have to be compared with savings in transport cost.



- 4 -
measures appear to have had some success.   In 1980 and 81, primary commercial
energy consumption per unit of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) fell by 6.7% and
4.0% respectively.
II. OIL AND GAS SECTOR
A. Background
2.01     While oil was discovered in China in 1897, annual oil production up
to 1950 was no more than 120,000 tons of which about 50,000 tons was from oil
shale. During the fifties, exploratory effort was confined to northwest China
which resulted in relatively modest discoveries including the Karamay oil
field.  However, from 1957, exploration was undertaken in the northeast and
northern China, leading to the discovery of the 'super giant' oilfield in
Daqing in 1959. This was followed by discoveries in Shengli and Dagang in
1964. In 1965 petroleum production reached 11.3 million tons and withi that
China became self-sufficient. During the sixties, the increase in oil
production was relatively moderate; the major spurt came in the seventies withi
production increasing from 30 million tons in 1970 to 106 million tons in
1979. This increase came largely from the development of the Daqing oilfield,
and to a lesser extent, from the development of the Shengli and Renqiu
oilfields.
B. Oil and Gas Reserves
2.02     Official estimates of oil and gas reserves are not available. The
magnitude of China's proven and probable reserves is the subject of
considerable speculation and study outside the country.  Varying estimates
relating to the proven recoverable reserves for oil have been made by
different geologists/bodies; the opinion, including that of the Bank's
missions, is now converging to a range which varies from 1.8 to 2.5 billi.on
tons. Estimates regarding possible and probable reserves, both offshore and
onshore, are by nature somewhat speculative. The current estimates range from
5-10 billion tons in the onshore region and 4-8 billion tons in the offshore
area.
2.03     Currently, the major non-associated gas fields are located in the
Sichuan Province and the recoverable reserves are estimated at 80 billion
cubic meters. In addition, there are some minor natural gas fields in the
northwestern part of China. Over and above this, the recoverable reserves of
associated gas are estimated at about 50 billion cubic meters. The cumulative
recoverable gas reserves are thus about 130 billion cubic meters, equivalent
to over 110 million tons of oil. There is, however, a view that gas reserves
have not been adequately explored and the presently known recoverable reserves
are a mere fraction of the full potential. According to some estimates, the
ultimate recoverable reserves of natural gas, both offshore and onshore, could
be as high as 3,000 billion cubic meters. Recent gas discoveries in Zhongyuan
and South China Sea lend credence to this view point.



-5-
C. Institutions
2.04     The Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI) oversees all aspects of oil
and natural gas activities which include policy making and overall planning,
exploration, production, distribution, transportation, research/design and
training. Created as a Bureau in the Ministry of Fuel Industry in October,
1949, it became a full ministry in 1955 and oversaw the opening of the Daqing
oilfield in 1959 and the various discoveries thereafter. The organization
chart of MOPI is in Annex 2.01. There are however areas where functions of
other ministries overlap with MOPI. The Ministry of Geology (MOG), in
addition to being in charge of petroleum related geological work, separately
and independently undertakes offshore exploration. Similar fragmentation of
responsibility exists in the refining.
2.05     The petroleum sector in China employs over a million workers.  MOPI
oversees this vast sector through seven onshore petroleum companies, one
offshore petroleum company and several institutes and service companies.
However, primary responsibility for exploration and production of oil and gas
rests with the regional oil companies. Through the process of iterative
consultations with each company, MOPI and the State Planning Commission
establish various physical targets and agree on investment priorities.
Resources for investment financing are allocated by MOPI, while regional
companies have a much greater autonomy in the financing of their current
expenditures (see Section 5). Once this is done, each company enjoys a fair
amount of operational autonomy and is answerable to MOPI essentially for
results. In fact, difficult logistics, great distance and the sheer numbers
involved make the MOPI intervention on anything but the most basic issues
virtually impossible. Such an organizational system has worked effectively so
far. However, these large oil companies, self contained as they are, have
little or no contact amongst them or with the rest of the world; the resulting
insulation makes learning from one another's experience and diffusion of new
technology, significantly more difficult. Furthermore, the existing
organizational pattern does not encourage innovation, the decision making
process is protracted and the areas of responsibility are rigidly defined;
these characteristics could becone problems, as interface with the foreign oil
industry increases, especially in offshore development.
2.06     The China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) was created in
February, 1982 to oversee all work relating to offshore exploration and
development. CNOOC is responsible for inviting and evaluating bids and
entering into offshore petroleum agreements with foreign oil companies. For
implementing petroleum contracts and contracts for the construction of
offshore installation and facilit:ies, CNOOC has established four regional
subsidiary corporations. In addition, CNOOC has set up six specialized
companies for logging, geophysical services, navigation, offshore drilling,
etc., in joint venture with foreign companies. Further, as of September 1983,
Petrochemical Corporation of China has been created and all industries using
petroleum products or natural gas as feed stock have been transferred to this
Corporation. In addition, all refineries with a capacity of over 1 million
tons have come under the management of this Corporation. This Corporation is
independent of MOPI and reports directly to the State Council.



-6-
D. Exploration
(1) Onshore
2.07     Until the late 1970s, China was remarkably successful in implementing
a policy of total self-reliance. However, the rate of discovery has been
declining and Renqiu was the last major discovery. This stagnation results
from a large number of features which characterize China's exploratory
efforts. On the one hand, the immense size and geological complexity of the
prospective areas impose an enormous requirement in resources which cannot be
made available from the system. On the other hand, the policies dictated by
central planning and the objective of self reliance has limited cross
fertilization, access to new technologies and ideas and has over-emphasized
production and short term gains over long term prospecting efforts
commensurate with China's geological potential.
2.08     As part of the effort to meet the formidable target it has set to
double oil output by the end of the century despite production decline irom
existing fields, GOC has recently decided to accelerate the country's
exploration program.  Over the medium term, the main prospecting efforts will
remain in the better understood east and north-eastern basins, including
exploratory drilling in deeper geological strata of existing oilfields and
seismic surveys in the peripheral of producing areas where even small
discoveries could be brought to stream rapidly. Prospecting efforts will also
be expanded in the under-explored west and northwest, including the Junggar,
Tarim, Qaidam and Ordos basins, which have been neglected despite good
prospects for discovery of large reserves. These areas could contribute
significantly to China's production in the 1990's.
2.09     Taking account of its technological constraints, China has secured,
on a limited scale, assistance of foreign petroleum service companies in
undertaking seismic surveys and exploratory drilling in especially difficult
areas. In addition, China has tried to attract international oil companies to
explore in north-western basins, but the industry has so far appeared to
prefer the offshore areas where the infrastructure constraints are
considerably less than onshore and where extensive geophysical surveys could
be carried out at a lesser cost. More recently, GOC has turned to the Bank to
provide technical assistance to enhance the productivity of Chinese oil
companies, primarily through the identification of technological problems,
appraisal of hydrocarbon prospects and assistance in the selection of
tezhnologies which could be disseminated rapidly and would help upgrade the
ongoing production and exploration effort.
(2) Offshore
2.10     Prior to 1979, China had on its own undertaken seismic work and
developed offshore structures in the Bohai area, and in doing so recognized
the limitation of its offshore technology. Thereafter, in a major policy
change, China sought the active cooperation of foreign oil companies in
identifying and developing its offshore structures. Forty-eight foreign oil
companies, from 12 countries, were invited to undertake geophysical and
seismic work over 420,000 square kilometers of China's offshore sedimentary
basins. These surveys identified six prospective basins and more than 475
prospective hydrocarbon structures therein.



- 7 -
2.11     Initially, China entered into participation agreements with foreign
oil companies through bilateral negotiations. On the basis of these
negotiations, five agreements were entered into; two with the Japan National
Oil Company (JNOC) for the Bohai bay, one with Elf, also in the Bohai bay,
one with Total Chine for an area in the Tonkin Gulf and one with Arco in the
South China Sea off the Hainan Island. Subsequently, in early 1982, the
Government promulgated regulations that would enable foreign oil companies to
participate in exploring China's offshore basin. Further, CNOOC was created
to invite and evaluate bids and enter into offshore petroleum agreements with
foreign oil companies. The new regulations allow petroleum contracts that
make foreign oil companies bear the cost of all exploration investment and the
accompanying risks. Once a commercial oil and/or gas field is discovered,
both the foreign contractor and CNOOC will invest jointly in its
development. Initially the foreign contractor will be responsible for
developing and operating the field, but CNOOC may take over as the field's
operator whenever it deems fit. The rights of the foreign contracting party
to recover its investment and expenses and to receive remuneration for the
petroleum produced would be specified in the contract.
2.12     The response to the first phase of Chinese offering has been
adequate. Eleven production sharing contracts have been negotiated and
concluded, of whiich ten relate to the South China Sea and one is for the South
Yellow Sea. CNOOC hopes to conclude another four to five contracts by the end
of 1984. Of these, for five contracts, the operator is BP, for two Esso, for
another two Occidental with JNOC and Idemitsu being operators for one each.
E. Consumption Pattern
2.13     Rising oil production led to an increased role of hydrocarbons in the
Chinese economy. Coal has been the traditional source of commercial energy
supplying 90% of total energy as recently as 1965. The relative share of oil
and natural gas increased from about 2% in 1965 to 20% in 1982, with coal
(73.5%) and hydro (7%) providing the balance. The major consumer of oil is
the industry and commerce sector (45%) followed by transport (17%) and power
(20%). Similarly, natural gas is used by industry to the extent of 88% and
the balance by power. Household consumption for illumination, heating and
transportation is minimal and accounts for less than 2%. An unusual feature
in the consumption pattern is the direct use of crude, to the extent of 6
million tons in 1982, as fuel oil. Non availability of refining facilities
close to the producing field, transportation constraints and poor quality of
crude, in part explain this otherwise wasteful practice.
2.14     Over the last 17 years consumption has been growing at an annual rate
of about 12%. However, faced with a situation of falling oil and gas
production, efforts are being made to decelerate the growth; as a matter of
fact consumption in 1982 is reported to be about 82 million tons against the
peak of 90 million tons attained in 1978. IHowever, it is moot if further
reduction in consumption can be secured without adversely affecting the rate
of growth. True, there is considerable wastage of energy and the scope for
replacing oil by coal is substantial. However, bringing this about is not
going to be easy or quick. Replacement of oil by coal would require
substantial investment in terms of transportation and extensive
retrofitting. Similarly, once a production mode has been determined, the
energy efficiency factor is locked in and major improvement in energy use



- 8 -
cannot be secured without discarding the investment. A more promising
direction is in the choice and design of new investments which should be more
energy efficient and flexible in Lerms of fuel use.
2.15     Forecasts relating to future demand of petroleum products are not
available.  Further, in the absence of detailed macroeconomic and sectoral
data, it is not possible to make any reliable forecast. However, the demand
for petroleum products in 1985 could reach about 90 million tons.
Imiplications of such a scenario are serious. China has so far been able to
maintain the export level; in fact stepped it up even in a situation of
declining production. In 1982 China's earnings from the export of oil are
estimated at $5.4 billion and represented 22% of its total foreign exchange
earnings. Consumption level of 90 million tons or above would imply that oil
exports would cease to be a significant source of foreign exchange earnings in
the not too distant future. The overall growth in production, consumption and
exports over the last 15 years is at Annex 2.02.
F. Natural Gas
2.16     China produces gas in significant quantities; in 1982 production of
gas (associated and non-associated) amounted to 11.9 billion cubic meters,
equivalent to about 10 million tons of oil. Of this, gas produced in
association with oil amounted to 5.96 billion cubic meters. The balance of
5.95 billion cubic meters, is non-associated gas, which is produced
essentially in the Sichuan Province, although marginal quantities are also
being produced in the Qaidam basin in the northwest. Gas production over the
last five years by regions is at A.nnex 2.03. Presently about 30% of the
natural gas is used for fertilizers, about 10% for petrochemicals and
synthetic fibers and the balance of 60% for fuel, of which about 12% was used
for thermal power plants.
2.17     Non-associated gas fields in the Sichuan Province, which have been
producing for over 100 years, have now entered a declining phase. Similarly,
with the decline in oil production in the Daqing, Shengli and Dagang
oi]fields, production of associated gas would also decline. As a matter of
fact, gas production in 1982 in relation to 1980, registered a decline of
about 15%, equivalent to 2 million tons of oil. Falling gas production would
inevitably stimulate demand for liquid hydrocarbons. However, prospects for
developing alternate sources of gas have improved. Recently a major gas
discovery has been made in Zhongyuan; preliminary estimates place the reserves
at about 3.5 trillion cubic feet (tcf). Separately the oil discovery made in
the Bohai bay is reported to have high gas-oil ratio ranging from 800-2800 sef
to a barrel of oil. Again, an offshore gas discovery of significant magnitude
has been made south of Hainan Island in the South China Sea by Arco. Further,
gas discoveries, both associated aad non associated, are likely to be made as
offshore exploration gathers momentum. It is, therefore, necessary that China
take steps to exploit this potential which would, inter alia, involve the
development of the gas fields, put:ing in gathering systems, establishing gas
infrastructure and taking such other measures as are necessary for identifying
potential demand and building the necessary absorptive capacity for gas. In
the ensuing months, the Bank intends to review this aspect in considerable
detail with MOPI.



-9-
G. Prices
2.18     Prices of petroleum products, like other essential commodities in
China, are fixed by the National Price Administrative Bureau. This Bureau
functions as an independent entity, and works under the supervision and
guidance of the State Council. The oilfields sell crude oil to the refineries
at a well-head price of Y100 ($53) per ton, with the exception of relatively
higher cost oilfields in northwest China (Karamay oilfield) and new oil fields
(Zhongyuan) which sell crude at Y115 ($58) and Y130 ($68) per ton,
respectively. Refineries in turn sell petroleum products to the Ministry of
Commerce which is responsible for marketing the products. There is a price
differential at every point, with the oilfields, the refineries, and the
Ministry of Commerce, acting as profit centers for the State. The table below
indicates the price of various petroleum products, ex-refinery and at the
pump head.
Petroleum Product Prices
Ex-refinery prices   Retail Price    Internationallb   Domestic Price
Y/ton    $/ton        Y/ton $/ton    price $/ton           as % world
prices
Gasoline         590        298       800     404             282                 143
Kerosene         420        212       680     343             270                 127
Diesel           240        121       420     212             230                  92
Fuel oil/         55         28       134/c    68             160                  43
Natural gas/Id   -          -           2.9      1.5            4.0                38
(Y/MCF)   ($/MCF)        ($/MCF)
2.19     The average price of reconstituted barrel is about Y53 or $27, which
approximates the international price (FOB) net of average transport cost
within China. In pricing petroleuma products, like many other countries, China
uses the system of cross subsidies; some products (motor gasoline and
kerosene) are priced above international levels and others (diesel, fuel oil)
below this level. The price of fuel oil is the relevant comparator for the
value of natural gas. In China, the price of natural gas approximates the
fuel oil price in Btu equivalent. The Government has initiated a series of
administrative measures, including quotas, in order to contain the demand for
petroleum products and encourage its substitution by coal. The Government is
aware that some energy products are underpriced. It is considering the
revision of petroleum prices as a part of its overall price readjustment.
There is a proposal to increase the price of crude oil from Y100 to (Y115 and
Y130 in some cases) to Y175 per ton. This proposal is pending a decision of
the State Council. As an interim raeasure, starting from July 1982, a special
tax of Y70/ton has been levied on crude and fuel oil which is burnt as fuel.
La Weighted average price, 30% of fuel oil consumed as feedstock does not
include special tax on petroleum fuel.
/b FOB Singapore prices on December 19, 1983.
/c Assumes transport cost averaged at Y30/ton.
/d In terms of Btu fuel oil equivalent.



- 10 -
H. Investment
2.19     The average investment in the petroleum sector over the last six
years has been about Y4.5 billion ($2.3 billion) per annum. Of this total,
some 70% has gone into development with exploration securing 30%. About 52%
of the investment has been funded by the state budget and the balance (48%) by
the retained funds of state enterprises. Government funds have covered the
entire cost of exploration and 27% of development investment. As offshore
exploration has mainly been carried out by foreign oil companies at their
risk, China's expenditure for offshore exploration has so far remained modest,
cumulatively amounting to about Y80 million ($40 million). On the other hand
the exploration expenditure made by foreign oil companies is estimated at Y1
billion ($500 million) by end 1982.
2.21     To offset the anticipated decline in the existing oilfields and
secure a net increase over the current production level, China would need to
step up its petroleum investment substantially. Exploration investment would
also need to be increased. Offshore development would create a further draft
on resources since GOC would share the development costs to the extent of 51%
under the joint venture agreement. Depending upon the success attending the
offshore exploratory efforts, China's share could amount to several billion
doLlars. China would not be in a position to finance such an ambitious
program from within its own resources. It has accordingly decided to finance
al-L offshore development program from commercial/bilateral borrowing and
supplier credit. Consequently, for financing its share of the offshore
exploration/development in Bohai Bay, GOC has relied largely on loans from the
government of Japan, and its Exim Bank. Total borrowing for this development
is expected to exceed $1 billion. However, for the time being, GOC wishes to
limit commercial and supplier's credit, etc. for the development of its
offshore program. Limiting cofinancing to a specific activity, according to
the Chinese policy makers, has several advantages:  it makes credit monitoring
easier; as offshore activities would generate foreign exchange directly, debt
servicing would not be an issue; financial requirements are likely to be high
and risks relatively low; and this will assist China in not only obtaining the
necessary resources but also securiag better terms.
I. Sectoral Issues and the Role of the Bank
2.22     From available evidence it is clear that China at least in the medium
term, faces the prospect of decliniag oil production. There are also various
constraints to the rate at which alternative sources of energy (gas, hydro,
coal) can be developed and brought to the consumption centers. China's
petroleum exploration strategy over the longer term is to increase exploratory
efforts, especially in the northwes: onshore areas, and in the offshore areas
where private industry investment is being actively sought. On the energy
demand side, various measures to control demand are currently being
implemented including quota systems, technical assistance to enterprises, and
some industrial restructuring (para. 1.10).
2.23     Demand for petroleum products, while currently contained at a fixed
level of about 82 million tons through administrative measures, will pick up
over the next few years thus reducing the potential for exports. The period
between 1985-1990 could be difficult, seeing a steady erosion in foreign
exchange earnings from exports of oil. Thus for China, sustaining production



- 11 -
at the current level is of critical importance, and a marginal increase in
aggregate production would be of considerable advantage. To achieve this,
however, will require a substantial investment in terms of new technology,
adoption of enhanced oil recovery methods, infill drilling, exploring for and
developing peripheral reservoirs, rapidly developing small discoveries and
above all building the necessary infrastructure to utilize associated and
natural gas which could replace liquid hydrocarbons.
2.24     China's onshore petroleum operations currently face the prospects of
declining production, with regional companies being required to undertake
exploration and production under increasingly difficult and complex
conditions. In this they are hampered by the lack of both appropriate
technology and relevant equipment. To help overcome these constraints, it has
sought the collaboration of international oil companies (IOC's). A number of
these companies have been invited to visit China's oilfields and have been
approached as to whether they would be interested in providing technical
assistance for exploration and development. With similar objectives, a large
number of Chinese delegations have also visited various IOCs. In these
efforts, China has met with little success. While there has been considerable
interest in China's petroleum potential, this interest has been confined
almost exclusively, at least for the present, to the offshore areas; as for
the possibility of providing technical assistance, little interest has been
expressed by most of the IOC's who expect higher returns in deploying their
scarce technical staff than can be provided by technical assistance contracts.
It is in this context that GOC has sought Bank's participation in the onshore
petroleum sector. Over the past three years Bank staff have assisted several
regional Chinese oil companies in assessing the nature of the problems they
were facing, providing state-of-the-art expertise, proposing solutions,
diagnosing technological gaps, prevailing upon them to undertake relevant
technical studies, assisting them in preparing terms of reference, and
securing consultants. The Bank will subsequently assist these organizations
in overseeing these studies and designing corrective measures and supervising
their implementation.
2.25     The basic rationale for the Bank's participation in China's petroleum
sector therefore lies in the packaging of technical assistance programs,
monitoring them, and subsequently overseeing their implementation. As
conditions are so diverse within the different producing areas of the country
and the management problems of each oil company so unique that for each
oilfield a separate package of technical assistance has to be evolved, which
is achieved through a detailed review by the Bank staff of the entire
operations of the company, and an agreement on the area where assistance would
be most useful. For example, in the Daqing oilfield, the focus of first Bank-
financed petroleum project (Loan 2231-CHA), the technical assistance addressed
enhanced oil recovery, infill drilling, reservoir engineering, production
techniques, etc. In the Zhongyuan oilfield, the Bank's second petroleum
project (Loan 2252-CHA), the technical assistance related to exploration and
drilling methods under conditions of high temperature and pressure. In both
cases, however, the main objective remained the same, that is, to provide the
specific package of technical assistance requirements in priority production
areas; assistance which would maximize the chances of increasing production
further at an acceptable cost.



- 12 -
2.26     Similarly, the broad objectives of the Bank in the Karamay Petroleum
Project are the provision of technical assistance. Specific components have,
however, been tailored to meet the needs of KOC not only in oilfield
technology but also in designing an exploration and heavy oil recovery program
which aim at establishing a higher, longer-term, production base for the
Karamay oilfield. The exploration component will assist KOC with up to date
tec'hniques and equipment related to exploration and delineation which should
improve the chances of discovering additional reserves in the near term.  The
heavy oil component will assist in studying the feasibility of, and evolving
state-of-the-art methods for developing considerable reserves of heavy oil
which have already been discovered.  Finally the project will focus the
attention of the Government of China on natural gas as a source of potential
energy.  To this end the project would assist the government in undertaking a
detailed study regarding the potential demand for natural gas from South China
Sea and in determining the viability of supplying natural gas to the potential
market.  While the exploration component will largely be limited to KOC, it is
expeCted that the heavy oil component and the gas related studies will have a
cour;trywide impact and contribute to increased oil and gas production. The
Bank:'s future lending in this sector would support GOC's efforts to stem the
decline in its oil production through the application of enhanced oil recovery
methods, and exploring and developing the peripheral areas of existing
fields. In addition, the Bank would assist China in diversifying its energy
base through a more rapid development of its heavy oil reserves and optimizing
the use of natural gas (through rehabilitation of old gas fields, development
of new fields and provisions for infrastructure).
III. BENEFICIARY
A. Background
3.01     Oil exploration commenced in Karamay in 1953 under a venture jointly
managed by China and the Soviet Union. In 1955, the management reverted
exclusively to the Chinese.  The Karamay oilfield was discovered in late
1955. In June 1956 the Karamay Mining Bureau was established to develop the
Karamay oilfield. Except for a limited period during the 1970's, the bureau
has functioned from its very inception under the overall leadership of the
Ministry of Petroleum. However, the Xinjiang Petroleum Bureau (XPB), on
behalf of the Xinjiang Autonomous Region supervises issues relating to
personnel. In January, 1983, the management of the Karamay oilfield was
reorganized and the company was designated as the Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration
and Development Corporation (KOC). The other oil companies currently
operating in the Xinjiang Autonomous Region are the South Xinjiang Exploration
Company, which is currently undertaking exploration in the Tarim Basin and the
East Xinjiang Exploration Company which is currently exploring in the eastern
and the southeastern part of the Junggar Basin. As in the case of KOC, all
operational and financial matters are supervised by MOPI and issues relating
to personnel are managed by XPB.



- 13 -
B. Functions
3.02     KOC operates as a state owned enterprise and its current functions
encompass:
-    Seismic work
-    Exploration
-    Oilfield development
-    Developing and processing natural gas
-    Sale of crude oil to authorities/organizations designated by the
state
-    Operation and management of pipelines within Xinjiang
3.03     As in the case of other state owned petroleum entities, there was no
formal statute or decree relating to the creation, powers and functions of
KOC. As having a distinct juridical personality is a fundamental condition
for entering into a project agreement with the Bank, MOPI agreed to issue a
statute which clearly sets out the powers and functions of this entity.
Accordingly, a charter on KOC's legal status became effective on April 17,
1984.
C. Organization and Management
3.04     KOC's management consists of a president who is assisted by one
senior vice-president and three vice-presidents who are respectively in charge
of production, exploration and scientific research, administration and
finance, and coordination. KOC's functions are largely managerial with
specialized companies being responsible for various oilfield activities.
These companies are sub-units of KOC and not separate legal entities. The
oilfield is divided into four administrative units, with a production company
being responsible for oil production for each of these units. These companies
carry out drilling through the drilling company which in turn secures
specialized services i.e. logging, cementation, and other downhole services
from KOC's specialized companies established specifically for these
purposes. Surface construction is carried out by the surface construction
company. All work relating to exploration is the responsibility of the
Geological Exploration Department which functions under the chief geologist.
This department oversees the work of companies set up for undertaking
geophysical/geological surveys, drilling and well testing. The organization
chart for KOC is in Annex 3.01.
3.05     Each specialized company, follows the standard organization pattern,
namely, it is divided into brigades, and brigades in turn into teams. A
brigade consists of 10-15 specialists, who function as staff officers under
the brigade leader. The brigade leader is responsible for the teams under its
command for fulfilling the stipulated targets. The brigade is staffed with
professionals who have managerial responsibilities, and skilled workers man
the teams. A team typically consists of 50-100 persons with a team leader who
is an experienced skilled worker.
3.06     KOC is amongst the oldest operating oil companies in China, and has
in its ranks, some of the most experienced and disciplined petroleum
personnel. KOC's organizational structure, more or less, adheres to the
standard Chinese pattern; there are a number of companies, each responsible



- 14 -
for a specialized function. This permits build up of expertise and, by
placing the companies in a client-contractor relationship, ensures a satis-
factory performance level and quality control. In many ways this
organizational structure is not too dissimilar from the private industry which
relies on a host of specialized contractors to perform specific tasks. Thus
organizationally KOC is capable of carrying out its preassigned tasks.
3.07     The management is aware of its technical and organizational
problems. Like other oilfields in China, technical deficiencies arise on
accDunt of outdated equipment and technology. For example, in exploration of
especially complex structures, KOC is handicapped by its lack of modern
equipment for collecting and processing seismic data. Similarly, for the
recovery of heavy oil, it is not privy to the latest methods of thermal
recovery. Organizationally, there is a discernable premium on the achievement
of physical targets and absence of a similar emphasis on quality control.
Further, under the existing organizational pattern, KOC like other oil
companies in China, is directly responsible to MOPI. However, contact between
various oil companies is minimal and mobility of staff almost non-existent.
This insulation retards the transfer of technology from one oil field to
another and makes modernization of the oil industry so much more difficult.
The project, as designed, takes such limitations into account. Overall, there
is little doubt that KOC will be able to carry out the project with competence
and speed.
D. Companies Responsible for Project Implementation
3.08     KOC will have the overall responsibility for implementing the
project, except for the gas use study and heavy oil pilot project at Liaohe
which will be the responsibility of MOPI. The seismic work would be carried
out by local and expatriate seismic crews. Performance of the Chinese crews
has been satisfactory, particularly in mapping shallow horizons. However, for
undertaking geophysical work in complex areas, especially for mapping deeper
horizons and conducting three dimensional surveys, expatriate crews are needed
to supplement local expertise. Expatriate assistance would also be secured
for assisting in the processing of geophysical data. In addition, the
processing center at Urumqi would be appropriately upgraded to handle the
increased data inflow.
3.09     The Drilling Company will be responsible for undertaking all
exploratory and delineation drilling. It has a work force of 10,700 workers,
of which 865 are technicians and 250 are engineers. It currently operates 57
rigs. It is headed by a director who is assisted by one senior deputy
director and three deputy directors in charge of production and operation,
administration, and production support. The actual drilling is carried
through 5 production brigades which in turn are subdivided into 57 drilling
teams. Each drilling team has 4 crews, which operate in shifts, 24 hours a
day. A drilling team typically consists of 50-60 skilled workers and is
headed by a team leader who is a skilled worker with considerable
experience. Support for drilling operations is provided by similarly
constituted units which are responsible for mud engineering, installation,
transportation, equipment and supply, repair, etc. The organization chart of
the drilling company is at Annex 3.02. Performance of the drilling company
has been satisfactory; in 1982, it drilled 328 wells to an average depth of
1,800 meters. The total footage was over 600,000 meters and on average 6



- 15 -
wells were drilled per rig. Given the age of the equipment (most of the rigs
are ten years old) and the outdated technology these rigs incorporate,
performance of the drilling company is more than adequate. However, during
1982, 22% of the rig time was spent on maintenance and moving from one
location to the next. Furthermore, the supporting services such as coring,
testing and cementing were not up to the current petroleum industry
standards. Provision has, therefore, been made in the proposed project to
provide specialized drilling material and equipment and transport support to
KOC; this should considerably improve the operating efficiency of the company.
3.10     Production Company Number 2 (PCN2) will be responsible for
implementing the heavy oil pilot project in Karamay. It currently operates in
one subdivision of the Karamay oilfield and its production in 1982 was 2.1
million tons; which was produced from about 1,100 production wells. The
company is headed by a director who is assisted by three deputy directors in
charge of operations, welfare and administration, and has a workforce of 5,300
workers of which 204 are technicians and 43 engineers. Drilling and
completing the shallow heavy oil pilot wells and installing the surface
facilities will be carried out by PCN2 through various specialized companies
of the KOC. The design and monitoring of the steam injection and in-situ
combustion process will be accomplished by specialized consultants under the
overall supervision of PCN2. The organization chart of the company is at
Annex 3.03.
E. Financial/Accounting Practices
3.11     KOC follows the "Accounting System for State Enterprises" enacted by
GOC in 1953 and subsequently revised in 1960 and 1981. While the accounting
and financial arrangements of KOC are satisfactory in the context of China,
there are fundamental differences between some of KOC's practices and those of
commercially oriented petroleum enterprises (Annex 5.01). KOC maintains two
separate sets of accounts for its oilfield activities - one set for capital
construction and the other for production. Since these two sets of accounts
are not being consolidated, KOC's balance sheet for production does not
include construction work-in-progress. In order to provide an overall view of
KOC's financial performance and position, KOC's balance sheets for production
and capital construction have been consolidated for purposes of financial
appraisal.
F. Planning
3.12     Production and net income targets are established annually for KOC by
MOPI. KOC works out the detailed implementation plan and the annual budget
for operation and investment is usually finalized and approved by MOPI after
several iterations. While heavy emphasis is placed on the budget as a
controlling tool, KOC generally does not undertake financial planning beyond
one year. However, in the light of the rising cost trend at Karamay, it would
seem prudent for KOC to extend the horizon of financial planning beyond one
year. The financial plan would form a critical basis for KOC to evaluate
investment, control cost and make pricing recommendations to MOPI. It is,
therefore, recommended that KOC should reformulate its financial planning
based either within the existing financial set-up or on the development of a
new financial planning unit, with the objective of producing financial plans
for five years for its oilfield investment and operations. During



- 16 -
negotiations, an assurance was obtained from KOC that the financial statements
based on a rolling five year plan would be submitted to the Bank and discussed
annually with the Bank as part of the review of KOC's finances (para. 5.19).
3.1.3    Insofar as investment planning is concerned, the investment
evaluation criteria as applied by KOC are inadequate. Under the present
system, only payback period is taken into account for project evaluation and
there is no provision for analysis based on net present value and internal
rate of return. In addition, investment evaluation is based on financial cost
to the oilfield but not the economic cost to the country. In fact, the
costing system at KOC does not provide for the calculation of economic cost
(para. 5.05). With the view towards strengthening the financial management
system at KOC, the training component provided under the project would include
short courses on economic and financial analysis (para. 4.36). In addition,
the costing system at KOC would be strengthened to provide for the calculation
of economic costs (para. 5.05).
G. Internal Control System
3.14     Internal control procedures at KOC are generally adequate.  However,
KOC does not have at present an independent, comprehensive and systematic
cenl:ralized internal audit function. Control of fixed assets is performed by
the fixed assets section in the finance department; physical inventory of
material is carried out by the materials company in its various warehouses. A
financial discipline group, within the finance department at the bureau level,
is in charge of checking that the financial/accounting practices at KOC are in
linE! with the prescribed system of GOC. Such reviews are, however, achieved
on aLn ad-hoc basis, without a predetermined program and systematic audit
procedures. The financial discipline group is in part constrained by the
limited number of staff (presently only about three in total) and, for large
reviews, the group has to be supplemented by drawing upon the financial staff
from other units. Under the existing system, there is no provision for an
independent assessment of the effectiveness of KOC's internal control
system. The need for setting up a centralized and comprehensive internal
audit system was discussed with KOC. It would, however, take time for KOC to
fill its internal audit function with qualified and experienced staff. Under
the proposed project, training in internal auditing would be provided to the
financial staff at KOC (para. 4.36).
H. External Audit
3.15     Until recently, financial/accounting practices in China did not
provide for external auditing whose scope and depth were in conformity with
internationally accepted auditing standards. The responsibility of reviewing
the accounts of state enterprises in China was divided among the line ministry
(MOPI), Ministry of Finance, the People's Construction Bank and the People's
Bank of China. However, such reviews did not constitute an independent audit
of KOC's financial statements. In June 1983, an independent audit agency was
set up and the Auditor-General appointed. The State Audit Agency is at par
with a national ministry, reports directly to the State Council and is charged
with auditing the accounts of government departments and state-owned
enterprises. The State Audit Agency is in the process of formulating auditing
regulations as well as recruiting/training of the audit staff. The Bank has
assisted this process by conducting a seminar in China on the requirements and



- 17 -
guidelines for audit of Bank projects. In addition, technical assistance is
provided by bilateral and UN sources and the recently approved Technical
Cooperation Credit (No. 1412-CHA). Under this project, US$1 million has been
allocated to assist the State Audit Agency in training staff to audit Bank-
financed projects. In the context of this project, during negotiations, KOC
agreed to maintain separate accounts for the project. In addition, the
project accounts and KOC's accounts would be independently audited and the
audited financial statements sent to the Bank within six months after the end
of each fiscal year. KOC would consolidate its accounts for oilfield capital
construction and production in submitting its financial statements to the Bank
in order to provide an overall view of KOC's financial performance and
position.
I. Incentive System
3.16     Bonuses are distributed only when the targets for both production and
net income are reached. This differs from the incentive system in some other
oilfields in China whereby bonuses are distributed if at least one of the
various targets is met and the bonus amount simply varies with the number of
targets reached. Under the two tier pricing system (para. 5.03), MOPI has set
KOC's production target to slightly below the level it is expected to achieve
(para. 5.14). As a result, the production target appears to be more of a
mechanism to help maintain KOC's profitability than as a performance
yardstick. The net income target, on the other hand, is used by MOPI to
measure KOC's performance in regard to production and cost control. The
present incentive system, which was instituted recently as part of China's
economic readjustment program, represents the first step towards the right
direction. The maximum annual bonus for overall KOC is set by MOPI at 2
months of KOC's average worker salary. For purposes of bonus distribution,
KOC's staff is divided into three categories: (i) production workers; (ii)
service workers; and (iii) office staff.  Workers directly involved with
production receive the largest amount of bonus while the office staff are at
the lowest end of the bonus scale.
J. Insurance
3.17     KOC presently insures a portion of its assets with the People's
Insurance Company of China. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained
from KOC that it would make satisfactory arrangement for the insurance of the
project works, including coverage for equipment and materials in transit.
IV. TILE PROJECT
A. Background
4.01     The Junggar Basin lies about 3,000 km west of Beijing in a sparsely
populated desert area. It covers an area of 130,000 km2 and is part of the
Xinjiang Autonomous Region. The search for oil commenced in the late 19th
century. The first discovery was made at Dushanzi in 1897. Systematic
exploration started only in 1953, under the Sino-Soviet Technical Cooperation
Agreement. Initial operations included drilling of some deep wells in the
vicinity of Dushanzi and Urumqi. Thereafter, the focus shifted to the
northwestern part of the basin (Karamay), an area well known for its extensive
surface oil shows.



- 18 -
4.02     The first commercial oil discovery was made in 1955.  Since then, in
the area of Karamay, over 20 oilfields have been discovered and developed.
The fields are aligned along a narrow structural zone about 100 km long, which
trends northeastward from Karamay. Current annual production is about 4
million tons of oil; only a minor amount of gas is produced. Of the existing
proven reserves, recoverable reserves of light oil are estimated at 30-40
million tons. Additional reserves likely to be established by the proposed
exploration and delineation program are 300 million tons of light oil, and
about one billion tons of heavy oil-in-place. Heavy oil could possibly yield
significant volumes of commercial oil despite the expected low productivity of
the fields.
B. Project Objectives
4.0:3    The project has three broad objectives.  Firstly, it will support an
expanded exploration program in the Karamay oil belt and its southern
extension which will include seismic surveys with six parties for two years
and drilling some 370 exploration and appraisal wells. This massive
exploration program is expected to add some 150 million tons of light oil--in-
place in the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area, in addition to another 200 million tons of
oil-*in-place in the Karamay area. It is an essential component of the plan to
increase production to 7 million tons by 1990 as projected by KOC.
4.04     Secondly, this project aims at evaluating the potential of heavy oil
in the Karamay and Liaohe oilfields. This would be achieved by drilling
exploration and delineation wells for firming up the extent and charac-
teristics of the various reservoirs. In addition, pilot projects would be
designed to test alternate methods for thermal recovery and select the best
for fieldwide application. While this component is not expected to add
significantly to oil production during the 80's, it should provide a sound
basis on which thermal recovery projects could be developed during the 90's.
It should also provide a framework in which the feasibility of similar
projects can be evaluated.
4.05     Thirdly, and most importantly, the object of the Bank's participation
is to provide technical assistance. The project provides for critically
needed technical inputs for KOC's overall exploration and development program,
including modern equipment for logging, cementing, fracturing, etc.; several
studies to improve the understanding of the oil habitat to better manage and
deve:Lop light reservoirs; upgrading of the seismic data processing center;
establishing a training center for skilled workers and a computer center to
improve oilfield management; and above all, maintaining through supervision,
the implementation and dissemination of new technologies. In addition, with
the view towards focusing GOC's attention on the optimization of gas usage<,
the project provides for the undertaking of a detailed study regarding
potential demand for the gas from South China Sea and the viability of
supplying natural gas to the potential market.
4.06     As a part of the overall program to stem the anticipated decline of
onshore oil production in China, it is planned to increase the output from the
Karamay area to 7 million tons by 1990. The mission believes that this is a
reasonable objective. The KOC area can be divided into three regions (IBRD
Map No. 17771R):



- 19 -
(a)  the Karamay area proper where oil production has been
established and no major difficulty is anticipated in securing
additional production;
(b) the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area where no production has been
established so far, but exploration has delineated 15 areas
which KOC considers highly prospective for oil, and in five of
these areas oil was found by test wells; and
(c) the southern portion of the Karamay producing area (the
Hongshanzui-Chepaizi area) for which no meaningful oil and gas
expectations can yet be quantified, however eventual hydrocarbon
resources could be a multiple larger than those at Karamay
proper.
C. Geology and Prospects
4.07     The Junggar Basin is a structurally depressed area filled with
sediments of Carboniferous to Tertiary age which reach thicknesses in excess
of 10,000 m. The Tien Shan Mountain system in the south separates the Junggar
Basin from the much larger Tarim Basin. Mountainous areas of lesser
importance fringe the basin in the northwest, northeast and east. Geological
exploration has shown that the Junggar Basin consists of several structural
units; all are prospective for oil and gas. Each unit has its own hydrocarbon
habitat, so different methods and techniques need to be applied for systematic
basinwide exploration. (For a brief review of the geology of Junggar basin,
see Annex 4.01).
(1) Karamay Area
4.08     The Karamay trend is about 300 km long and 20-30 km wide.  So far
exploration has been restricted to a narrow belt, mainly northeast of Karamay,
some 100 km long and 20 km wide. This zone which is severely folded and
faulted faces a major depression toward the east. Hydrocarbons generated in
this basin migrated toward its edges where they were trapped in suitable
geological structures. In the Karamay area oil has been retained in various
geological horizons and in a multitude of trapping structures. Two types of
trapping domains are of particular importance:
(a) Carboniferous to Triassic rocks, being severely folded and
faulted; reservoirs are mainly sandstones and conglomerates;
carbonate reservoirs are subordinate and occur mostly in the
Carboniferous. Oil which occur in this trapping domain have
specific gravities between 0.8 and 0.9; mostly they can be
recovered by means of conventional production techniques;
(b) in contrast, the overlying Jurassic and Cretaceous sediments are
practically unstructured. They cover the older formations in a
sheet-like manner. Both horizons contain large volumes of heavy
oil (over 1 billion tons oil-in-place). This heavy oil has
probably originated from light oil by transformation caused by
bacterial action after it had migrated from deeper horizons into
the shallow Jurassic/Cretaceous reservoirs.



- 20 -
4.09     Twenty fields have been discovered and put into production with a
yearly output of 4 million tons of light oil. At first it was thought that
the oilfields were controlled by a single fault system; in the late 70's with
the introduction of digital seismic acquisition methods and advanced
processing, it became clear that the fault trend in fact consisted of a series
of parallel fault systems. Exploration in this producing area now focuses on
evaluating the significance of the additional geological trapping conditions
so identified. Oil-in-place is believed to be in the order of about 200
million tons of light oil and additional exploration is expected to add
perhaps 200 million tons. It should be possible to recover 25% of this oil.
(2) Wuerhe-Hungchiba Area
4.10     In the Wuerhe-Hungchiba region, recent seismic data have defined the
continuation of the Karamay fault trends. In this area, however,
compressional forces forming the Halalaar Mountains (see IBRD Map No. 17771R)
have been much stronger than in the Karamay area. This has resulted in a much
greater structural deformation of the potential reservoirs in this area,
making prospect appraisal much more difficult than at Karamay. To cope with
these special problems, KOC needs to introduce new exploration techniques with
which its technicians are not yet familiar, such as three dimensional seismic
acquisition and processing. Also, in order to overcome drilling problems
which are caused by geological conditions, special equipment and completion
techniques are required. KOC expects to find 400 million tons of oil-in-
place; however, stochastic analysis based on examination of parameters
governing origination, migration and trapping of the oil in this area
indicates that it is better to assume a probability of finding 100-150 milliorn
tonIs oil-in-place.
(3) Hongshanzui-Chepaizi Area
4.11     The Hongshanzui-Chepaizi area is practically unexplored.  Shallow
core holes have encountered indications of oil in several geological
horizons. Regional seismic lines and sparse gravity data suggest that
important oil trapping structures could be present. Furthermore, some 100 km
south of Karamay a new, potentially prospective basin has been identified.
Preliminary investigation based on data obtained from exploration in the
Urumqi-Dushanzi area would indicate that large scale oil and gas generation
could have taken place here.
D. Project Design
(1) Exploration Program
4.12     The project has been designed to optimize the next steps in each of
the prospective areas, which are in varying stages of exploration maturity.
In the Karamay producing area KOC will continue exploration with conventional
means.  Trapping mechanisms are well known and can be recognized on the
seismic data by the currently operational crews. The available seismic grid
will be narrowed under this project and many pre-1980 lines will be reshot in
order to get better control over the deeper structures which were found in
some wells to be potential producers. During negotiations, an assurance was
obtained from KOC that it would review with the Bank its exploration program
under the project.



- 21 -
4.13     In the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area KOC faces much more serious geological
and technical difficulties. Objective horizons vary strongly in composition;
hence, zones of good porosities and permeabilities show an irregular
distribution. Trapping structures are plentiful but due to the severe
geological disturbances, adequate mapping of their location and extent has in
many cases been beyond the current capabilities of KOC's technicians. Permian
and Carboniferous targets are mostly deep; and require high level of expertise
in mapping the structures, drilling and completing such deep holes. In
addition, most prospective horizons need fracturing to stimulate production;
stimulation techniques require equipment of superior quality to that available
at present with KOC.
4.14     The exploration/delineation program of the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area
would follow a stepwise approach and will include the following major
elements:
(a) Execution of high resolution seismic survey to better map the
deeper horizons where the bulk of light oil occurs. Agreement
was reached with KOC that two foreign crews will be contracted
for this work and that the focus will be on appropriate
acquisition parameters and seismic processing. A total of 2100
line kilometers will be needed. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that KOC will review and agree with the Bank
on the seismic program, including location, shooting parameters
and processing methodology.
(b) In parallel with seismic work, KOC will initiate and carry out a
stratigraphic and structural study which will focus on
composition and distribution of reservoir bodies as identified
in previously drilled wells. Use will be made of all well logs,
core data and seismic data. Al additional component will be an
investigation of the extent and nature of fracture patterns
affecting the various formations. It will be demonstrated that
in several instances fractures can contribute substantially to
well productivities.
(c) In a separate evaluation to be undertaken with Bank staff, KOC
will extend its information base regarding the main oil
geological parameters like source rocks, their quality and
regional occurrence, migration of oil and gas, development of
geological trapping structures and presence or absence of cap
rocks.  Information on these parameters 1Yill be used as an input
to an evaluation procedure (RASP model)-  as adapted by the Bank
for rapid assessment of oil expectations. The output of this
model will have a dual use: (i) it will highlight the main
exploration risks; and (ii) will allow comparison of various
prospective areas. (For a comprehensive discussion of the RASP
approach, see Annex 4.02).
1/ Resource Appraisal Simulation for Petroleum: a computer program to assess
an area's hydrocarbon endowment based on available geological data.



- 22 -
(d)  After integration of the presently available data and the future
seismic interpretation and geological studies, KOC will drill
some 80-100 exploration/delineation wells. The first series of
wells will be drilled preferably where reservoir development can
be reasonably well predicted and where structures can be mapped
with confidence. With increased acquisition and processing
experience and the benefit of the studies as outlined above, KOC
will attempt drilling more complex and deeper structures for a
full evaluation of the prospectiveness of the project area.
(e)  This first drilling phase will be followed whenever necessary by
additional detailed seismic, most likely three dimensional (3-D;)
surveys, to define the extent of oil and gas discoveries. KOC
has agreed to present to the Bank each quarter the outcome of
seismic work and the results of the drilling operations in
addition to their proposal for future exploration work and/tor
development plan for any discoveries.
4.1.5    In the Hongshanzui-Chepaizi area, covering some 6000 km2, exploration
would first focus on the delineation of Karamay-type oil traps in the north.
These would be small and of irregular occurrence. Thereafter, exploration
will proceed toward the southern area where traps may be larger and arranged
in a structural style different from Karamay.
4.16     Geophysical acquisition and processing need thus to focus on shallow
complex structures and deep features where subtle trapping conditions may
become increasingly important. One expatriate high resolution seismic crew
will be contracted for this area. If this seismic survey reveals structures
with potential for hydrocarbon trapping, up to 10 wells may be drilled here.
The application of an evaluation procedures as outlined in Annex 4.02 assist
in arriving at a judicious selection of such structures. As in the Wuerhe-
Hungchiba Area, exploration would be carried out in a step-like manner.
(2) Heavy Oil Pilot
4.17     The oil-in-place reserves of heavy oil in the Karamay area are
estimated at about one billion tons. The extent and characteristics of the
various deposits have yet to be ascertained through drilling of some 160
exploration and delineation wells. Heavy oil is present at depths ranging
froml few meters to 500 meters, its specific gravity ranges from 0.97 to 0.92,
and its viscosity ranges from 250,000 centipoise (almost immobile) to about a
thousand centipoise at reservoir temperature. Pilot projects conducted so
far, using both steam flooding and in-situ combustion have not been
successful. Similarly, the Liaohe oilfield has large reserves of heavy oil at
depths ranging from 1000 to 3,000 meters. Some pilots have been conducted but
they have not as yet resulted in commercial applications. The lack of success
attending some of these projects was due to a variety of reasons; (a)
inappropriate selection of the type of oil reservoir to be tested; (b) poor
monitoring practice; (c) inadequacy of equipment; and (d) non-availability of
the appropriate technology. Considerable advances have been made in the
technology of thermal recovery which could with advantage be used for
exploiting heavy oil reserves in China (see Annex 4.06).



- 23 -
4.18     Competent designing, selection of appropriate reservoirs, use of
state-of-art technology and careful monitoring are essential for undertaking a
successful pilot project. At the same time, methods of refining heavy oil
would need to be studied, the value of fractions it would yield assessed and
means of transporting it out of Karamay and Liaohe evaluated. The results of
such a techno-economic study would need to be integrated with the results of
pilot projects prior to selecting method(s) and heavy oil reserves for a full
scale development. There are a few oil companies (Getty, Occidental, Chevron,
Shell, etc.) which have extensive experience and access to the latest
technology in heavy oil. Efforts will be made to secure technical assistance
from one of these companies. In the event such a tie-up does not materialize,
KOC will be asked to appoint consultants, acceptable to the Bank, for
assisting it in the aforementioned tasks. Further, if the results of the
techno-economic study and the pilot project are positive, consultant (or the
oil company) would assist MOPI and/or KOC in designing a project for fieldwide
application. MOPI and KOC have agreed that the study would be completed by
December 31, 1986 and the design of pilots by March 31, 1985. The results of
the study/design and the consequent action plan would be agreed upon with the
Bank.
E. Project Description
4.19     The proposed project will consist of the following components:
(1) Exploration and Appraisal Program
(a)  conducting conventional, high resolution and three dimensional
seismic surveys with three local and three foreign crews for a
period of two years;
(b)  drilling about 100 exploration/appraisal wells in the Wuerhe-
Hungchiba area, about 10 exploration wells in the Hongshanzui-
Chepaizi area and about 260 appraisal/development wells in the
rest of Karamay area to establish light oil potential;
(c)  improving oil field logistics by providing transport and
oilfield equipment (cementing, fracturing, workover, coring,
testing, laboratory, formation and production logging) necessary
to support the exploration and delineation program;
(d)  improving KOC's processing capability by upgrading Urumqi
seismic processing computer center to accommodate future load of
high resolution and three-dimensional seismic surveys; and
(e)  establishing a computer center at Karamay for storing and
processing of oilfield technical, administrative and financial
data.
(2) Heavy Oil Recovery
(a) designing of pilot projects for thermal recovery of heavy oil in
(i) Karamay and (ii) Liaohe oilfield;



- 24 -
(b) undertaking techno-economic studies to evaluate the refining
methods of heavy oil, the value of fractions it would yield and
the means of transporting it out of Karamay and Liaohe;
(c) drilling and completion of the necessary injection-cum-
production and observation wells, installation of
surface/subsurface facilities including steam generators, air
compressors and instrumentation and provision of equipment and
material for heavy oil laboratory;
(d) drilling of exploration/delineation wells in Karamay (160) and
Liaohe to firm-up the extent and characteristics of the various
reservoirs; and
(e) monitoring the performance of the pilot projects and designing
optimum processes for field wide application.
(3) Training
establishing a training center for skilled workers and equipping
it with necessary audio-visual materials, training equipment and
library. In addition, training of professionals through short
local courses or foreign study tours to appropriate
institutions;
(4) Studies
provision of experts and services to perform studies in the
following field of activities: (a) a stratigraphic and
structural study in Karamay with the purpose of outlining the
most prospective areas; (b) reservoir engineering study for
tight conglomerate reservoir (Wuerhe); (c) devising training
curricula and training methods for skilled workers and
professionals; (d) a study on KOC's costing (for details see
para. 5.06); and (e) a study for utilization of gas from South
China Sea.
F. Project Costs
4.20     The proposed project is estimated to cost an equivalent of US$753.5
million, including physical and price contingencies, of which US$273.3 million
or 36% represent the foreign exchange component. A physical contingency of
10% was applied to the local and foreign costs. The basic cost estimate is
derived from past costs in the Karamay area and from budget quotations and
prizes of material and equipment imported in early 1984. Price contingencies
botlh for local and foreign costs have been assumed at 7.5% for 1984, 7% for
1985 and 6% for 1986 and 1987, amounting to 17% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies. No price contingencies have been added to the 3-D seismic
survey costs, since a fixed price contract for this work is already in effect.
4.21     It is noted that the overall project cost is much lower than similar
projects in other developing countries due to : (a) the extremely low level of
salaries in China compared to the international industry standard; and (b)
extensive experience in planning and implementing similar projects in
Karamay. In estimating the cost of consultant services for special studies
and technical assistance, 180 man-months have been assumed.



- 25 -
4.22      The estimated project cost, including taxes and import duties of 15%,
is shown in the following table:
Summary of Project Cost
Yuan Million              US$ Million            Foreign
1.  Exploration              Local   F.E.   Total        Local   F.E.   Total   as % of
total
Seismic surveys                39.6   47.5    87.1         20.0   24.0    44.0        55
Seismic data processing        15.8   15.8    31.6          8.0    8.0    16.0        50
Exploration/                  590.0  261.4   851.4        298.0  132.0   430.0         31
Delineation wells        645.4  324.7   970.1        326.0  164.0   490.0         33
2. Heavy Oil
Feasibility studies
& pilots                   5.0   16.8    21.8          2.5    8.5    11.0         77
Production/injection &
observation wells           5.9    5.9    11.8         3.0    3.0       6.0       50
10.9   22.7    33.6         5.5   11.5    17.0         68
3. Supporting Facilities
& Services
Transport equipment             1.4    9.9    11.3          0.7    5.0       5.7       88
Laboratories                    0.6    2.0       2.6        0.3    1.0       1.3       77
Computer center                 2.0    8.9    10.9          1.0    4.5       5.5       82
4.0   20.8    24.8         2.0   10.5    12.5         83
4.  Imported Equipment         12.0   53.4    65.4          6.0   27.0    33.0        82
5. Training & Technical
Assistance
Training                        2.0    4.0       6.0        1.0    2.0       3.0       67
Studies                         2.0    5.9       7.9        1.0    4.0      5.0       80
Total Base Cost          676.3  431.5  1107.8        341.5  219.0   560.5         39
Physical contingencies         67.4   42.2   109.6         34.0   21.0    55.0         38
Price congingencies           135.6   65.4   201.0         68.5   33.0   101.5         39
Total Project Cost       879.3  539.1  1418.4        444.0  273.0   717.0         38
Front end fee                    -      0.6      0.6         -      0.3      0.3      100
Charge on Use of Foreign
Exchange!                 71.7      -      71.7       36.2      -      36.2        -
Total financing required   951.0  539.7  1490.7           480.2  273.3   753.5         36
1/  Based on an internal settlement rate of US$1.0 = Y2.8, KOC would have to
pay a premium equivalent to 41% of the Bank loan.



- 26 -
G. Project Implementation
4,.23    KOC will have the overall responsibility for implementing the
project, except for the gas use study and the heavy oil pilot project at:
Liaohe which will be the responsibility of MOPI. The exploration and the
delineation drilling and the drilling for heavy oil will be carried out by the
Drilling Company. The Production Company No. 2 will be responsible for
implementing the heavy oil pilot component. Other services required will be
provided by the construction, material and transportation, and other
companies. The seismic program will be designed by the geological and
exploration department which will subsequently supervise it. The field
acquisition will be carried out by Chinese and foreign crews. In addition
expatriate assistance will be needed in the processing and interpretation of
geophysical data, designing and monitoring the heavy oil pilots and conducting
geological, reservoir and gas use studies. Paras. 3.08 to 3.10 provide
details of the organization and competence of the various executing companies
of KOC.
4.24     Project Implementation Schedule.  KOC's specialized sub-units will be
undertaking implementation of the respective project components, the Drilling
Company for the drilling operations, the Production Company No. 2 for the
heavy oil component (para. 3.10) and the other service companies
(construction, materials, transport-ation, logging, etc.) for providing the
necessary support services. The project implementation schedule is at
Annex 4.07. All project components are scheduled to be completed by June 30,
1939. Seismic surveys are expected to start around mid-1984 and continue till
mid-1986. Likewise the upgrading of the seismic computer processing center
will be effected during that period. Drilling in the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area
could start as early as the end of 1984 pending the acquisition, processing
and interpretation of seismic work. Drilling in the Hongshanzui-Chepaizi may
nor start before the beginning of 1986 and only after seismic surveys and
geological studies have been completed. It is expected that the total
drilling program under the project (about 530 exploratory and delineation
wells) will take about four years to complete, (i.e.) by 1988. Initiation of
the heavy oil thermal recovery pilots is expected in the first quarter of
1985, after the necessary consultancy services and the required material and
equipment have been procured. Though some useful data will become available
from the pilot operations within three years from its initiation, the full
evaluation of the heavy oil recovery pilot would not be complete before mid-
1989.
H. Project Financing
4.25     It is proposed that Bank finances foreign exchange cost to the extent
of $100.3 million (including $0.3 million front-end fee), which will represent
37% of the foreign exchange cost and 13% of the project cost. The Bank loan
would finance seismic work, upgrading of seismic processing center, modern
oilfield equipment, pilot projects for heavy oil recovery and technical
assistance. The foreign exchange expenditure not covered by Bank loan relates
largely to tubulars and other such equipment for which suppliers' credit could
be available. This category of equipment is secured at a national level for
all state oil companies. In the event GOC cannot or chooses not to secure
suppliers' credit (para. 2.21), it will finance it out of its own resources.
The loan will be for a period of 20 years, inclusive of a grace period of five



- 27 -
years. The loan will be made to GOC and funds other than those required for
undertaking the gas use study and the pilot project at Liaohe ($4.1 million)
will be onlent to KOC on the same terms and conditions. State Council
approval of the loan agreement and conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement
between GOC and KOC, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. While the foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOC, KOC
would be required to pay a substantial premium (41%) for securing a foreign
exchange loan. In addition to a loan agreement which will be entered into
with GOC, it is proposed to enter into a separate project agreement with
KOC. All local costs equivalent to $480 million (Y951 million) will be
provided by GOC/KOC.
I. Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan
4.26     The detailed breakdown for the allocation of the Bank loan is at
Annex 4.04. Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of consultants' services and training programs; 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of the imported materials and equipment; and 100% of
the ex-factory cost of materials and equipment supplied from local sources
under ICB.
4.27     Disbursements of the Bank loan is expected as follows:
Disbursement Schedule
(US$Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year             1985         1986       1987        1988
Incremental                    8           32         54           6.3
Cumulative                     8           40         94        100.3
4.28     A detailed breakdown of the disbursement schedule is set out in Annex
4.05.  The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1988.  In the
absence of a standard disbursement profile applicable to this type of project,
the disbursement schedule is based on a three-month time lag between the time
the expenditure is estimated to have incurred and the time the equivalent
funds are disbursed from the loan. A high rate of disbursement is expected in
FY86 since most of the equipment and services will be procured in that year.
J. Procurement
4.29     Drilling and construction work would be carried out by force account
(KOC's own force). This practice has shown to be cost effective because KOC's
personnel are experienced and competent to carry out the work and because
salaries in China are extremely low compared with international levels.
Seismic surveys will be conducted by three foreign crews financed by the Bank
and three local crews financed by KOC. Goods financed under the proposed Bank
loan would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines, except in cases where limited
international bidding (LIB) or direct purchase are more appropriate. For
seismic survey and associated computer services, LIB procedures were followed
by inviting proposals from a large field of reputable and experienced firms



- 28 -
who had eithner prior experience or some exposure to the working conditions in
China. Under !CB, local manufacturers would be permitted to participate where
appropriate and be eligible for a 15% margin of preference or the prevailing
custom duties, whichevrer is lower, in the evaluation of bids. A limited
number of items will be procured through direct purchase. Consultants/
Specialists will be selected pursuant to the guidelines for the use of
consultants by the Bank's borrowers. In view of the long mobilization time
required for seismic crews, the long lead time required for the approval of
export license for seismic processing computer, and the need to initiate
geophysical work by the spring of 1984 to assist in the location of
exploration wells, advance contracting for seismic surveys ($18.4 million) and
seismic processing computer ($7.7 million) was arranged and retroactive
financing under the loan would be permitted for up to $3.0 million (3% of Bank
loan) for expenditures incurred between the date of end of appraisal (10/1/83)
and date of loan signing. It is foreseen that total disbursement under LIB
would be about $35 million (35% of the Bank loan). In addition, direct
purchase will be agreed for spares, equipment and instrumentation costing less
than US$150,000 up to an aggregate of US$3.5 million (3.5% of the Bank
loan). All bia packages having a value of US$500,000 and above would be
subject to Bank review prior to contract award; other packages would be
reviewed subsequently. In view of the difficulties and delays faced in the
processing of the procurement documents for the first two petroleum projects,
there is the need to improve interagency coordination for efficient
procurement under this project. Towards this end, a detailed procurement
schedule would be prepared and sent to the Bank by the end of May 1984. This
schedule and the consequent steps for initiating project implementation would
be reviewed between the Bank and representatives from the concerned agencies
(MOPI, KOC and CNTIC) by the end of June 1984. The outline of the terms of
reference for the studies was discussed and agreed at negotiations.



- 29 -
4.30     The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
(US$ Million)
Project Element                          Procurement Method                Total
ICB     LCB      Other    N.A.    Cost
Civil works                             -        -        16.6      -      16.6
Seismic survey & upgrading
of processing facilities              -        -       66.0       -      66.0
_       -       (26.1)     -    (26.1)
Well drilling & completion              -        -       545.1      -    545.1
Drilling Equipment
Workover rigs                     11.1       -        2.7       -      13.8
(11.1)     -          -       _    (11.1)
Fracturing cementation &          24.9       -         -        -     24.9
logging units                  (24.9)     -          -        -    (24.9)
Specialized drilling tools,        4.6      -          -        -      4.6
coring & testing equip.         (4.6)     -          _        _     (4.6)
Transport equipment                    6.9       -         0.6      -       7.5
(6.9)     -          -       _      (6.9)
Laboratory equipment                    1.7      -          -       -       1.7
(1.7)     -          _       _      (1.7)
Computers                              5.0       -         1.0      -       6.0
(5.0)     -          -       -      (5.0)
Heavy oil pilots including
equipment & materials               10.7       -        6.4       -      17.1
(10.7)     -          -       -    (10.7)
Technical assistance
Heavy oil feasibility study
& technical support               -       -         5.2       -      5.2
-       -        (4.0)     -      (4.0)
Other studies & training            -        -        8.5               8.5
-       -        (5.0)     -      (5.0)
Total                  64.9       -      652.1       -    717.0
(64.9)     _       (35.1)     -   (100.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
K. Technical Studies
(1) Reservoir Engineering
4.31     The Wuerhe area in the Karamay field contains an estimated probable
and possible oil-in-place of about 85 million tons. The producing formations
are extremely tight sandstones. Several wells have been drilled in a small
development pilot and they encountered a host of production problems. In order
to efficiently develop these reserves, it would be necessary to study (a) log
interpretation, correlation between and delineation of tight (about one
millidarcy) conglomeratic sand; (b) well spacing, optimum production rates,
water injection along with development and monitoring program thereof; and (c)
wells completion and production stimulation techniques. Reservoir engineering



- 30 -
study will be financed under the project, the results of which will be useful
not only for the Wuerhe area but for the development of other prospective
reservoirs having similar tight sands. KOC has agreed that a study for this
purpose, will be carried out with the assistance of qualified expatriate
consultants. The study would be completed by December 31, 1985 and the
results of the study would be reviewed with the Bank and an action plan agreed
upon. Efforts will be made to disemminate the results of the study and
recommendations to the extent they are replicable.
(2) Geological Study
4.32     In order to give greater focus and direction to its exploration
program, KOC would need to carry out a stratigraphic and structural study
which will investigate the composition and distribution of reservoir and
bodies. The basis for the study will be well logging, core data and seismic
data. An additional component will be the examination of reservoir structure
pattern, as these have a significant bearing on well productivities. KOC
agreed to carry out this study with the assistance of expatriate consultants,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. It is expected that the
study will be completed by December 31, 1986 and the results of the study and
the consequent course of action reviewed and agreed upon by the Bank.
(3) Gas Use Study
4.3:3    Recent offshore exploration has resulted in significant gas
discoveries in China. The oil discovery made by Japan China Oil Development
Corporation (JC Oil) in the southwestern part of the Bohai Bay was reported to
have a fairly high gas oil ratio. A gas discovery of significant magnitude
had been made south of Hainan Island by ARCO. Oil development plans
considered by JC Oil had no provision for the use of associated gas, except
for possible reinjection. It appeared that China had not considered
associated gas as a significant potential source of primary energy and may
have underestimated the potential importance of gas as a domestic source of
energy. This situation coexisted with a rapidly increasing level of liquid
hydrocarbon consumption. With the view towards optimizing gas usage, the
proposed project would provide for a study for utilization of gas from South
China Sea. This gas utilization study would, inter alia, undertake a market
survey, identify potential demand for natural gas, rank gas uses in terms of
priority, relate end users with sources of supply and compare the economic
advantage of utilizing gas domestically over exporting it as liquefied natural
gas. It is critical to commission such a study early, for potential sources
of gas supply have been identified, and the possibility of oil discoveries
(and therefore of additional availability of associated gas) is considered to
be high. Further, unlike oil, in order to build the necessary absorptive
capacity for gas use within the economy not only requires substantial
investment but also relatively longer lead time. MOPI agreed to carry out
this study with the assistance of consultants, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. It is expected that the study will be completed by
December 31, 1985 and the results of the study and the consequent course of
action agreed with the Bank. Separately, GOC has commissioned a gas use study
in Bohai area.



- 31 -
L. Training
4.34     Training facilities currently available in the Karamay oilfield (a
few courses of junior trade school level) are clearly inadequate. It is
therefore proposed to finance a training center under this project. It will
be equipped with the necessary audiovisual training aids, laboratories,
teaching materials and other facilities necessary for imparting training
envisaged under the program. It is anticipated, that every year over 1000
skilled workers will be trained and the training center will provide: (a)
basic training for skilled workers including courses in drilling, production,
well logging, cementing, mud chemistry, instrumentation, pipe fitting,
welding, etc., (b) periodic refresher courses to ensure that the workers keep
abreast of latest technology and techniques, and (c) language training
especially for specialists selected for foreign training. In addition, short
courses on financial and economic analysis, as well as internal auditing,
would be provided to the planning and financial staff (paras. 3.13 and 3.14).
4.35     In addition to the formal training in the center, on-the-job training
will be provided for both skilled and professional workers through (i)
professionals working closely with consultants engaged in the various studies
and the technical assistance program included in the proposed project; and
(ii) professionals/skilled workers functioning under the supervision of
expatriates hired through the service contract to operate and maintain the
equipment supplied under the project. Further, KOC has agreed to appoint
consultants to design training curricula and assist the training center in
evolving appropriate teaching materials and methods. KOC expects to appoint
these consultants no later than March 31, 1985, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, review its finding with the Bank and agree upon a
course of action.
M. Computer Center
4.36     The existing computer facilities at Karamay are inadequate.  The
proposed project would provide for the establishment of a computer center at
Karamay for storing and processing of oilfield technical, administrative and
financial data. A Bank consultant would assist in the design of the computer
system and prepare a requirement sheet to be used as a basis for soliciting
bids for hard and software.
N. Transportation Requirement
4.37     Current local consumption at Xinjiang is about 2.5 million tons
p.a. The surplus, some 1.5 million tons, is transported out of Urumqi by
train to the refinery at Lanzhou (Gansu Province). As local consumption is
not likely to grow significantly, most of the incremental production from the
Karamay would need to be transported out of Urumqi by train, at least over the
medium term. In the event the surplus oil to Lanzhou exceeds the refinery
capacity which at present is about 3 million tons p.a., the refinery would
need to be expanded and/or a portion of the oil would have to be transported
further to other refineries which have idle capacity. During negotiations,
GOC stated its intention to carry out the necessary study for transporting oil
from Karamay out of Xinjiang taking account of KOC's exploration results and
development strategy.



- 32 -
0. Ecology
4.38     The Karamay field is located in a desolate, hilly terrain on the
northern edge of the Gobi Desert. With the exception of few oasis and valleys
situated away from the oil belt, the area is very sparsely populated by some
nomadic tribes. Oil exploration and production activities have been carried
out throughout the last thirty years with no adverse effect on the
environment. The exploration and development component under this project
would follow the same previous practices. It is difficult to assess the
amotunt and toxicity of gases arising from applying in-situ combustion in the
heavy oil pilot. However this element will be properly monitored during the
pilot operation. Experience from the heavy oil pilot operations will be
incorporated in the eventual fieldwide applications.
P. Reporting Requirement
4.39     KOC agreed to forward to the Bank quarterly reports summarizing: (a)
kilometers of seismic line shot in the Wuerhe-Hungchiba and the Hongshanzui-
Chepaizi areas; (b) drilling progress and test results for exploratory and
appraisal wells in the Wuerhe-Hungchiba or the Hongshanzui-Chepaizi area; (c)
the progress made in various technical and financial studies provided under
the project; (d) progress on the design, implementation and the results of the
pilot project for heavy oil; (e) progress on procurement and disbursement
matters and (f) update on project cost.
4.40     In addition, KOC will make a report every six months on:  (a) the
amount, quality and interpretation of the seismic data recorded in the project
area; (b) results and interpretation thereof from exploratory or appraisal
wells in the project area; this should include information on stratigraphy,
lithology, reservoir permeability and porosity as well as results from
production tests; (c) results and interpretation thereof from heavy oil pilot
tests; and (d) plans for further seismic acquisition, drilling and testing for
the next six months. The exact contents and format of these reports were
disctussed and agreed at negotiations. Furthermore, KOC agreed to prepare a
Project Completion Report and submit the report to the Bank no later than six
months after the loan closing date.
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Introduction
5.01     As a state-owned enterprise, KOC is bound by the financial
regulations established by GOC. While the company enjoys considerable
operational autonomy, it is far more constrained in financial autonomy.
Specifically: (a) KOC's output is marketed as directed and at prices set by
the Government; (b) GOC sets KOC's annual production and net income targets,
and (c) KOC's operational and investment budget is approved by the
Government. A financial appraisal of KOC has been concentrated on costs,
internal cash generation, investment and related financing arrangements,
internal control (para. 3.14) and incentive system (para. 3.16). KOC has
performed in a financially responsible manner within the Chinese system; its
finances have been satisfactory thus far and are expected to remain so in the



- 33 -
future. However, with the view towards optimizing operational efficiency and
management decision-making, the financial management sytem at KOC would need
to be strengthened. Under the proposed project, the Bank would seek to
initiate significant steps towards achieving this financial objective,
including a costing study by consultants, extension of the financial planning
horizon (para. 3.12) as well as provisions for training in financial and
economic analysis, and internal auditing (paras. 3.13 and 3.14).
B. Pricing
5.02     KOC's revenues are primarily derived from the sale of crude to the
refineries. Until recently, all the crude from the Karamay oilfield was
priced at Y115/ton. MOPI has proposed an increase in the price of crude to
Y175/ton throughout China. The proposed price increase is especially
significant for ensuring the financial viability of oilfields with rising
costs. However, as long as KOC is in a positive net income position, the
major impact of a price increase would be only to increase KOC's fiscal
contributions to the Government. Under the present financial arrangement
whereby essentially all of KOC's net income is taxed and remitted to the
Government (para 5.07), increased profitability would not increase the
retention of funds by KOC or its autonomy in the usage of funds.
5.03     The proposed price increase is pending a decision of the State
Council. As a pragmatic interim measure to provide for the financial
viability of the oilfields, a two-tier pricing system was introduced in 1981
whereby above quota production is being sold at the international price levels
(Y400/ton). The additional net income derived from the differential between
the domestic and international prices from all the oilfields in China is
pooled together by MOPI which allocates the funds back to the various
oilfields commensurate with individual needs for investment funds.
C. Costing
5.04     Financial accountability at KOC is organized under three levels of
cost centers: the corporation, the company and the brigade. Based on the
production and net income targets set by MOPI, KOC works out the annual
operational and investment budget. The budget is prepared in detail down to
the level of brigade and is reviewed and consolidated at the company and in
turn the corporation level. For purposes of budgeting, standard costing is
applied. Standard costs are based on the prevailing prices except in the case
of imported casing and tubing which are subsidized by MOPI.
5.05     Under the existing system in China, cost is the major financial
factor over which KOC has discretionary control. Budgeted cost is a major
yardstick against which the performance of the cost centers is measured.
Review of actual cost against the budgeted cost is regularly undertaken by KOC
management and a detailed variance analysis is performed. As noted earlier
(para. 3.16), performance in cost control is tied in with the incentive system
whereby employee bonuses are distributed only when the net income target is
met. Budgetary control at KOC has proved to be effective and actual cost has
remained close to the budget. While the present budget and control system at
KOC is effective in monitoring its relative operational efficiency over time,
it appears doubtful whether the budget basis -- especially in regard to
quantity inputs -- is conducive to operational efficiency. To ensure that the



- 34 -
budget is a reliable performance yardstick, an evaluation and revision of the
present budget basis at KOC are all the more essential to reflect the infusion
of modern technology provided under the project which should result in
improvement of KOC's operational efficiency (para. 3.09). Insofar as
investment decision-making is concerned, the present costing system does ntot
provide for the calculation of economic costs of finding and extracting oil
which are critical basis for optimizing oilfield investment decisions. An
anomaly of KOC's costing is that its operating cost does not include any
amortization or write-off of exploration expenses since the investment for
exploration has thus far been funded entirely by the Government (Annex 5.01).
5.06     With the view towards strengthening the financial management system,
an assurance was obtained from KOC that a study of its costing would be
undertaken by March 31, 1986 with the assistance of consultants.  The proposed
costing study is directed at the optimization of operational efficiency and
management decision-making through the upgrading of cost information which
would be useful to KOC management in performance evaluation, investment
decision-making and pricing recommendations to MOPI. The study would
include: (a) review of KOC's present costing procedures and techniques in
general, as well as specific budget basis in detail; (b) identification of
areas of inadequacies; (c) recommendations for improvement in cost management,
including improvement of the costing procedures and techniques, as well as
revision of the budget basis for performance evaluation, and (d) derivation of
the economic costs for investment decision-making.
D. Funding Arrangement
5.07     Until recently, KOC was required to remit all net income and 50% of
its annual depreciation fund to the Government. Starting from 1983, KOC's net
income is taxed at a rate of 55%. The balance of the net income is to be
distributed between KOC and the Government at a proportion set by MOPI and
MOF, with the major portion being remitted to GOC. The portion of net income
retained by KOC will mainly be applied towards employee bonus and benefits.
While the new tax system is introduced to provide state enterprises with
increased autonomy and benefits, it is but the first step towards such a
direction. Indeed, KOC's remittances to the Government under the recently
instituted tax system are not expected to differ substantially from those
under the past system. As in the case of other oilfields, KOC is allowed to
retain a portion of its internally generated funds, entitled the "Special
Fund", to cover the cost of field maintenance. The Special Fund is derived
from three sources: (a) 50% of annual depreciation; (b) provision for
overhaul; and (c) oilfield upholding provision (Annex 5.01). These provisions
are classified as expenses for purposes of calculation of net income to be
remitted to the Government.
5.08     KOC's exploration and development investment has so far been financed
exclusively by allocations from the state budget. Investment priority in the
petroleum sector is determined by MOPI in accordance with the Government's
sector strategy. As Karamay is one of the higher cost oilfields in China,
Government funding of investment at KOC currently exceeds the company's
contributions to the Government. The deficit position of Government take from
KOC is, however, more than offset by the surplus from other oilfields such as
Daqing. In fact, the petroleum sector is one of the major surplus sectors in
China. In 1982 the surplus from oil extraction alone amounted to over Y3



- 35 -
billion. At the proposed price increase to Y175/ton, KOC's operations would
contribute a surplus to the Government (para. 5.16).
5.09     Government funding to KOC has been on a grant basis, with the
exception of 1981 and 82. As part of China's economic readjustment program,
KOC was required to borrow, on a trial basis, a portion of its development
requirement from the People's Construction Bank of China at an interest rate
of 3.6% p.a. In 1983, KOC once again received Government contributions for
funding the entire development investment on a grant basis, largely due to
MOPI's effort to improve the company's revenue position (para. 5.14). Working
capital is funded by borrowing from the People's Bank of China.
E. Past Finances and Present Financial Position
5.10     KOC's income statements and balance sheets for the three-year period
1980-82 are set out in Annexes 5.02 and 5.03 and summarized as follows:
1980            1981             1982
Sales Crude (million tons)           3.48            3.50              3.83
Average Sales Price (Y/ton)            115             115              115
Revenues (in million Yuan)            380             387               423
Operating Expenses                    289             293               325
Net Income                             91               94               98
Net Fixed Assets                      951            1091              1323
Total Assets                         1310            1608              1837
Total Networth                        955            1168              1312
Long-term Liabilities                  --               25               92
Operating Ratio                      0.73            0.72              0.73
5.11     KOC's finances have remained stable over the last three years, with
net income increasing slightly from Y91 million to Y98 million on revenues of
Y380 million and Y423 million, respectively. During the same period, the unit
cost of production increased slightly from Y77 to Y78 per ton.



- 36 -
F. Future Finances
5.12     Financial projections for the period 1983-87 are set out in Annexes
5.04, 5.05 and 5.06. Salient features highlighting KOC's operating results
are summarized below:
1983      1984       1985     1986       1987
SaLes Crude (000 tons)             4.03      4.13       4.32      4.80      5.28
Average Sales Price (Y/ton)         129        135       147       175        175
Revenues (million Tyan)             503        545       619       784       858
Operating Expenses-                 391       426        461       522       579
Net Income                           52         58        76       117       119
Operating Ratio                    0.81      0.82       0.77      0.68      0.69
5.1.3    KOC is charged with the task of not only maintaining production but
to increase it from the present level of some 4 million tons to 5.5 million
tons annually by 1987. The Karamay oilfield has been producing for about
thirty years and the productivity per well has entered a declining phase.
Increased production at the Karamay is expected to be achieved only at
increased unit cost. This is because of the need for investment in more
wells, both by infill drilling at the existing fields and the development of
new finds which are likely to be at greater depth and/or subject to more
complex and difficult reservoir conditions. Over the next five years, KOC
estimates that its total operating cost would increase at an average of 10%
p.a., outpacing the production growth which is estimated at 7% p.a. As a
result, the unit cost of production is projected to rise from Y78/ton in 1982
to Y83/ton in 1983, amounting to Y97/ton by 1987 (Annex 5.08).
5.14     In order to allow KOC to continue to cover costs by internally
generated funds, MOPI has set the production quota at 4 million tons p.a.
whiczh is slightly below the production projected by KOC over the period 1983-
85. Under the two tier pricing system (para. 5.03), the average price to be
received by KOC is estimated to increase from Y129/ton in 1983 to Y147/ton in
1985. The revenues from the anticipated above quota production, which is to
be priced at the international level, would more than offset the increase in
production cost. As a result, KOC's net income is forecast to increase
steadily from Y52 million in 1983 to Y76 million in 1985. Based on the
assumption that the price of crude would be raised to Y175/ton from 1986
onward, KOC's net income is projected to increase significantly, amounting to
Y119 million in 1987. As production from KOC's existing fields has peaked,
its future production and finances over the longer term would increasingly
depend on the success of its exploratory efforts. Based on the present
expectation, the proposed exploration project could help to arrest decline
and/'or augment production at Karamay over the medium and longer term.
G. Investment and Field Maintenance Program
5.15     In an effort to increase production, which is targeted to reach 5.5
million tons by 1987, KOC has projected an investment and field maintenance
,/ In constant price terms.



- 37 -
program which would amount to Y3.1 billion over the five-year period
1983-87. The average annual outlay of some Y628 million represents a 33%
increase over that of the last three years. The major increase in expenditure
is to be directed towards field maintenance and exploration (Annex 5.01). The
investment and field maintenance program calls for the drilling of about 1,563
wells, of which 1,033 (66%) are production wells, the balance, 530 wells, are
for exploration and delineation of both heavy and light oil. As KOC's entire
exploration program is being financed by MOPI, the oil company essentially
acts as a contractor to undertake exploration for the Government and the
exploration program would have to be approved by GOC. The exploration program
is a major component of the proposed project and it would be reviewed between
the Bank and KOC (para 4.12).
H. Funds Flow
5.16     Investment and field maintenance would, repectively, represent some
58% and 35% of KOC's total financing requirement of Y3.4 million over the next
five years. KOC's internal cash retained after remittances to the Government
is projected to meet about 42% of the financing needs, covering the entire
expenditure on field maintenance as well as debt service. Internal funds
retained are forceast to cover at least 7 times the debt service requirement
throughout the forecast period. The proposed IBRD loan would finance 8% of
the total financing requirement. The balance, some 50%, would be covered by
Government contributions. Over the period 1983-87, Government funds to KOC
are forecast to total Y1.70 billion. During the same period, KOC's total
contributions to the Government (taxes, remittances of net income,
depreciation) is projected to total Y1.67 billion, which is roughly in balance
with the inflow of Government funds (Annex 5.07). The annual Government take
is forecast to improve from a deficit position of Y130 million in 1983 to a
surplus position from 1986 onward when the proposed crude price increase is
assumed to become effective, amounting to an estimated Y86 million in 1987.
I. Financial Position
5.17     KOC's financial position is expected to be satisfactory throughout
the forecast period. Its debt position is projected to remain low, and the
debt/equity ratio is estimated at 5/95 in 1983 and 13/87 in 1987. KOC's
liquidity position is expected to remain sound and its current ratio is
estimated at about 2.0 over the next five years.
J. Sensitivity Analysis
5.18     The results of sensitivity analysis (Annex 5.01) indicate that even
under less favorable conditions, KOC's finances are forecast to remain
satisfactory. KOC is expected to generate revenues which would more than
cover its costs under all of the cases considered, including production
decreased by 10%, costs increased by 10% and the price of crude increased to
Y140/ton only after 1985. Annual Government take is also expected to be in a
surplus position by 1987 for all the cases which assumed a price increase to
Y175/ton, but would remain in deficit for the case where the price of crude is
only increased to Y140/ton after 1985. This highlights the fact that the
major impact of crude price increase is enhancing KOC's fiscal contributions
to GOC.



- 38 -
K. Recommendations
5.19     KOC's finances have been satisfactory and are expected to remain so
in the future. However, since KOC is not operated on a typical commercial
basis, its financial performance especially in regard to operating efficiency,
cannot be measured in the same manner as a commercially oriented enterprise,
and the application of the Bank's normal financial covenants would be of
limited significance. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from KOC
that it would review with the Bank by October 1 of each year its current and
projected finances, focusing in particular on its trend of production costs
and budget variance analysis, as well as its future investment program and
related financing arrangements. As noted above, a major financial objective
of the Bank is the strengthening of KOC's financial managment system. KOC
would undertake a costing study with the assistance of consultants (para.
5.06) and the horizon of financial planning would be extended to no less than
five years (para. 3.12).
VI. PROJECT RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Justification
6.01     In line with GOC's sector strategy to augment oil production over the
next decade, the proposed project is of high priority to China. The
exploration and heavy oil recovery components included under the project have
good prospects of firming up significant petroleum reserves which could, over
the medium and longer term, be recovered economically. In addition, the
proposed project is an adequate vehicle for promoting the use of state-of-the-
art: technology which should ultimately increase the efficiency of operations
in the sector. For this purpose, the training and technical assistance
components provided under the project have been designed to provide the
critically needed technical inputs for KOC's exploration and development
program.
B. Project Risks
6.02     The project, however, carries the risks inherent in petroleum
projects. The major uncertainty relating to the exploration program pertains
to (i) the quantity of hydrocarbons accumulation and (ii) the economics of
their production; while the risks of heavy oil recovery are mainly related to
the economic feasibility of proven technology.
(1) Petroleum Exploration
6.03     The principal geological risk involves the size as well as quality of
the reservoir. The risk of KOC's exploration program covers three areas at
different stages of exploration maturity and carries different levels of
geological risks (para. 4.12). The proposed exploration program has been
designed to balance low risk, low reward activities and high risk, high reward
ones. This has been achieved by focusing a large portion of its exploration
activities on the short-term objective of proving additional reserves from
conventional prospects, while diverting some resources on evaluating less
explored areas and deeper realms. Furthermore, in order to attenuate the



- 39 -
geological risks, a stratigraphic and structural study will be carried out to
determine the composition and distribution of reservoir bodies, high
resolution and 3-D seismic surveys to better map the deeper horizons and a
continuous review in order to ensure that exploratory drilling is confined to
areas which have high geological ranking (Chapter IV).
6.04     The technical risk is that the project may not be implemented
efficiently. Such a risk, however, is low because KOC has a long history of
drilling in the Junggar Basin and the project has also been designed to
minimize the risk by the provision of critical technical inputs for the
evaluation of formations and better transport support for the extensive
drilling operations in difficult terrain. The economic risk is that even if
hydrocarbons are found, the recoverable quantity would be inadequate to
provide an acceptable return on the investment for exploration and
development. Such a risk, however, is also considered low.
C. Cost-Benefit Analysis
6.05     As in the case of other petroleum exploration projects, the
possibilities of a wide range of outcomes render it impossible to quantify
with any precision the potential benefits of the proposed exploration
program. Instead, the cost-benefit analysis has been focused on the minimum
size of discovery that is required to yield an acceptable economic rate of
return on the investment for exploration and development. Exploration cost to
establish the potential of light oil is estimated at $500 million (early 1984
price terms). The development cost has been estimated on the basis that the
field development cost of the new finds would be similar to that of Karamay's
existing fields. In addition, freight cost to transport surplus oil out of
Xinjiang has been estimated under conservative assumptions. On the basis of
the assumptions set out in Annex 6.01, the discovery of fields resulting in an
incremental annual production of about 1.5 million tons would be adequate to
provide a 15% rate of return to the proposed exploration program. Assuming a
25% recovery factor which is the ultimate recovery expected from the existing
Karamay producing area, the present expectation is that there is a high
probability that the recovered reserves under the proposed exploration program
would exceed the minimum quantity required to yield an acceptable economic
rate of return.
(1) Heavy Oil Recovery Pilots
6.06     The project provides for thermal recovery pilots which, if
successful, would be applied on a large scale at Karamay and/or Liaohe to
enhance the recovery of heavy oil. Notwithstanding the proven technique of
the various methods of thermal recovery, it is not possible to determine at
this stage the optimum method and the precise economics of thermal recovery at
Karamay and Liaohe. The major uncertainty arises from: (a) the lack of
knowledge of the reservoir characteristics; (b) the degree of response of the
specific reservoir to thermal recovery processes (Annex 4.06); (c) the amount
of energy used to recover a certain volume of oil; and (d) the utilization and
transport of heavy oil. In order to minimize the above uncertainty, the
pilots as provided under the project are to be located in a representative
area of the reservoirs and their operations would be closely monitored and
interpreted with the assistance of consultants. In addition, assurance was
obtained from KOC that tests would be undertaken to work out the method of



- 40 -
refining the heavy oil and transporting it out of Karamay. The proposed
pilots would not only provide for a better understanding of the reservoir and
indicate an optimum method of thermal recovery technique, but they are also
expected to pay for themselves by the heavy oil thus recovered. Furthermore,,
should the thermal recovery be subsequently applied on a large scale and
working on a conservative assumption (that is, all the heavy oil is burnt
directly as a low grade residual fuel), the thermal recovery of heavy oil is
still expected to yield a satisfactory return. There is, in addition, the
possibility of extracting high grade lubricating oil from the recovered crude.
D. Conclusion
6.07     In conclusion, the proposed project is justified because of the large
potential benefits. Even though the project carries risks, such risks are
considered relatively low and the project has been designed to attenuate these
riLsks.
VII. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOC that it would
undertake through qualified consultants the following studies/pilots; review
the findings and agree upon the consequent action plan with the Bank:
(i)   by December 31, 1986, a techno-economic study and by March 31,
1985 design of pilot projects for heavy oil recovery at Liaohe
(para. 4.18); and
(ii) by December 31, 1985, a gas utilization study (para. 4.33).
7.02     Assurances were obtained from KOC that it would:
(a)  undertake financial planning for no less than five years on a rolling
basis and the financial statements based on such plans would be
forwarded annually to the Bank for review (para. 3.12);
(b)  maintain a separate project account; have the project account and
KOC's accounts audited; and submit the audited financial statements
to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year
(para. 3.15);
(c)  review with the Bank the exploration program under the project;
(d)  review and agree with the Bank the seismic program at (i) Wuerhe-
Hungchiba area, and (ii) Hongshanzui-Chepaizi area; review the
findings and agree on the consequent changes in the design of the
exploration program (paras. 4.14 (a) and 4.16);
(e)  undertake through qualified consultants the following studies/p'ilots;
review the findings of the studies/pilots and agree with the Bank on
the consequent action plan:



- 41 -
(i)   by December 31, 1986 with respect to the techno-economic study
and by March 31, 1985 design of pilot projects for heavy oil
recovery (para 4.18);
(ii) by December 31, 1986 with respect to the reservoir engineering
study (para. 4.31); and
(iii) by December 31, 1986 with respect to the stratigraphic and
structural study (para. 4.32);
(f)  undertake through qualified consultants the design of training
curricula and teaching methods for skilled workers and professionals
on the basis to be agreed with the Bank; the consultant would be
appointed by March 31, 1985 (para. 4.35);
(g)  submit to the Bank a project progress report in an agreed format at
agreed intervals (paras. 4.39 and 4.40);
(h)  undertake through qualified consultants a study of KOC's costing by
March 31, 1986 (para. 5.06); and
(i)  review its current and future finances with the Bank by October 1 of
each year (para. 5.19).
7.03     A condition of effectiveness would be the execution of a satisfactory
subsidiary loan agreement between GOC and KOC and the approval of the Loan and
Project Agreements by the State Council (para. 4.26).
7.04     With satisfactory resolution of the items outlined above, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$100.3 million (including
capitalized front-end fee) to the People's Republic of China. The loan would
be for a term of 20 years including a 5-year grace period, and would be at the
standard variable interest rate.



ANNEX 1.01
-42 -
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Energy Balance
(Million Tons of Oil Equivalent)
Production                             1980      %       1982      %      1985      %
Crude oil                           105.9       24   102.1   22        100     21
Natural Gas                          12.3        3    10.0    2         9.5      2
Coal                               303.8        68   325.3   70    342.9    71
Hydroelectricity                     20.9        5    26.7    6       27.0       6
Total Availability              442.9       100   464.1  100    479.4   100
Consumption
1,.  Petroleum products                 81.0       19    76.0   17        82.0    18
Industry & commerce              35.5         8    33.9    8       37.1      8
Power                            16.5         4    15.3    3       12.1      3
Transport                        14.0         3    13.0    3       18.9      4
Agriculture & construction        15.0        4    13.8    3       13.9      3
2., Natural gas                         12.3        3    10.0    2         9.5      2
Industry & Commerce:
Feed stock                     4.9       1       4.0    1        3.8      0.7
Fuel                           5.9       1.5    5.0    1.2    4.6         1
Power                              1.5       0.5     1.0    0.3    1.1       0.3
3.  Coal                               303.3       71   322.0    73   333.1    73
Industry & commerce             182.0       43   192.3    44   185.6    41
Power                            57.3        13    62.6    14    74.0    16
Transport                        12.0         3    13.4      3    13.7       3
Domestic                         52.0        12    53.7     12    58.3    12.7
Interfuel substitution
outside power                    -         -      -        -      1.5      0.3
4.  Hydroelectricity                    20.9        5    26.7       7    27.0       6
5.  Refinery losses                      7.0        2      5.9      1       7       2
Total domestic consumption   424.5          100   440.6   100   457.6   100
Exports
Crude oil                            13.3       64    14.7    63    12.0    55
Petroleum products                    4.6       22      5.5    23       -       -
Coal                                  3.0       14      3.3    14       9.8    45
Total Exports                    20.9       100    23.5   100    21.8   100



- 43 -
ANNEX 2.01
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Ministry of Petroleum  Industry
Organization Chart
|    etrl   Idsy Of
Equipmen        l co      ior    || DeveJOOmeft          EYPisto                 Drill ng          Ponneg              gnne           | Pesonel & |   Coopesotions -dier          Scientific Reseo-rh
-9Dp   | |   ptm   |  |Deporlrnont  Depo0nenl|             Deoortnent |     |epoitn'ernt |n| Depreft |    l DEductioc  |   t Pnder 1vIOPI
Diction                Dv_S1COrp-t-                                                                                     & Tfh-lg-l
2 Ch-N tonPrIl           sit"'te
|AdmnstrDtMe              I    t~~~ogging               Mud               CoptO 50           Psoidri on           Payrol          PeoFrgeeurPlpE
1    Dsvisron             1   ~~~~Division         | Division         |Construction           Division       | Division           Ca.porotion
ProduCtion  |   jFoseignA 01h-oo
t   Dulvon   {   |   Duislon   |                          |  ~~~~~~~~DrOnon        Divlon l      | Dsio 
Eotect on           ivisiD
Southwens IS chnuO        NoithivestCrioro          Noth Chnoo EsChni                                 Natheost         CoLlee s& Ilnielst00
Dos Field   |            Olea                    OEe d                   Oiitieid                 Oisie dunsdeiMSOE
_     lne  _itii           loic _ubi              Shiri OSnd             DggPto                  at  C nhino Petroieumr
E-1 Chm    ~ ~  AONihn500550          Cole  VCPIerigi
Admu -|Rrinistrt |r!    Prop nhenotion   |    | Dp irPearotm        3 N Doson- Petru
_| lKsotmu0 D on &      DosgodOlfeld  |              ZhrongYwin    lClg(lhn
DeveioPmienr           Prororrimsnotion           P |Enpoeolourro5  a |tCofege                           n    |Colelge2ES3
C.14.g. (Hub.,W)   Boy-SOD



ANNEX 2.C2
- 44 -
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
/a
Crude Oil Production by Region and Major Fields'-
(Million Tons)
1970    1975    1977    1979    1980    1981   -1982
Northeast               22.37   50.68   54.87   57.36   58.59   58.63   59.19
Daqing               21.18   46.26   50.31   50.75   51.50   51.75   51.94
Liaohe & others       1.19    4.42    4.56    6.61    7.09    6.88    7.25
North                    1.02    4.68   15.55   20.40   19.11   15.26   14.33
Renqiu                   -        -   12.30   17.33   16.03   12.22   11.31
Dagang                1.02    4.68    3.15    2.90    2.91    2.88    2.80
Others                   -        -    0.10    0.17    0.17    0.16    0.16
East                     4.67   16.72   17.66   19.21   17.92   16.41   16.70
Shengli               4.67   16.72   17.52   18.88   17.59   16.11   16.35
Others                   -        -    0.14    0.33    0.33    0.30    0.35
Central-South            0.27    0.87      1.26    3.39    4.16    4.80         5.6
Northwest                2.29    4.02    4.21    5.69    6.06    5.99           6.2
Southwest                0.03    0.09    1.09    0.10    0.10    0.09           0.1
Total         30.65   77.06   93.64  106.15  105.94  101.18  102.12
Oil Balances (1965-1985)
(Million Tons)
Annual
Actual                                   Projected    Growth
1965   1970   1975   1977   1979         1980   1981    1982        1985       1965--1982
Productioni
Crude       11.3   30.65  77.06  93.64 106.15  105.94  101.00  102.12    100.0               142
Export           -      N.A.  12.28  11.46  17.15   18.29   19.09   20.18            11.0      N.A.
Domestic
Consumption   11.3    N.A.  64.78  82.18  89.00   87.65   81.91   81.94             89.0         12%
a/ Source: Ministry of Petroleum Industry



ANNEX 2.03
- 45 -
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJEC,T
Natural Gas Production/-
(Billion m3)
1978       1979      1980        1981       1982
Northeast                   5.00       5.17       5.27       4.30       4.13
Daqing                  3.20       3.31       3.39       2.80       2.78
Others                  1.80       1.86       1.88        1.50       1.35
North                      0.82       0.93       0.80        0.70       0.78
Renqiu                   -          -          -          -         0.15
Dagang                  0.82       0.93       0.80       0.70       0.63
Others                   -          -          -          -           -
East                        1.44       1.55       1.44       1.20       0.99
Shengli                 1.44       1.55       1.42       1.18       0.97
Others                   -          -         0.02       0.02       0.02
Central-South              0.02       0.02       0.05        0.05       0.3
Northwest                  0.30       0.33        0.38       0.45       0.46
Sichuan                    6.15       6.51        6.33       5.80       5.25
Total              13.73      14.51      14.27      12.50      11.91
Associated              5.95       6.53       7.23       6.20        5.96
Non-associated          7.78       7.98       7.04       6.30        5.95
Product Yield of Refineries
(1000 Tons)
Product               1979         1980        1981         1982    % of total
Gasoline            10,698.6       10,790       11,010    11,001         17
Kerosene             4,093.2        3,980        3,640      3,810         6
Diesel oil          18,728.2       18,280       17,530    17,113         26
Lubricating oil    1,914.8          1,970        1,500      1,399         2
Fuel oil            28,161.2       31,420       28,180    26,096         40
Other                    n.a.           n.a        n.a          9
a/ Source: Ministry of Petroleum Industry.



ANNEX 3.01
-46 -                                                                    Page 1 of 3
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Corporation (KOC)
Orgonization Chart
President
Senior            r Of ce of
Vice President          te Compann
'Ace President] ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     reid                _Cm~n
Coordination                                              L
r   |  Chief  l                 l      Chief     l           1                  !                    T Cie_                  _hiefChie
LS  >                     |  ~~~~~Geologist       | Mechanist   |           t Eonornist   |   |Accountant|
Oilfield Capital                           D                   Science &   |lannir   Finance
Construction                            tec                  Technology          a|iery                    Department           nDepartent  |Lcholoza l
DprmnDepartment                              D     e          eprmn                    eprmn Department                           epartentortso
WeAfare     _i_fielo                                       Geological                                                                  ng
Administration                           Technology           Exploration                                                         Dprmn
Department                             Department            Department
C:ivil Engineering|                                                                            Ase 
LDepartment                                                                               Magent 
Safety &          Geophysical &
Quality Control        Geological
Department         Survey Company
[    Dispatch   |   |    Drilling
|Well Testing 
O   Company
)li Production         Scientific
qesearch
Companies (4)           Institute
Down-hole            Production
Servce               Support
Company              Company
Technical            Karamay
SerAce             Technical
Company               School
Wortd Bankr-256,38



_ 47 -                                                                              ANNEX  3.02
Page 2 of 3
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
KOC - Ddlling Company
Organization Chart
ProCthen Company
S  {r55    Deput           OriBingo  |nln              |lln                     Doputy Drlleco   |                                               |p Tran porty Wreiztlon    Re|
AdministreB                      B    er                                    Broducteon |                                                 |roduc Bio       e Suppor
Crw              Crew          Crew          Crew          Crw            Crw           (er           Crews          Crw           Crew           Crw             rw      1      rw
( Economist                    (44           (52           (riB)         (Si            (B)           (32)           (12           (12            (12           (12)            ()ii
I    Payrdl    |  |    Asset    l                                  _    Sceence &           G DepaW  |
I Jnment r    |Departmentr                                                                   ecmn 
|  Personnrtl   |  [   p                                              _    ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~Safety &  |   Gology
Manaement          |     -|Department                               _Deparment Brgd
Pwrsonmel  I                                                                                _     Cp5lTem
Training   _                                                                                     rprmn(S
Produchon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Wd BCrews64



ANNEX 3.03
-  48-ag                                                                                - 
Page 3 of 3
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
KOC - Production Company No. 2 (PCN2)
Organization Chart
Director
Senior
Deputy Director
Direc|or
[jefore
Chief                Chief               Chief                Chief                Chief
[7eltore                Engineer              Geologist          Mechanist            Economist           Accountant
Office of          Construction           Geology            Machinery|             Supply              Finance
the C|j Department|r                        Deprtment          Deprtment            rtmortment           Deportment
Safety &            Gmployee
Quality Control          n    e                                  Training
Department              n                                     Department
Science &
Technology            Personnelhemcal
DeportmenDepeprtment                                         Anaiysis Office
2   Production   |    |  Production                             Payroll
1  Department  |    1   Office                                Deportment
Dispotch |         Management                                 Planning
Deoartment       i      Office  lDp                                   e
Consolidation
Office
Production           Product on           Production          Product on           Down-hole            Oil Transport
Brigade        ~~~Brigade            Brigade             Brigade              Service             Teams (2)
No- 1No. 2                                 No, 3              No 4                Brigade
Production          Production            Production          Production           Well Service            Water
Teams (6)            Teams (5)            Teams (3)           Teams (5)            Teams (8)             Injection
Crews                Crews               Crews               Fracturing          Steam
(36)                 (49)                (SG)                 Team     |     |     ecovery
Specialized
Truck Teams
(3)
,EE l  ~~~World Bonk-25639



_ 49 -                            ANNEX 4.01
Page 1 of 6
CHINA
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY OF THE KARAMAY
OILFIELD AREA AND ITS EXTENSIONS
I.       General Introduction
1.       The Karamay exploration and production area is located in the
northwestern part of the Junggar Basin. Geologically, it is an elongated
overthrust/fault zone several hundred kilometers in length and about 3 km
wide.
2.2      Active oil exloration and appraisal has covered an area of 10,000
km , of which 5,000 km are considered prospective. In the Karamay area
proper, production has been established along a narrow zone, about 100 km long
and 25 km wide.
3.       In the northeastern extension (Wuerhe-Hungchiba area) several oil
finds have been made in formations similar to the productive trend near
Karamay. In the Karamay field area proper, current production amounts to 4
million tons/year and KOC expects that output can be increased to 7 million
tons/year.
II.      Geology
4.       During the Paleozoic and Mesozoic time structural movements in the
Karamay area gave rise to a series of small, complex structures. Source rocks
are widespread and reservoirs have been identified at many levels. Several
generation and migration phases can be distinguished. The Karamay area thus
contains all the necessary ingredients for the generation and preservation of
oil and gas pools. Past exploration has established reserves in excess of 40
million tons of oil in the area.
A.       Stratigraphy
5.       Basement:  The Lower Carboniferous which consists of slightly
metamorphic shales (slates), tight mudstones and quartzites, with locally some
andesites is considered to be economic basement, though when fractured it may
act as a reservoir and contain hydrocarbons. Near Karamay, for example, the
Lower Carboniferous formations are fractured and contain oil where they are in
contact with oil bearing Jurassic reservoirs. It is KOC's policy, to drill
some 100 m into Lower Carboniferous "basement"when testing an overlying
trapping structure.
6.       Middle and Upper Carboniferous:  this comprises a thick sequence of
marine to continental formations. Sandstones and conglomerates predominate
and carbonates are developed locally. The Carboniferous section contains well
developed source rocks and thick reservoir sections and represents an
important exploration target for KOC. In the Wuerhe Hungchiba area KOC expect
to find 300-500 million tons (STOllP) in this sedimentary section.



- 50 -                            ANNEX 4.01
Page 2 of 6
7.       Permian:  This section consists predominately of fluviatile to
lacustrine sands and conglomerates with local carbonates and shales. In the
Karamay area, the shale content of the Permian sediments is around 30%.
Although the shales and clays contain abundant plant material, their source
rock potential is poor. KOC geologists have reason to believe that the
Permian formations grade into marine mudstones, sandstones and shales in the
Manas depression. In the Tien Shan foothills the Permian sediments are
developed in a fully marine facies.
8.       Triassic:  In lower portion of the Triassic poorly sorted sands are
developed. Toward the upper part of the section, the sand quality improves
and porosities between 10-20% with permeabilities ranging between 50 and 100
md are developed. The upper part of the Triassic consists of a predominantly
sha:Ly section which acts as an effective seal. In the Karamay producing area,
most: of the light oil accumulations have been found in Triassic and older
rocks. The overlying Jurassic and Cretaceous sediments, if oil bearing,
cont:ain viscous, heavy crude.
9.       Toward the northwest (Wuerhe-Hungchiba area) where the Upper Triassic
loses its regional seal characteristics, light oil accumulations have been
discovered in the overlying Upper Jurassic reservoirs. In the Karamay area,
some 80% of the oil production comes from Triassic reservoirs. However, it is
too early to predict the oil potential of the Triassic in the northwest but
the lack of a regional seal, indicates that most of the oil probably escaped
into younger sediments where it was transformed into heavy, viscous oil.
10.      Jurassic Sediments:  In the Jurassic clastic sediments of an
alluvial-marginal facies were deposited. In the Karamay area Lower Jurassic
sand are reservoirs for heavy oil. Around Karamay and in the Wuerhe-Hungchiba
area the Upper Jurassic also contains very large heavy oil reserves.
11.      Cretaceous:  Sediments of Cretaceous age are widely distributed in
Karamnay and project area. None of the large structural features of the
overthrust zone affect the Cretaceous sedimEnts. Locally, heavy oil
accumulations have been discovered in the Cretaceous. Unlike Jurassic oil,
however, these occurrences are patchy and of low quality.
B.       Structural Development
12.      The structural grain of the Karamay area was determined by the
mountain system in the west. The sedimentary wedge which was deposited
between this mountain range and the Manas depression has been folded and
deformed into a series of thrust sheets.
13.      At least three thrust zones have been defined during recent
surveys. The sediments below the thrust sheets are mildly folded and several
anticlinal trends have been delineated.
14.      Structural disturbances in the thrust sheets areas are such that an
accurate delineation of internal features is difficult.
15.      The exploration problems in the thrust area are clearly reflected in
the results of KOC's drilling efforts. Most of the successful exploration
wells tested foreland prospects, which had not been affected by thrusting and



ANNEX 4.01
- 51 -                             Page 3 of 6
where seismic mapping is relatively straightforward. Wells which tested
overthrust prospects, have found oil indications but so far no discovery worth
developing has been made.
III.     Geological Prognosis
16.      From the information made available to the mission, it has been
possible to develop a general habitat of oil synthesis which may serve as a
basis for an overall exploration strategy for KOC.
17.      Source rocks were deposited in sediments of Carboniferous age.
Reservoir rocks are abundant throughout the entire stratigraphic section.
18.      Structural deformation was active during deposition so that
geological trapping structures and paths were present.
19.      The early tectonic deformation terminated in Lower Jurassic times.
Sediments deposited since then have blanketed the area except in the highest
part of the Halaat Mountains. Structurally these overlying Jurassic/
Cretaceous sediments are mainly monoclinal.
20.      As there was no regional seal holding hydrocarbons in their Mesozoic
and Paleozoic traps, large amounts escaped into the Lower Jurassic and
Cretaceous formations. Interacting with meteoric waters and bacteria, the
lighter hydrocarbons were destroyed leaving the heavy fractions to form large
viscous oil and tar deposits.
21.      On the other hand, in the Manas depression subsidence continued until
recently, and successively younger source rocks have become mature,
contributing hydrocarbons into the system when the outlets to the surface were
effectively sealed by the tar belt.
22.      Reserves at mid-1983 are given as approximately 700 million tons oil
in-place, i.e., approximately 175 million tons recoverable assuming a 25%
recovery ratio. KOC estimates that during the remainder of the decade another
175 million tons of light oil will be discovered.
23.      For the project area KOC geologists estimate that some 400 million
tons oil in-place can be found as a result of their proposed drilling program.
24.      The Bank has undertaken an independent evaluation of the oil and gas
expectation in the project area by applying the RASP model. A discussion of
the model and the results is presented in Annex 4.02.
IV.      KOC Exploration Program
25.      KOC staff have identified 17 exploration plays in which they expect
to discover 300-500 million tons oil in-place by 1990. In two plays
development will be completed; in four plays hydrocarbons have been found but
considerable appraisal work is needed for establishing proven reserves.
Eleven plays have not been tested yet but by analogy with other areas, KOC
believes there is a high chance of finding substantial reserves of
hydrocarbons.



ANNEX 4.01
- 52 -                          Page 4 of 6
(a) Category I (full determination of reserves).
(i)    Well Xia-9 area:  the objective is the Triassic sands in a
fault trap against a thrust fault. The objective horizons
range in depth between 1,500 m and 3,000 m. Pr3ductivities
of existing wells range between 3 m /d and 17 m /d. It is
expected that 2 additional appraisal wells will increase
proven reserves to 10 million tons oil in-place (15 million
bbls recoverable reserves).
(ii)    Well Wu-5 area:  this is a similar Triassic prospect where
only a few wells need to be drilled to prove 20 million
tons oil in-place (5 million tons recoverable reserves).
(b) Category II (mainly exploration/delineation wells to determine
expected/probable reserves).
(i)    Xia-21 area:  about 10 delineation/development wells are
programmed for this prospect which is located between two
major faults (Xia-10 fault and Xia Hung Bei fault).
Expectations are that 45 million bbls of producible oil
reserves will be proven.
(ii)    Xia-20 area:  this play is a stratgraphic trap located in
one of the few areas where light oil has been found in
sediments of Jurassic age, i.e., in a predominantly heavy
oil play. The presence of small quantities of oil in wells
Xia-12 and Xia-24, suggests that a lateral trapping
mechanism is operative. The prospect will be evaluated in
wells drilled for an underlying prospect. A total of 8
penetrations may be needed for a full evaluation of this
play. Expectations are around 3 million tons recoverable
oil reserves.
(iii)    Fung-3 area:  this play is an anticlinal closure in Upper
Carboniferous; it is located in the underthrust and belongs
to an extensive structurally high trend. Two wells have
tested oil from slightly fractured dolomitic tuffs.
Initial production was 77 m /d; rates declined to 27 m3/d
during the first year but have now stablized at this
rate. An appraisal well tested 9 m /d (this well has not
been stimulated). For a full appraisal 4 wells are
required. Recoverable oil reserves are estimated at around
5 million tons.
(iv)    Beiwu-3 and Fung-5 areas:  Beiwu-3 drilled into Permian
conglomerates in the underthruit area found a 10 m pay;
with production rates into 8 m /d. Ten wells are planned;
the objective depth is 3300 m. KOC expects to prove some
15 million tons oil in-place (about 4 million tons
recoverable).



- 53 -                          ANNEX 4.01
Page 5 of 6
(c)  Category III (proving geological reserves).
(i)    Well Xia-ll area:  is a Triassic objective bounded by two
thrust planes, the Xia-10 fault and the Xia Hun Bei
fault. Seismic mapping resulted in the delineation of two
fault closures. Erratic reservoir development is the main
exploration risk (Triassic conglomerates and sandstones).
Well Xia-ll, drilling at present, encountered oil bearing
sands in an interval at 1,800 m. Fung-3 which penetrated
the play while drilling for a deeper objective found well
developed sands outside the mapped trapping area. KOC
plans to drill 8 wells and prove 15 million tons of oil in-
place (about 3 million tons recoverable).
(ii)    Qie-6 area:  this is a combination structural-stratigraphic
trap at Triassic level. The lower seal is the Wulanlinger
fault while the upper seal depends on the overlying
Jurassic. KOC plans 10 wells for a full evaluation of the
prospect which is expected to contain some 3 million tons
of recoverable oil reserves.
(iii)    Xia-30 area:  this prospect is a Triassic wedge onlapping
on overthrust Carboniferous. The main risk lies in the
doubtful nature of the top seal formed by the Jurassic.
Ten wells are expected to prove around 2 million tons of
producible oil reserves.
(iv)    Well Huan-l area:  this prospect consists of a Triassic
wedge onlapping overthrust Carboniferous. One well drilled
through the prospect encountered minor fluorescence in the
Triassic. Seven wells are needed for a full evaluation
which is expected to prove an additional 3 million tons of
recoverable oil.
(v)    Xiazejia anticline:  this prospect is a small dip closure
on an extensive underthrust anticlinal trend. The
objective section is Upper Carboniferous at a depth of
4,000 m. KOC has programmed 10 wells to test this
prospect. They expect to prove some 3 million tons of
recoverable oil.
(vi)    Wu-40 area:  While drilling a Carboniferous prospect, oil
shows were encountered at several levels in the overlying
Permian section. Oil saturated cores were recovered from
Fung-3, Xia-11 had good oil shows and in Wu-40 good
reservoirs were penetrated. KOC plans to investigate this
section when drilling the overlying Triassic and underlying
Carboniferous prospect. KOC feels that 6 penetrations are
needed to prove the play, and they expect to find around 4
million tons of recoverable oil.
(vii)    Well Fung-5 area:  this prospect a well defined structure
at Carboniferous level between the Xia Hung Bei fault and
the Xia-21 fault. Well Fung-5, drilling at present, has



- 54 -                           ANNEX 4.01
Page 6 of 6
cored the objective interval and good oil shows have been
noted in microfractures. A total of 10 wells is planned to
test this prospect; expected reserves are about 3 million
tons of recoverable oil.
(viii)    Hashan anticline:  this prospect is a large turnover at
Carboniferous level, underlying the overthrusted Halaa t
Mountains. Total closed area is in excess of 700 km ,
consisting of two culminations. Hashan-1 was the first
well to test this objective. It found the Upper
Carboniferous missing, replaced by a thick section of
Middle Carboniferous. No hydrocarbon shows were
recorded. Due to its nearness to large thrust faults,
there is a fair chance that the Carboniferous is more
intensively fractured here than in the foreland. KOC
considers that at least 20 wells will be needed for a full
evaluation of this play; they expect to find about 30
million tons of recoverable oil reserves.
(ix)    Xia Hun Bei Anticline:  this is a structurally very complex
play between the Wulanlinger and Xia Hun Bei fault. The
prospective section contains Permian and Upper
Carboniferous elements. One well has encountered oil and
gas shows in the Upper Carboniferous. According to KOC, 13
wells are required for an evaluation of this play, and they
expect to find some 8 million tons of producible oil.
(x)    Wulanlinger fault play:  this is a Carboniferous play
immediately above and below the Wulanlinger fault. While
the stratigraphic objectives are well defined, there is
little justification for an exhaustive drilling program.
KOC plans to drill 15 wells which are expected to add some
10 million tons of oil to the producible reserves.
(xi)    Upper Block West Bei Wu fault:  the objectives are in a
Carboniferous fault segment between the West Bei Wu and the
middle Bei Wu thrust faults. A well which inadvertently
penetrated this block, tested 10 m /d of oil from a
Carboniferous sand. The play is essentially
stratigraphic. KOC plans to drill 9 wells and expects to
prove some 3 million tons of producible oil.



ANNEX 4.02
- 55 -                            Page 1 of 6
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
HYDROCARBON EXPECTATION
Petroleum Geological Parameters:
1.       Among the many factors affecting the petroleum resource potential in
an area are the existence of a petroleum source and a migration path between
the source and the reservoir holding formation. Additional critical factors
include the existence of trapping structures in the reservoir rocks, the size
of the pores in the reservoirs, the volume of the reservoir trap, the depth of
the reservoirs and the number of potential deposits etc.
2.       An evaluation of the hydrocarbon resource potential requires thus a
good knowledge of key geological factors; the better this knowledge, the more
precise the oil and gas reserve assessment. Where the information base is
weak, predictions will show wide variations.
3.       An assessment of the hydrocarbon endowment of the Wuerhe-Hungchiba
area faces the problem of an irregular data base. In its southwestern part,
adjacent to the Karamay producing area, information density is fair,
consisting of geophysical data and numerous exploration wells/delineation
wells. Seismic quality is very uneven, this being the main reason for
inadequate structural control. Consequently any projections of expectations
at this stage would be no more than a first rough indication of the overall
oil and gas potential of the area.
4.       On the other hand, the stratigraphical development in the project
area is reasonably well known: source rocks and reservoir rocks have a wide
areal extent. Although detailed seismic mapping is far from complete, there
are good indications that geological trapping structures are plentiful and
distributed over the entire project area. Thus, while the data base is
incomplete in the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area, as evaluation regarding the key
parameters are possible.
Source Rocks
5.       In the Karamay area, there are thick rock intervals which were
derived from adjacent land areas containing large amounts of plant materials;
these sequences would be gas prone. The geological history of the area
further indicates that, at times, lacustrine and marine conditions prevailed;
shales deposited during such intervals could be source rocks for oil.
Geochemical analysis will be an important element of the project.
Maturation of source rocks
6.       For organic matter to generate hydrocarbons, a certain temperature
and (less important) pressure regime has to be attained; oil and gas
generation takes place in a temperature interval between 600 and 180 C, beyond
1800 only gas will occur. The depth at which these temperatures are reached
depends on the rate of increase of the subsurface temperature (geothermal
gradient). Where this gradient is high, generation can take place at shallow



- 56 -                            ANNEX 4.02
Page 2 of 6
depths (say 2,000 meters); conversely, in areas of low rates of increase,
generation will take place at much greater depths. In the project area no
systematic subsurface temperature studies have been carried out. The depth at
which hydrocarbons are generated, and therefore the depth of gas and oil
pools, is one of the major uncertainties. Commencing with the project, as
many temperature data as possible will be acquired from exploration wells and
special surveys.
Reservoir Rocks
7.       There is no scarcity of reservoir rocks in the KOC operated area.
Each exploration well has encountered sand reservoirs and/or limestone
reservoirs. The extent and shape of individual reservoirs has not been
studied, mainly because of the scarcity of high resolution seismic data. This
is yet another exploration risk which will be addressed in the project
implementation. The project includes a regional sedimentological studies
effort.
Geological Trapping Structures
8.       For a geological structure to retain oil or gas two conditions must
be fulfilled: (a) reservoir rocks must be warped or faulted and be overlain by
impervious rocks which prevent hydrocarbons from escaping once they have
entered the structure; and (b) reservoir rocks must be in communications with
soujrce rocks from which hydrocarbons can migrate. There is sufficient
information available in the Karamay areas for demonstrating that geological
trapping structures are widespread and that most of them could, indeed, retain
oil or gas. What is needed for a full hydrocarbon appraisal and for the
selection of locations for exploratory and delineation wells is a knowledge of
the exact outline and size of each structure. The proposed seismic program
has been designed to provide such critical data.
Overall Evaluation of a Basin
9.       The geological parameters summarized above determine the type of
hydrocarbons in a geological basin, their distribution and the size of the oil
ancl gas fields. A full evaluation of the oil and gas incidence requires a
thorough knowledge of these parameters. Where they change rapidly or are not
sufficiently known, an appraisal can become a complex and intricate task.
During recent years, special statistical methods have been developed which
address this problem and which have been widely used. In most of these
met;hods the geologist is required to make statements which reflect his
knowledge of these parameters. These statements have to be translated into a
chance of their occurrence. The geologist will also have to make statements
as to porosity distribution, population of drillable prospects. etc. Such data
are then analysed according to a statistical method which was developed by the
Canadian Geological Survey and modified by the US Interior Department. The
computer program is called Resource Appraisal Simulation for Petroleum
(RASP). This has resulted in listings of possible outcomes (para 10) which
can also be presented in the form of expectation curves.   A careful
comparison of the listings or expectation curves and a close scrutiny of the
input data permit a ranking of the various exploration prospects; furthermore,
the particular shape is indicative of the state of geological knowledge at the
time of appraisal.



- 57 -                             ANNEX 4.02
Page 3 of 6
Application of Appraisal System to Wuerhe-Hungchiba Project Area
10.      KOC has established 15 geological plays in the Wurehe Hungchiba area
which exploration activities will be carried out under this project (See Annex
4.01). For each play an appraisal as described in Para 9 has been carried out
the listings of which are given below: (Note: volumes given are oil in place
and gas in place. To arrive at producible reserves a recovery factor of 0.25
should be used for oil and 0.7 for gas).
XIA 21 AREA             XIA 20 AREA              FUNG 3
OIL   GAS    BOE       OIL   GAS    BOE       OIL   GAS    BOE
(BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)   (BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)  (BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)
Percentile
0.99        0.00  0.16   0.03      0.89  0.19   0.93    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.90        0.00  0.47   0.10      1.20  0.26   1.24    0.20  0.28   0.26
0.80       0.01  0.69   0.14       1.39  0.30   1.44    0.33  0.45   0.41
0.70       0.02  0.87   0.19       0.52  0.33   1.58    0.48  0.65   0.58
0.50       0.04  1.22   0.26       1.75  0.38   1.82    0.70  0.95   0.87
0.30       0.06  1.65   0.35       2.03  0.44   2.11    0.98  1.33   1.21
0.10        0.12  2.31   0.50       2.39  0.52   2.49    1.37  1.91   1.70
0.05       0.15  2.68   0.59       2.56  0.55   2.65    1.59  2.15   1.96
0.01        0.21  3.51   0.80      2.89  0.62   3.00    2.00  2.75   2.49
*BBBL Billion barrels
Tcf Trillion cubic feet
BOE  Barrels of oil equivalent
BEIWU 3/FUNG 5            XIA 11 AREA          QIE 6 AREA
OIL   GAS    BOE       OIL   GAS    BOE       OIL   GAS    BOE
(BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)   (BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)  (BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)
Percentile
0.99       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.90        0.00  0.00   0.00      0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.80        0.00  0.00   0.00      0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.70       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0,00  0.00   0.00
0.50       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.30        0.00  0.00   0.00      0.09  0.07   0.10    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.10        0.01  0.01   0.01      0.20  0.14   0.22    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.05        0.02  0.01   0.02      0.25  0.18   0.28    0.03  0.01   0.03
0.01        0.02  0.02   0.03      0.33  0.24   0.37    0.09  0.05   0.10



- 58 -                                 ANNEX 4.02
Page 4 of 6
XIA 30 AREA                HUAN 1              XIAZEJIA
OIL   GAS    BOE       OIL   GAS    BOE       OIL   GAS    BOE
(BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)   (BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)  (BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)
Percentile
0.99       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.90        0.00  0.00   0.00      0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.80        0.00  0.00   0.00      0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.70       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.50        0.00  0.00   0.00      0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.30       0.01  0.00   0.01       0.02  0.00   0.02    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.10       0.02  0.00   0.02       0.04  0.01   0.04    0.01  0.02   0.01
0.05        0.02  0.01   0.02      0.05  0.01   0.05    0.01  0.04   0.02
0.01        0.03  0.01   0.03      0.08  0.02   0.08    0.04  0.10   0.05
WU 40 AREA             FUNG 5                  HASHAN
OIL   GAS    BOE       OIL   GAS    BOE       OIL   GAS    BOE
(BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)   (BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)  (BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)
Percentile
0.99       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.90       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.80       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.70       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.50       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.30       0.02  0.02   0.02       0.06  0.08   0.07    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.10        0.05  0.06   0.06      0.13  0.19   0.16    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.05       0.07  0.07   0.08       0.17  0.26   0.22    0.05  0.12   0.07
0.01       0.10  0.11   0.12       0.23  0.34   0.29    0.31  0.69   0.46
XIA HUN BAI            WULANLINGER        WEST BEI WU FAULT
OIL   GAS    BOE       OIL   GAS    BOE       OIL   GAS    BOE
(BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)   (BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)  (BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)
Percentile
0.!99       0.00  0.00   0.00      0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.90       0.00  0.00   0.00       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.80        0.00  0.00   0.00      0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.70       0.26  0.15   0.29       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.50        1.01  0.60   1.12      0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.30       1.58  0.95   1.74       0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.1]0       2.21  1.36   2.45      0.02  0.02   0.02    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.05        2.56  1.55   2.85      0.04  0.03   0.04    0.00  0.00   0.00
0.01        3.16  1.98   3.52      0.08  0.07   0.09    0.02  0.01   0.02
Conclusions
11.      A statistical summation of the above listings for the various plays
resEults in the following values: in the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area there is a high



- 59 -                            ANNEX 4.02
Page 5 of 6
chance of finding about 700 million barrels oil-in-place (about 100 million
tons in place). This compares with 400 million tons oil-in-place as estimated
by KOC. According to the composite listing, shown below, there is only a 20%
chance that this latter amount is present.
COMPOSITE LISTING
WUERHE-HUNGCHIBA AREA
(without XIA 20, see Para 13)
OIL   GAS    BOE
(BBBL) (Tcf) (BBBL)
Percentile
0.99                0.18  0.88   0.41
0.90                0.69  1.78   1.05
0.80                1.06  2.18   1.48
0.70                1.44  2.53   1.88
0.50                2.01  3.07   2.57
0.30                2.61  3.66   3.22
0.10                3.42  4.64   4.15
0.05                3.82  5.12   4.66
0.10                4.63  6.47   5.53
12.      Furthermore, a close inspection of the listings indicates that out of
15 prospective areas identified by KOC there are only 7 which have a
reasonable chance of finding substantial volumes of hydrocarbons. In the
remaining plays expectations are very low as several input parameters are
poorly developed or condemnatory. Each of these plays requires additional
studies or supplemental seismic. If additional data do not raise the
expectations, no drilling should be undertaken.
13.      The XIA-20 area, while not included in the summation, requires
further discussion. It is essentially a stratigraphic play with a large
number of individual prospects in excess of 100. The oil geological
parameters are in general favorable.   In particular, KOC geologists believe
there is a 30% chance that in any randomly drilled prospect an effective seal
will be present, which is a crucial element in a play of this type. If this
assumption can indeed be verified, then there is a 50% chance that 280 million
tons oil-in-place are present in this play. Detailed seismic surveys and
seimostratigraphic studies should therefore be given high priority, followed
by drilling of some key wells.
Project Area South
14.      Geological information of this area is very scarce, rendering a
meaningful RASP evaluation meaningless. Despite the limited data base, the
area appears prospective and requires extensive exploration work. Two
geological plays appear to be present. In the northern part, Karamay-type
structures prevail, while the southern part belongs to a new prospective
realm, the Urumqi foredeep. Although exploration data are sparse, sufficient
information is available to indicate that the parameters controlling
generation and migration of petroleum are present and well developed. The
main uncertainties relate to the number of drillable prospects and their



ANNEX 4.02
Page 6 of 6
respective sizes (area and vertical closure). Considering larger structures
in the south,typical of the foredeep type, the potential hydrocarbon
acctummulations could be large. The area is obviously of considerable
interest; accelerated exploration thus carries a high priority. Under the
project, reconnaissance and detail seismic programs will be implemented.
15.      In the Karamay producing area no RASP evaluation has been
attempted. It is believed that KOC's estimated of finding another 200 million
tons of oil (in place) is reasonable; it compares with the figures arrived at
for the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area (a high chance of finding 100 million tons oil-
in-place) where geological risks are much greater than in the producing area.



ANNEX 4.03
- 61 -                    Page I of 4
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Geophysical Exploration
History
1.       Geophysical exploration is the Raramay area started in 1952 after the
discovery of commercial production by drilling near surface seepages.
(a) Field Acquisition
2.       KOC currently operates eight seismic crews of which three are
contracted from the Compagnie Generale de Geophysique (France) and eight
Chinese crews. CGG has finished its activities in October 1983 and in
accordance with the terms of the expiring two year contract the crews has
handed over their field equipment to KOC.
3.       Four of the above mentioned crews, one CGG and three Chinese are
currently not working in the KOC area but are seconded to the Xinjiang
Petroleum Bureau (XPB). XPB is carrying out the overall exploration in
Xinjiang province but does not have its own seismic parties. Its parties in
the Junggar Basin are contracted from and technically supported by KOC,
parties in the Tarim basin are supplied by the Zhoushen Geophysical Research
Institute in Zhuoxian.
4.       Surface conditions in the Junggar Basin are arid.  About half of its
extend is covered by sand dunes and along its edges outcrops have formed
escarpments which are sometimes difficult to traverse. Along the southern rim
of the basin some agriculture is supported by rainfall against the Tienshan
mountains.
5.       Progress of the seismic parties is dependent on the local conditions
but the following are average production figures for 1982:
Chinese crews (explosives)   300 km/year
Chinese crews (vibroseis)    530 km/year
CGG crews (explosives)       1000 km/year
6.       Average costs are $3400/km for the KOC crews and $4700/km for CGG.
The latter includes the costs of all field equipment to be handed over to KOC
after two years. The main cause for the low production of the KOC crews is
lack of spare parts and insufficient maintenance level resulting in an
downtime of two months per year. Until now Chinese crews also interrupted
work during the winter months but this was said to be changed next winter.
(b) Processing
7.       Processing is carried out in a larger processing center in Ilrumqi
consisting of two Cyber 176-720 configurations. This center was installed by
CGG/CDC in December 1980 and is processing with CGG software. It is reporting
directly to KOC but is also processing data from the XPB parties and from the



ANNEX 4.03
- 62 -                         Page 2 of 4
Chensi (Ordoz), Gansu and Tsaidan basins, in total about 15,000 - 20,000
km/year from fifty seismic parties. It is reported to be fully loaded and
unable to absorb any further increment in processing tasks, such as migration
before stack in the overthrusted belt.
8.       The CGG software has not been updated since 1980 and it lacks the
necessary Fourrier transform algorithms to carry out filtering in the K-F
domain efficiently.
(c) Results
9.       Data quality is mainly influenced by tectonics and varies from
excellent in the deeper parts of the Junggar hasin to absolutely no
reflections in the allochthonous mass along the basin rim, with intermediate
quality in the overthrusted zones. Surface conditions are generally friendly
for seismic recording, except for the central part of the area which is
covered by sand dunes. These absorb much of the seismic energy and until now
hardly any information below base Jurassic has been recorded these. In areas
without Quaternary cover shothole drilling is difficult and the vibroseis
method is preferred.
(d) Interpretation
10.      Seismic data is interpreted by some 20 interpretors in the processing
center in Urumqi and five interpretors at KOC's operational base in Karamay.
Interpretors in Karamay interface with management and drilling operations and
mont'hly coordinate with their collegues in Urumqi.  Such a division is never
desirable but under the circumstances there is no other solution.
11.      The interpretation effort is mostly aimed at solving fault patterns
of the thrust belt which is the main exploration objective. Like in similar
situations elsewhere its complexities can only be partly unraffled by
seisrmic. This seismic information shows strong differences between closely
spaced lines, indicating that many events are not at right angle to the
seismic line.
e)   Staff
12.      KOC employs 130 geophysicists of which 80 have more than five years
experience. They are about equally distributed over field acquisition
processing and interpretation. Although dedicated to their task and generally
making a competent impression, they feel that their isolated location, near
the Centre of Asia, results in very little contact with modern Western
exploration techniques. They feel much less exposed to such modern technology
than their collegues in the Eastern areas of China, close to the activities of
private oil companies in the offshore. The cultural revolution has resulted
in a large age cap between the older experienced and the younger geophysicists
and t'he ensuing work load has prevented many of the older geophysicists from
attending the necessary courses to keep abreast with new technologies. As the
seismic network grows denser and with seven field parties and the drilling of
some eighty exploration and appraisal wells per year, there is a very severe
shortage of experienced interpretors.



- 63 -                     ANNEX 4.03
Page 3 of 4
13.      Foreign crews consist of 12 CGG staff and 80 Chinese technicians and
labor. The local crews comprise 120 personnel.
Future Seismic Program by KOC
(a) TWuerhe-Hungchiba and Southern Areas
14.      Within the Wuerhe-TIungchiba part of the project area seismic
exploration will be carried out by two foreign crews equiped for 240 trace
recording in order to push the seismic resolution of the overthrusted zone to
its practical limit. The crews will also have vibroseis equipment capable of
generating logarithmic sweeps aimed at pushing more high frequencies into the
ground.
15.      During project appraisal KOC proposed a program consisting of 2,100
km of in-line seismic and two adjoining 3 D surveys. The 3 D surveys are laid
out to cover the thrusted fault slices with Mesozoic projects but will at the
same time serve to better outline some of the underlying Permian and
Carboniferous prospects. In fact of the 17 prospects in the project area nine
prospects, on which 43 exploration/appraisal wells are to be drilled, will be
entirely or to a great extend covered by these 3 D surveys.
16.      It is estimated that progress of these crews using 240 geophone
stations and high multiplicity may be less than the 1000 km/year averaged over
1982. Hence in the project description an allocation of four seismic crew-
years has been made for the total acquisition of the in line and the 3 D
surveys.
17.      For the layout of the 3 D recording pattern they will ask assistance
from the Geophysical Research Institute in Zhuoxian and from experts from the
geophysical contractor.
18.      In the southern, Shaiao Ygoui-Chepaizi, part of the project area one
foreing crew will be employed. A first program of about 1000 km has been laid
out here. This will be aimed at further delineation of the thrust belt
towards the south. Some old seismic lines are available here whIch show
interesting features. The program will also cover a gravity high and an
anomaly recorded by aeromagnetic surveying and which indicates a basement high
north of an east-west fault. A conventional explosive source will be used
here.
19.      Tenders for these surveys were invited by LIB procedure from eight
major geophysical contractors whose representatives visited the Junggar and
other basins in China. Six companies subitted bids for the surveys in the
Junggar Basin. CGG (France), the lowest evaluated bidder, was awarded the
contract.
(b) Other KOC Areas
20.      KOC intends to continue seismic exploration especially aimed at the
overthrust belt. For 1984-1985 it has scheduled two Chinese crews for this
purpose, a Vibroseis crew will work in the Baikougian area and a dynamite crew
will start work west of Karamay.



- 64 -                         ANNEX 4.03
Page 4 of 4
21.      The problems which KOC faces in their other areas are very similar to
those encountered in the Bank project area. In case of successful results of
the high resolution and 3 D techniques KOC can immediately use these
techniques for a wider application.
(c) Other Areas of Junggar Basin
22.      Of the eleven Chinese crews working under KOC technical supervision
eight will be seconded to XPB. These will comprise the three new crews to
start early 1984 and which will be equiped with the 96 trace instruments
received from CGG at the end of the current contract. Five of these crews
will be recording in the eastern and south-eastern part of the basin where
recently a successful exploration well was drilled, two in the north east
(Urunqu depression) and one over the central structurally high area.
Future Processing Capacity and Capability
23.      The major seismic processing center for Western China is situated in
Urumqi, Administrative Center of Xinjiang province. The center reports
directly to KOC but as mentioned earlier it also processes data from other
exploration areas e.g. the Chensi, Gansu and Tsaidan basins.
24.      As the center is fully loaded the extra recording by three more crews
in the project area using 240 channel recording necessitates a major upgrading
of the center's capacity. Moreover for a close cooperation between the
interpreting geologists and the processing geophysicists it is essential that
the center be equipped with hardware and software to process the planned 3 D
surveys in the project area. Along with the bid for seismic service (Para 19)
MOPI invited bids for the upgrading of the computer center, and GCC was
awarded the contract.
25.      Although training of KOC processing staff would be provided at the
manufacturers site it is important that extra processing consultancy will be
provided as soon as the new technology becomes operational.



- 65 -
Annex 4.04
CHINA
Karamay Petroleum Project
Allocation of Bank Loan
(US$ million)
Exploration                                                                  $
Seismic surveys (6 crew years)                                          16
Expansion of the processing centre                                       7
Heavy Oil
Feasibility studies, engineering design
and monitoring for 3 years                                  3.5
Wells, materials and equipment &
surface facilities                                          8.0
Imported Equipment
-     Workover rigs (6 units)                                          8.0
-     Fracturing equipment (one set)                                   5.0
-     Cementing trucks                                                 3.0
-     Formation & production logging
trucks (2 units)                                            11.5
-     Transportation units                                             5.0
-     Miscellaneous drilling, coring &
testing tools and sand control equipment                     3.0
-     Laboratory                                                       1.0
-     Computer                                                        4.5
Training & technical assistance                                             5.0
Total                                                  80.5
Physical & price contingencies                                             19.5
Front-end fee                                                               0.3
Total                                                 100.3



- 66 -
Annex 4.05
CHINA
Karamay Petroleum Project
Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
(In US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Quarter                       Amount Disbursed                   Cumulative
1985             1                      0.0                            0.0
2                      1.0                           1.0
3                      3.0                           4.0
4                      4.0                           8.0
1986             1                      8.0                           16.0
2                      8.0                          24.0
3                      8.0                          32.0
4                      8.0                          40.0
1987             1                     13.0                           55.0
2                     13.0                          70.0
3                     13.0                          85.0
4                     15.0                          94.0
1988             1                      2.0                           96.0
2                      2.0                          98.0
3                      2.3                         100.3



ANNEX 4.06
- 67 -               Page 1 of 2
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROELUM PROJECT
Thermal Recovery of Heavy Oil
1.       Thermal recovery is by far the most proven of the enhanced ol
recovery processes used today. Oil recovered through the application of
thermal processes represents 83% of all the enhanced recovery oil in the USA
(and accounts for more than 20% of the production of the State of
California). Thermal recovery is used in preference to other recovery methods
for a number of reasons. In the case of viscous (heavy ) oil, which is the
case of most current interest, heat is used to improve the displacement and
the recovery efficiencies. The reduction in crude oil viscosity that
accompanies a temperature increase not only allows the oil to flow more
freely, but also results in a more favorable mobility ratio. The conventional
thermal recovery processes are steam, in-situ combustion, hot water and hot
gas with the first two being the most widely used.
2.       The in-situ combustion process is basically a burning front that
slowly moves from an injection well to one or more producing wells. The
process is initiated by injecting air that is heated at 400-1200 F, injecting
air that passes through a downhole igniter or injecting air in an already
heated reservoir (a reservoir that was subject to steam injection). As the
burning front moves away from the well, several distinct zones develop. The
crude oil ahead of the burning front is carbonized to produce a coke-like
deposit on the sand grains. This deposit constitutes the principal fuel of
the process. Downstream of the burning zone the temperature is high enough to
vaporize the lighter hydrocarbons and crack the heavier hydrocarbon. Steam is
also generated through the reaction of the injected oxygen with the
hydrocarbon and as a result of vaporization of the interstitial water of the
formations. The above demonstrates the effectiveness of the various drives
(steam, miscible, gas and thermal which the in-situ combustion generates.
Although the in-situ combustion process has been very successful, (recovering
as high as 60% of the oil) the basic process is inefficient in the sense that
most of the heat generated remains behind the front. Water injection during
the combustion process recuperates the heat from the burned-out zones and
adjacent strata and further improves the recovery. This process is known by
the acronym COFCAW (combination of forward combustions and water flooding).
3.       The steam drive process involves injecting steam in the oil-bearing
formation at saturation temperature and pressure. The steam causes boiling
and stripping of light component in the crude, promotes the formation of a low
viscosity oil bank near the condensation front, reduces the oil viscosity,
improves the displacement efficiency and improves the effective mobility ratio
of the displacing process. Steam drives could recover as high as 50% of the
reservoir oil; however, an equivalent of one-fourth to one-half of this oil is
burnt to generate the steam. A precursor of steam drive is cyclic steam
injection (also known as steam soak and huff "n" puff). Steam is injected in
a well for some time (ranging from two to six weeks) followed by a short
period of soaking. The injection well is then converted to a producing well
that yields significant volumes of stimulated oil. Steam injection cycles
could be repeated, usually with diminishing success. Cyclic steam operations
are usually converted to steam drive or to in-situ combustion to recover the



ANNEX 4.06
- 68 -                 Page 2 of 2
remaining oil. In addition to the economic attractiveness of cyclic steam,
yielding high recoveries at early stages, it reduces the flow resistance near
the wells where this resistance is most pronounced; hence, it increases the
efficiency and improves the operability of subsequent processes.
4.       One of the main limitations of thermal recovery processes is the
reservoir depth. Beyond a depth of 4000 ft the economies deteriorate sharply
as a result of high energy requirement to compress the air for in-situ
combustion or high energy transit loss from the boilers to the reservoir in
the case of steam injection. Our knowledge of the thermal processes and the
response of the reservoir are still quite limited. Even with mathematical and
laboratory models, it is difficult to predict with any certainty: (a) vertical
and areal coverage of the flood front; (b) heat losses to formation above and
below the oil reservoir; (c) floodability and continuity of the reservoir; (d)
rate of advance of combustion or steam front and the production response
times; (e) amount of oil burned during the in-situ operation or steam
requirement for a steam flood; (f) injectivity and injection cost; (g) the
remaining oil saturation in the steam swept-out areas; and (h) operating
problems as formation of emulsions, sand production, downhole casing and
tubing failure, etc. Pilot projects are designed in a representative area of
the reservoir to provide answers to many of the above uncertainties. Pilot
operations should be closely monitored and interpreted and care must be
exercised in extrapolating pilot performance to commercial performance.



CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
_    __           ~~~Years        1984             1985           1986             1987           '19h8           1989
Activties           Quartets   1   2  3   4   11        3   4   1   2  3  4   1   2  3  4   1   2  3  4 1   2 3  4
Tener  ocuent &    Mdonthyss
World Bank-25852
Dtl
1



- 70 -
ANNEX 4.08
Page 1 of 1
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
LIST OF EQUIPMENT
ITEM     DESCRIPTION                                                     QUANTITY
1      Workover Rigs                                                   Six
2      Fracturing Equipment,                                           One Set
3      Formation Logging Truck with Necessary
Sands and Tools                                                One Set
4      Production Logging Truck with Necessary
Sands and Tools                                                One
5*     Seismic Equipment                                               For Three
Parties
5      Computer for Seismic Processing with
Peripherals and Software                                       One
,7     Transportation Equipment                                       Lot
8      Cementing Trucks                                                Two
9      Equipment and Instrumentation for Heavy
Oil Pilot                                                      Lot
10      Laboratory Equipment                                            Lot
11      Equipment for Training Centers                                  Lot
12      Miscellaneous Drilling, Coring, Testing
and Sand Control Equipment                                     Lot
*Will be supplied under seismic acquisition contract.



ANNEX 5.01
Page 1 of 2
- 71 -
CHINA
Karamay Petroleum Project
Notes on Financial Aspects
1.       KOC reports all exploration costs under the capital construction
account. MOPI finances the approved costs of exploration. In the event that
exploratory wells are turned into production wells, the latter are reported by
KOC in its balance sheet for production and are valued at the standard cost in
production wells.
2.       For budgeting purposes, standard costing is applied.  Intercompany
transactions are priced at standard quantities and costs, while actual
quantities are reported by the cost centers which incur the expenses. Actual
costs are calculated at the corporation level and the variance between the
actual and standard costs are allocated to the various cost centers.
3.       KOC's internal funds retained are entitled the "Special Fund" and
they are derived from the following sources:
(i)   Fifty percent of annual depreciation provision --depreciation rate is
at an average of about 9% of productive assets.
(ii)  Overhaul provision - at 7% of productive assets.
(iii) Oilfield upholding - at Y12.6/ton of oil production for 1983-87.
4.       The above provisions are to be approved annually by GOC and the funds
thus derived are applied at field maintenance, including infill drilling, new
equipment and employee welfare. With the exception of oilfield upholding
provision, funds which are not utilized during the period of the provision can
be carried forward.
5.       KOC's level of working capital is set by MOPI.  Working capital is
funded by the People's Bank of China at an interest rate of 7.2% p.a. for the
budgeted amount, and a premium is added to the finance charge for the amount
over the budget, amounting to 9.6% p.a.
6.       Debt service, both principal repayment and interest, is tax
deductible and net income is remitted to the Government only after allowing
for the coverage of debt service.
7.       KOC's total planned investment program is given as follows:
Million Yuan       Percent
Exploration                                1,043              33
Development                                  923              30
Field Maintenance                          1,173              37
TOTAL              3,138             100



- 72 -
ANNEX 5.01
Page 2 of 2
Sensitivity Analysis
8..      The results of sensitivity analysis performed are summarized below:
Government Take       Net Income        Operating
(Million Yuan)      (Million Yuan)        Ratio
1983       1987      1983      1987      1983    1987
Base Case                   (130)        142      52       119       0.81    0.69
Case 1 - Production
decreased by 10%          (265)         68     29        82        0.91    0.76
Case 2 - Total Expenses
increased
by 10%            (163)         93      39        93       0.89    0.76
Case 3 - Price of
Crude at Y140/ton
after 1985               (130)       (44)     52        46        0.81    0.86



ANNEX 5.02
- 73 -
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Corporation (KOC)
Income Statements (1980-82)
(In Million Yuan)
1980       1981        1982
Revenues
Sales Revenues                   399.7       403.1       440.1
Less: Sales Tax                   (20.0)    ( 16.1)    ( 16.6)
Net Sales Revenues          379.7       387.0       423.5
Expenses
Operating Cost                    176.8       173.3      206.8
Depreciation                      98.9       105.9       101.4
Others                             12.8       13.7        17.0
Total Expenses              288.5       292.9       325.2
Net Income                        91.2       94.1         98.3



- 74 -                  ANNEX 5.03
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Company (KOC)
Balance Sheets (1980-82) (As of December 31)
(In Million Yuan)
1980         1981        1982
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                     1,406        1,761       2,083
Less: Acc. Depreciation           (826)        (959)    (1,079)
Net Fixed Assets                580          802       1,004
Work in Progress                   371          289         319
Total Net Fixed Assets          951        1,091       1,323
Current Assets
Inventories                        128          204         219
Accounts Receivable                151          201         195
Cash                                22           17          12
Total Current Assets            301          422         426
Special Fund Assets                 58           95          88
Total Assets             1,310        1,608       1,837
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Equity
Fixed Asset Fund 1/                893        1,073       1,217
Working Capital Fund                62           95          95
Total Equity               955        1,168       1,312
Long-term Liabilities
Constructlon Bank Loan             --            25          92
Current Liabilities
Short-term loan                     80           81          77
Accounts payable                   107          103          97
Due to Government                   42           12          (7)
Total Current Liabilities  229             196         167
Special Fund                       126          219         266
Total Liabilities
and Equity              1,310        1,608       1,837
1/ Includes Government allocation for capital construction and geological
exploration.



ANNEX 5.04
- 75 -
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Corporation (KOC)
Projected Income Statements (1983-87)
(In Million Yuan)
1983     1984     1985      1986     1987
Revenues
Sales Revenues                     518.4    556.8    633.6    840.0    923.9
Less: Sales Tax                    (55.6)   (57.0)   (59.6)  (100.8)  (110.8)
Net Sales Revenues              462.8    499.8    574.0    739.2    813.1
Other Revenues                      40.0     45.0      45.0     45.0     45.0
Total Revenues                  502.8    544.8    619.0    784.2    858.1
Expenses
Operating Cost                     253.8    270.0    277.2    314.9    347.8
Depreciation                       119.1    137.9    164.5    187.7    211.0
Other Expenses                      18.4      18.5     18.8     19.0      20.0
Total Expenses                  391.3    426.4    460.5    521.6    578.8
Income Before Interest and Taxes    111.5    118.4    158.5    262.6    279.3
Interest                          3.2      6.9       7.5     20.7     33.4
Taxes                            56.3     53.1      74.8    124.8    127.0
Net Income                          52.0     58.4      76.2    117.1    118.9
Operating Ratio                       0.81      0.82     0.77     0.68      0.69



- 76 -                ANNEX 5.05
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Corporation (KOC)
Projected Balance Sheets (1983--87)
(In Million Yuan)
1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
Assets
Fixed Assets                          2,156     2,447    2,841       3,190    3,540
Less: Acc. Depreciation              (1,173)  (1,307)  (1,474)  (1,670)  (1,895)
Net Fixed Assets                     983    1,140      1,367     1,520      1,645
Work in Progressa                       585        553       720       640       640
Total Net Fixed Assets           1,568     1,693     2,087     2,160    2,285
Current Assets
Inventories                             150        150       156       160       160
Accounts Receivable                      183       124       145       110        96
Cash                                      14        12        14        14        14
Total Current Assets               347       286       315       284        270
Special Fund Assets                         95        92        93        81         83
Total Assets                  2,010    2,071    2,495    2,525    2,638
Liabilities and Equity
Equity
Fixed Asset Fund                      1,482      1,619     1,964    1,923      1,989
Working Capital Fund                      33        33        33        33        33
Total Equity                     1,515     1,652    1,997    1,956    2,022
Long-term Liabilities
Construction Bany Loan                    86        71        56        41        26
World Bank Loan-                           -         3        67       196       270
Total L/T Liabilities               86        74       123       237        296
Current Liabilities
Short-term Loan                           61        67        71        76        76
Accounts Payable                         135        78        80        70        70
Total Current Liabilities          196       145       151       146        146
Special Fund                            213        200       224       186       174
Total Liabilities and
Equity                       2,(010    2,071    2,495    2,525        2,638
Current Ratio (times)                      1.8       2.0       2.1       2.0        1.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                         5/95      4/96      6/94     11/89     13/87
1/ Includes premium on foreign exchange loan.



- 77 -
ANNEX 5.06
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLETM PROJECT
Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Corporation (KOC)
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds (1983-87)
(In Million Yuan)
Total]
1983       1984      1985       1986       1Q87       1983-87         z
Sources
After-tax Income Before Interest  55.2          65.3       83.7      137.8      152.3         494.3         15
Add provision for:
Depreciation                   119.1      137.9      164.5      187.7     211.0          820.2        24
Overhaul                        81.4       94.2      112.4     128.2      144.1          560.3        17
Oilfield Upholding              50.8       52.0       54.4       60.5       66.5         284.2         8
Internal Cash Generation            306.5      349.4      415.0      514.2      573.9       2,159.0        64
Less: Remittances to Govt.         (105.6)   (112.2)   (143.5)   (196.0)   (209.4)           (766.7)      (22)
Internal Cash Retained        200.9      237.2      271.5      318.2      364.5        1,392.3        42
Short-term loan                       --         5.0        4.0        5.0        --           14.0        --
World Bank Loan-/                      --        2.8       64.4      128.8       74.0         270.0          8
Govt. Contributions                 356.6      320.2      423.0      273.4      322.4       1,695.6        50
TOTAL SOURCES               557.5      565.2      762.9      725.4      760.9       3,371.9        100
Uses
Investment !                        356.6      323.0      487.4      402.2      396.4       1,965.6         58
Overhaul and Maintenance            228.7      230.0      232.2      238.0      243.8       1,172.7        35
Debt Service                          9.2       21.9       22.5       35.7       48.4         137.7         4
Interest                           3.2        6.9        7.5       20.7       33.T          71.7 
Repayment                          6.0       15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0          66.0         2
Charges in Working Capital          (37.0)      (9.7)      20.8       49.5       72.3          95.9         3
TOTAL USES                  557.5      565.2      762.9      725.4      760.q       3,371.9        100
Debt Service Coverage                21.8       10.8       12.1        8.9        7.5          10.1
a/ Includes premium on foreign exchange loan.



ANNEX 5.07
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Company (KOC)
Funds Flow Between KOC and GOC (1980-87)
(In Million Yuan)
Actual               Total                          Projected                         Total
1980     1981      1982      1980-82         1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1983-87
To: GOC
Taxes                                           20.0      16.1     16.6         52.7        111.9    110.1    134.4    225.6    237.8           819.8
Sales Tax                                  20.0      16.1       6.6         352.7        55.6     57.O      59.6    100.8    110.8          383.8
Income Tax                                    -        -         -            -          56.3      53.1     74.8    124.8    127.0          436.0
Remittances                                    141.8    160.8    161.6         464.2        105.6    112.2    143.5    196.0    209.4           766.7
Net Income                                  91.2     94.1      98.3        283.6         46.0      43.2     61.2    102.1    103.9          356.4
Depreciation                                50.6     66.7      63.3        180.6         59.6      69.0     82.3      93.9    105.5         410.3
Debt Service to Construction Bank                 -        0.8      3.5          4.3          9.2      18.1      17.6     17.2      16.7         78.8       1
Total Outflow to GOC                   161.8    177.7    181.7          521.2        226.7    240.4    295.5    438.8    463.9         1,665.3
From: GOC
Equity Contribution                            313.3    291.0    303.5         907.8        356.6    320.2    423.0    273.4    322.4         1,695.6
Construction Bank Loan                            -      25.0      92.0        117.0           -         -         -        -         -          -
Total Inflow to KOC                    313.3    316.0    395.5        1,024.8        356.6    320.2    423.0    273.4    322.4         1,695.6
Net Outflow to GOC                            (151.5)  (138.3)  (213.8)       (503.6)      (129.9)   (79.8)  (127.5)   165.4    141.5           (30.3)



- 79 -
ANNEX 5.08
Page 1 of 1
CHINA
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
KOC - UNIT COST OF PRODUCTION
(In Yuan/Ton)
1983       1984       1985       1986      1987
Material                             7.04        7.00       7.00       7.00      7.00
Fuel                                 1.18        1.20       1.20       1.20      1.20
Power                                1.50        1.57       1.60       1.60      1.60
Wages                                3.52        3.52       3.52       3.52      3.52
Water & Gas Injection                9.04        9.00       9.00       9.00      9.00
Well Servicing                      10.38       10.35      10.30      10.30    10.30
Depreciation                        24.93      30.30      34.15       37.41    39.29
Oilfield Uphold                     12.60      12.60       12.60      12.60    12.60
Research & Experiments               3.56       3.50        3.50       3.50      3.50
Adm. Expenses                        6.20       6.10        6.14       6.05      6.00
Oilfield Expenses                    6.82       6.80       6.75        6.70      6.50
Less: Intercompany Transaction  (4.22)        (4.12)     (3.94)    (3.54)   (3.22)
TOTAL UNIT COST           82.55      87.82      91.82      95.34    97.29



- 80 -                            Annex 6.01
CHINA
Karamay Petroleum Project
Assumptions for Cost/Benefit Analysis
The cost/benefit analysis of the proposed exploration program has
been based on the following assumptions:
1. Benefit Streams
Crude oil value has been estimated at $210/ton (1983 price) and
escalated by 2% p.a. in real terms. Production has been assumed to start in
1988 for a period of 20 years.
2. Cost Streams
The cost streams include the investment cost for exploration and
development, production cost and freight cost.
(a) Exploration Cost - the exploration component to establish the
potential of light oil, including physical contingencies, is
estimated at $500 million.
(b) Development Cost - includes the expenditures for development wells
and surface construction which are estimated at $600 million and $120
million respectively.
(c) Production Cost - based on KOC's current production cost (excluding
depreciation) which has been estimated at $30/ton and escalated by 2%
in real terms.
(d) Freight Cost - the cost has been estimated under the following
conservative assumptions: (i) the local refinery capacity at
Xinjiang would not be expanded and all the production arising from
the proposed exploration program would need to be transported out of
Xinjiang; (ii) the refinery capacity at Lanzhou would not be
expanded. For incremental production up to 1.5 million tons, the
transport cost has been assumed to be similar to the present freight
to Lanzhou ($40 per ton), and additional transport cost ($20 per ton)
to other refineries has been estimated for production exceeding 1.5
million tons.



ANNEX 7.01
- 81 -
CHINA
Karamay Petroleum Project
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A description for the project of:
The geological exploration in the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area
The developing planning of the lower Wuerhe formation reservoir in
District No.8, by KOC, April 1983.
The Geologic Exploration Project of the Wuerhe-Hungchiba area by KOC,
April 1983
Stratigraphy of China of the Chinese Academy of Geological Sciences,
Beijing 1979
Collective drawings on Wuerhe-Hungchiba areas's exploration project
by KOC, April 1983
Detailed list of equipment by KOC, undated.
A development project for the lower Wuserhe formation oil reservoir
in district No.8 Karamay oil field by KOC. April 1983.
Heavy Oil:  Program for steam injection, collective drawings and
tables of Heavy Viscous crude.






IBRD 17771R
840                                    850
C H I N A 
KARAMAY PETROLEUM PROJECT
Area of Technical Assistance
Heavy Oil Deposits
Conventional Crude Oil Producing Fields
Sand  Dunes Area
Main Roads                                                               .46
Rivers                                                               -
Mountains
V4[\
kk
'5v                        J&/ICJ - .B AS/<t t                    -:
-450                                                                                                                                               45 ' 
Manas
86                                     To Tpa
440                                                                                                aiT  Na
A>                    Tarp..  \              -I                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.P.Ft.
~25         50           75 KiIometers            4A-0**
rW   a i      ar EN#0te0a e7e Wr d&k* end 5t                                                                                 Chn K*a. e-A
-e -i of r 10-:r sanpak a:;n5,   tapre a Samo    any PQ,er,
0- ,' a    i, a                                               -a                       ,;   ,'a'- Basin Area
84t                                      850                               NEP'AL                          Skh,..






-470~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                                                                                            API 1 \/th 
S O  V  I E T            U  N   I O   N                                                      (G            ;\f  
,                                           .jf                                        HIFOPUN                  N    N RPH E A S TJ
./   -                                              @~~~~~~~~~~~       ~        ~       ~ ~~~ ULAANBAATAR    AL ^t                          /'
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0;~~           N    G    0                                            I   A rg$<(      
,5 i,r                                  r U    v6o         00    \/ltSrllng/;                                                                                                    u  If                            A
W>                                     '    ,,,/-r                                                                    e                                      fffS,ll,; X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rhrrR a roSrdt rsn rr af Aor--   '' " R KR - f!-
r   desrrtisrcidvdylr f 4?szyF~u tt Yrnp/rtw ; a rlgA ,i ring - O ,,, r.2?dD,/M, f' J1
urfectandthetsoundrlMrhown    /    <=-&                 " i4ELaIghy        Y?lwh@9t  Zhorl? h?r,               ffs:\ f; " S  ,,, ,,  PEOP  ES REP_UBLIC
on w rAAoT o nt n h I/                                                                                                                      /d   
tRrt 0{ The Vhtid Sari SrKt the  H   /                                               . r        W                      - . - : . ; ^   :: <-         iJ z. .~~0 00E
OFrnt AF4NSTANBKr sp r1o                                           /       NW                           l_<    Lrtrg                             5.X<ft t                                 :       :iEf  
rsdrrsement rr rr rPeanCe Of / (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tk g sS *; s * r.h r3;; : 41z~~~PYO~GYA
S- O          iW i                                  'SCiA              f  --  I                                                                                      TOKTH ,$ E      T ,0     .:
-ao      W                                                                           rslmvst;4 . wtr!,tvl,v^n  X               g~~~~~~~~~~
f     g) thSI ARAJ  9<   
kd-.1 ~        ~        IP rINE Kb}t BosIuR./0                                                                                              ,5<   ' :          4 
H~~~~-  ITERAICA dOUORE- % z+'m   hl9hERSt  00dD8o 
,f     - ts,t                                                                       ef -.    p\Yl                                                         s1



