LOAN NIMBER 2426 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Karamay Petroleum Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2426 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEME1T, dated                              , 1984, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA ( reinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REC STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A through D of the Project will be carried out by
Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Development Corporation (herein--
after called KOC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to KOC part of
the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and KOC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and KOC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;


﻿- 2 -
(b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and KOC pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(c) "MOPI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Petroleum
Industry, or any successor thereto;
(d)  "KOC" means Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration and Develop-
ment Corporation, a state-owned enterpr4se of the Borrower estab-
lished in 1983, and operating pursuant to its Charter; and
(e) "Charter" means KOC's charter dated April 17, 1984.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred million three hundred thousand dollars ($100,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
tir hy agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03.    Except as the Bans. shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to two hundred fifty thousand one hundred twenty-five
dollars ($250,125).


﻿- 3 -
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"  means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. KOC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for Parts A through D of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Secti-on 3,01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part E of the
Project through MOPI with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and petroleum industry practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause KOC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of KOC therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable KOC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of $96,200,000
out of the proceeds of the Loan to KOC under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and KOC, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank,
which shall include, inter alia, same interest rate as specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, and a repayment period not
exceeding 20 years including a grace period not exceeding five
years. The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.


﻿-5-
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the studies under Part E of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants and experts as necessary whose selec-
tion, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall complete the studies and review the
findings with the Bank:
(i) by December 31, 1985 with respect to the gas uti-
lization study under Part E (i) of the Project;
(ii) by March 31, 1985 with respect to the study on the
design of the pilot projects for heavy oil recov-
ery under Part E(ii) of the Project; and
(iii) by   December   31,   1986  with  respect   to  the
techno-economic study under Part E (iii) of the
Project.
(c) Thereafter, the Borrower shall agree with the Bank on
the consequent action plan based on the studies referred to in
(b) above.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Part E of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress for Part E of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan related thereto, and to disclose their use
in such Part of the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and works sites included in Part E
of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan related thereto and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
Part E of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan related thereto and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower, with the assistance of KOC, shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿- 7 -
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part E of
the Project.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts


﻿-8-
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separato opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditures have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and. (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) KOC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that KOC will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and ad-


﻿- 9 -
versely the ability of KOC to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of KOC or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and KOC; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan
Agreement and the Project Agreement; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and KOC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, executed and delivered on behalf of KOC, and is
legally binding upon KOC in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the    Subsidiary  Loan Agreement has been      duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and KOC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and KOC in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.03. The date    e   OU  A/ CQr18qg1   , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.64 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                                   Telex:
FINANMIN                            22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By ~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By { ;/   q.9      aP l"     VC    a 5t-
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Parts A through D
of the Project
(1) Seismic surveys           18,400,000        100% of foreign
and interpreta-                            expenditures
tion
(2) Seismic data               7,700,000        100% of foreign
processing                                 expenditures
(3) Heavy oil studies/         6,000,000         100% of foreign
pilots                                     expenditures
(4) Equipment for             38,500,000        100% of foreign
exploration and                            expenditures and
support facilities                          100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory)
(5) Computer Center            5,000,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Laboratories               1,100,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Training center            1,650,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(8) Overseas training            500,000         100%
(9) Consultants'               3,300,000         100% of foreign
services                                    expenditures
Part E of the Project
(10) Heavy oil study/          3,300,000         100% of foreign
pilots                                      expenditures
(11) Consultants'                800,000         100% of foreign
services                                    expenditures
Other
(12) Fee                         250,125        Amount due under
Section 2.05 (a)
of this Agreement
(13) Unallocated              13,799,875
TOTAL         100,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate enount not exceeding the equivalent of
$3,000,000, may be made in respect of Category 1 on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October
1, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limit-
ing any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCE[EDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support an exploration
program in the Karamay oil belt and Hongshanzui-Chepaizi area,
evaluate the potential of heavy oil in the Karamay and Liaohe
oilfields, evolve the optimum method of thermal recovery, and
provide critically needed technical inputs for KOC's overall
exploration and development program. The Project consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Explora-ion and Appraisal Program
(i) Conducting   conventional, high   resolution  and  three
dimensional seismic surveys with three local and three
foreign crews for a period of about two years;
(ii) drilling about 100 exploration/appraisal wells in the
Wuerhe-Hungchiba area, about 10 exploration wells in
the Hongshanzui-Chepaizi area and about 260 appraisal/
development wells in the rest of Karamay area to
establish light oil potential;
(iii) improving oil field logistics by providing transport
and oilfield equipment (cementing, fracturing, work-
over, coring, testing, laboratory, formation and pro-
duction logging) necessary to support the exploration
and delineation program;
(iv) improving KOC's processing     capability  by  upgrading
Urumqi seismic processing computer center to accom-
modate future load of high resolution and three-
dimensional seismic surveys; and
(v) establishing a computer center at Karamay for storing
and processing of oilfield technical, administrative
and financial data.
Part B:   Heavy Oil Recovery
(i) Undertaking a study on the design of pilot projects for
thermal recovery of heavy oil in Karamay;
(ii) undertaking a techno-economic study to evaluate the
refining methods of heavy oil, the value of fractions


﻿- 16 -
it would yield and the means of transporting it out of
Karamay;
(iii) drilling and completion of the necessary injection-
cum-production and observation wells, installation of
surface/subsurface facilities including steam genera-
tors, air compressors and instrumentation and provision
of equipment and material for heavy oil laboratory;
(iv) drilling about 160 wells in the Karamay heavy oil depo-
sits to firm-up the extent and characteristics of the
various reservoirs; and
(v) monito-ing the performance of the pilot projects and
designing optimum processes for field-wide application.
Part C:   Training
(i) Establishing a training center for skilled workers and
equipping it with necessary audio-visual materials,
training equipment and library; and
(ii) training professionals through short local courses or
deputation abroad to appropriate institutions.
Part D:   Studies
Provision of experts and services to perform studies in
the following fields of activities: (i) stratigraphic
and structural studies in Karamay with the purpose of
outlining the most prospective areas; (ii) reservoir
engineering study for tight conglomerate reservoir
(Wuerhe); (iii) devising training curricula and train-
ing methods for skilled workers and professionals; and
(iv) a study on KOC's costing.
Part E:   Other Studies and Pilot Projects
(i) Undertaking a study for utilization of gas from South
China Sea in areas to be agreed upon between the Bor-
rower and the Bank;
(ii) undertaking a study on the design of pilot projects for
thermal recovery of heavy oil in Liaohe oilfield in
districts to be agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Bank;


﻿- 17 -
(iii) undertaking a techno-economic study to evaluate the
various options for processing heavy oil, the value of
fractions it would yield and the means of disposing of
oil and/or products out of Liaohe;
(iv) drilling and completion of the necessary injection-
cum-production and observation wells, installation of
surface/subsurface facilities including steam genera-
tors, air compressors and instrumentation, and provi-
sion of equipment and material for heavy oil labora-
tory;
(v) drilling ol exploratory/appraisal wells in the Liaohe
heavy oil deposits to firm up the extent and charac-
teristics of the various reservoirs; and
(vi) monitoring the performance of the pilot projects and
designing optimum processes for field-wide application.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1989
through   October 1, 2003                  3,345,000
On   April 1, 2004                              3,295,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
bef ore maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and services to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
services in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
and services remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
China may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in China
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in China equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 22 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for: (i) seismic survey services and equipment;
and (ii) seismic data processing may be awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluations and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in paragraph A.3 of this
Schedule and in Part A of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
1.2 and 3.9 thereof).
2.   Equipment, spare parts and instrumentation estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $150,000 each and aggregating not
more than the equivalent of $3,500,000, may be purchased directly
under a negotiated contract from the manufacturer.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With  respect   to  all  contracts  estimated  to   cost  the
equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedure-i to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time


﻿- 23 -
f or its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loar, Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bido, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   6      day of f(A/5, 198$.
FOR SECRETARY


