OFFCA
DOCUNIENTS     OAN NUMBER 2426 CHA
Project Agreement
(Karamay Petroleum Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KARAMAY OIL-GAS EXPLORATION AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated         GW,..-   cQ            1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2426 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           t     cQ9          , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE     STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called   the Bank)     d KARAMAY   OIL-GAS EXPLORATION AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter called KOC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the People's Republic of China (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred million three hundred thousand dollars ($100,300,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that KOC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and KOC, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
KOC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS KOC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Project records" means the records
referred to in Section 2.05 (b) (i) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. KOC shall carry out Parts A through D of the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-2-
administrative, financial, engineering and petroleum indu3try
practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist KOC in carrying out Part D
of the Project and the studies referred to in Sections 2.08
through 2.12 of this Agreement, KOC shall employ, or cause to be
employed, consultants and experts whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank, in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) KOC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by KOC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) KOC shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) KOC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for Parts A
through D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) KOC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress for Parts A through D of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in Parts
A through D of the Project and to examine the goods financed out


﻿- 3 -
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) furnish to the Bank ,t regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
Parts A through D of the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
reports on the progress of the Project, in a form acceptable to
the Bank, and at intervals to be agreed upon.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between KOC and the
Bank, KOC, with the assistance of the Borrower, shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by KOC and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e)   KOC shall enable the Bank's representatives upon
reasonable request to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.06. KOC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, KOC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) KOC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Parts A through D of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.


﻿(b) KOC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts A through D of the Project, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Loan, or the performance by KOC of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. KOC shall by December 31, 1985, or such later
date agreed by the Bank: (i) carry out under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, a study of reservoir engineering in
Wuerhe area; (ii) review the results of such study with the Bank;
and (iii) agree with the Bank on an action plan.
Section 2.09. KOC shall by December 31, 1986, or such later
date agreed by the Bank: (i) carry out under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, a regional sedimentological and struc-
tural study to investigate the composition and distribution of
reservoir bodies; (ii) review the results of such study with the
Bank; and (iii) agree with the Bank on the consequent course of
action.
Section 2.10. KOC shall: (a) under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank, carry out the study for the pilot projects
under Part B (i) and the techno-economic study under Part B (ii)
of the Project, and shall review the findings of such studies
with the Bank: (i) by March 31, 1985 with respect to the study on
the design of the pilot projects, and (ii) by December 31, 1986
with respect to the techno-economic study; and (b) agree with the
Bank on the consequent action plan.
Section 2.11. KOC shall carry out by March 31, 1986 or such
later date agreed by the Bank, a study under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, of KOC's costing.
Section 2.12. KOC shall carry out under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, a design of training methods for
skilled workers and shall review the findings and agree with the
Bank on the consequent action plan. The consultants to assist KOC
in carrying out such a design shall be appointed by March 31,
1985, or such later date agreed by the Bank.
Section 2.13. KOC shall exchange views periodically with the
Bank on the results of the seismic program under Part A of the
Project at Wuerhe-Hungchiba and Hongshanzui-Chepaizi areas, and
agree with the Bank on the consequent impact on the design of the
exploration program.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.14. KOC shall review periodically with the Bank
the exploration program of KOC for the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations
Section 3.01. KOC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and petroleum industry practices under the super-
vision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. KOC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and petroleum practices.
Section 3.03. KOC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) KOC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures.
(b) KOC shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditures, and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02.     KOC shall: (a)     have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and


﻿- 6 -
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, sepe-
rate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan are made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. KOC shall: (a) by October 1 of each year,
review with the Bank, KOC's current and future finances, includ-
ing its trend of production costs, budget variance analysis,
future investment program and related financing arrangements; and
(b) submit to, and review annually with the Bank, as part of the
review of KOC's finances referred to in (a) above, its financial
statements based on the rolling five-year plans.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of KOC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify KOC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
Foz the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For KOC:
Karamay Oil-Gas Exploration
and Development Corporation
Karamay, Xinjiang
People's Republic of China
Cable Address:
KARAMAY
3111 CN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KOC, or by KOC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the


﻿-8-
President of KOC or such other person or persons as the President
shall designate in writing, and KOC shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but onc instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
KARAMAY OIL-GAS EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
Autho  zed Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the 'oregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of Y, ,V 198    .
FOR SECRETARY


