Report No. 1711a-GM
Appraisal of
an Education Project                                                             FILE COPY
in The Gambia
April 5, 1978
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =            Dalasis (D)
US$1.00                  =            D 2.26
MEASURES
1 m                 =            3.28 ft.
1 m2                            10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2                            0.38 sq. mile
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE GAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................  i- iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ................................................. ......    1
II.  THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING ..............................                1
A.   Socio-Economic Conditions and Plans ...              .............  I
B.   Manpower and Training Requirements .............         ....      2
C.   The Education System .....          ........................       3
D.   The Health System ......           ............................    6
E.   The Role of IDA ...... . ..............................            7
III. THE PROJECT            .............................................     7
A.   Summary ............................................               7
B.   Project Composition           ..................... .              8
C.    Project Costs and Financing ......... ..           .............   12
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................................    15
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................   17
A.   Assurances .........................................    17
B.   Conditions .........................................    18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
The Gambia in April 1977. The mission consisted of Messrs. W. Cooper
(technical educator), A. Verspoor (economist), B. Liese (medical specialist),
R. Gomez (research assistant) and K. El Jack (Unesco architect). Messrs. G.
Hadjicostas (civil engineer) and R. Skolnik (economist) contributed to the
preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
ANNEXES
1         Comparative Education Indicators
2         The Education System
3         The Health System
4         Manpower:  Employment by Occupation
5         Cost Summary
6         Contingency Allowances
7         Assumed Price Increases, 1978-81
8         IDA Financing by Major Category of Expenditure
9         Sumnmary of Technical Assistance and Fellowships
lLO(a), (b) Project Implementation Schedule
:Li        Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
12         Disbursements by Major Category of Expenditure
CHARTS
1         The Education System
2         Educational Pyramid, 1976/77
MAP         IBRD 13094 (R)



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
MDI     -     Management Development Institute
MEPID   -     Ministry of Economic Planning
and Industrial Development
PPF     -     Project Preparation Facility
UNDP    -     United Nations Development Programme
VTC     -     Vocational Training Center
WHO     -     World Health Organization






THE GAMBIA
BASIC DATA
General:
Land area                                    4,000 sq. miles
Population (1976)                          540,000
% urban                                       15%
Total population growth rate                     2.4%
Urban population growth rate                     4.2%
Modern sector labor force                        4.3%
Education:
Total No.        Female      Enrollment Ratio
Enrollments (1976/77):
Primary                   25,525            32%        33% (7-12 age group)
Secondary                  6,824            30%        15% (13-17 age group)
Secondary technical    (4,625)
Senior secondary        (2,199)
Tertiary                     500                        3%
Technical/vocational      (256)           23%
Health training            (77)           65%
Teacher training          (129)           36%
Agricultural training      (38)
Student/Teacher
Total No.       Female    Qualified        Ratio
Teachers (1976/77):          1,238             -           -              -
Primary                      829            34%        54%             31
Secondary                    373            24%        67%             18
Technical/vocational          23             9%        80%             11
Teacher training              14            16%        73%              9






THE GAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMLARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an education project in The Gambia, for
which an IDA credit of US$5.5 million is proposed.
Background
ii.       The education system in The Gambia is patterned on the British
system and still has close links with it at all levels. It consists of a
six-year primary and a five-year secondary cycle, and provides post-secondary
training for teachers, technicians, health personnel and agricultural exten-
sion workers. University education is found abroad. Educational development
in the past decade has led to a rapid expansion of primary and secondary
enrollments favoring the urban population. A growing imbalance between the
output of the education system and the requirements of the labor market,
rising unemployment, urban drift and the widening urban/rural education gap
have prompted the Government to reassess its education policies.
iii.      The new Education Plan (1975-1985) pays attention to regional dis-
parities, access to education and improvements in quality, and aims to pro-
duce the manpower for public administration, teaching and health services,
and technical, clerical and managerial positions throughout the economy.
Hence, secondary-level education will be restrained in favor of primary
education, which will be upgraded and expanded, particularly in the rural
areas. New primary curricula are being developed and primary teacher train-
ing will be improved. In secondary schools, teaching of science and practi-
cal subjects will be expanded. Technical education will be improved and
employers will be involved in determining training requirements. Training
of middle-level health personnel will be expanded to redress the urban/rural
imbalance in health care delivery, and the administrative capacity of the
public sector will be improved by upgrading middle-level managerial and
administrative staff.
iv.       The proposed project would focus on five areas of constraint upon
which the Government wishes to act: first, it would expand and improve
technical/vocational training; second, it would increase the number of middle-
level health personnel and strengthen the planning capacity of the Ministry
of Health; third, it would improve management and administrative capability
in the public and para-public sectors; fourth, it would support qualitative
improvement of secondary education; and fifth, it would strengthen the admin-
istrative capacity of the Ministry of Education and prepare a plan for the
development of primary education.
Project Description
v.        The project would:



- ii -
(a)  Improve technical training by financing construction, fur-
niture and equipment for a Technical Institute in Banjul; three
man-years of technical assistance to establish the Institute;
and eight man-years of fellowships for technical upgrading and
teacher training of Gambian instructors. The Institute would
train apprentices, upgrade skilled workers and offer pre-
employment training in mechanical, automotive and construction
trades. The Institute would maintain links with employers
through a National Vocational Training Board which would
set training policy, identify training needs and coordinate
vocational training on a national scale. The Institute
would be managed by a Board of Governors representing the
public and. private sectors. The Board of Governors would
be established not later than January 31, 1979 and would be
placed under the President's Office.
(b)  Strengthen health manpower training by financing (i) construc-
tion, furniture and equipment for an extension to the School of
Nursing in Banjul, a training center for auxiliary nurses at
Bansang, and hostel accommodation at two rural health centers
for field training of nurses; and (ii) two man-years of tech-
nical assistance to help plan and implement the expansion of
health delivery in the rural areas, and six man-months of
consultant services for training program design. The expanded
School of Nursing in Banjul would be used to train graduate
and auxiliary nurses and for in-service training of middle and
lower-level health staff, especially for rural health centers.
The proposed auxiliary nurses training center would train
lower-level auxiliary personnel to staff rural clinics and
health centers being upgraded or expanded. An appropriate
curriculum for auxiliary nursing training would be submitted
to IDA for review not later than January 31, 1980, and a study
of the infrastructure, manpower requirements and recurrent cost
implications of the proposed expansion of the health system
would be submitted to IDA for review not later than January 31,
1981.
(c)  Establish management development training by financing con-
struction, furniture and equipment for a small Management
Development Institute, three man-years of technical assistance
to establish the Institute, and three man-months of consultant
support for program design. The Institute would train middle-
level managers and administrators for the public and para-
public sectors, and offer programs in general management and
administration, office management, personnel supervision and
business finance. The Institute would be managed by a Board
of Governors representing central government, local councils,
public corporations and private enterprise. The Board of
Governors would be established not later than January 31, 1979,
under the President's Office.



- iii -
(d)  Upgrade secondary education by financing (i) construction,
furniture and equipment for specialist rooms to teach
science, home economics, arts and crafts, and wood and
metal work at four secondary technical schools and one
secondary high school; and (ii) 40 man-years of fellowships
to train and upgrade science and practical subject teachers
for the secondary technical schools. Detailed curricula
for science and practical subjects for secondary technical
schools would be developed and submitted to IDA for review
not later than September 30, 1980. Detailed proposals for
a science and technical teacher training program would be
submitted to IDA for review not later than December 31,
1978.
(e)  Improve educational administration and planning by financing
(i) construction, furniture, equipment and vehicles for
three regional education centers and a production unit
for school furniture; and (ii) two man-years of technical
assistance to set up an educational planning unit, one
man-year of specialist services to assist in developing
future education and training projects, and two man-years
of fellowships to train a Gambian educator in planning and
statistics. The planning unit's first task would be to prepare
a school map and formulate, not later than July 31, 1980, a
detailed plan for expanding primary education in rural areas.
The education centers would provide an administrative base for
the regional education officers, and the production unit would
manufacture and repair simple school furniture.
Project Cost and Financing
vi.       The estimated cost of the project, net of taxes, is US$6.5 million.
The total project cost is estimated at US$7.0 million, including taxes of
US$0.5 million. The foreign exchange component, estimated at US$5.5 million
and representing about 85% of the net-of-tax project cost, would be financed
by the IDA credit. The balance would be financed by the Government. Retro-
active financing up to US$100,000 is recommended to pay for the cost of
establishing the project unit and the cost of preparing architectural working
drawings and tender documents, during the period between credit negotiations
and credit signature.
Project Implementation
vii.      A project unit would be established within the Ministry of Economic
Planning and Industrial Development and would be responsible for the imple-
mentation and administration of the project. The project unit staff would
consist of a project coordinator, an accountant, two clerks of works, and a
procurement officer to be financed by the Government, and a project manager
and a project architect to be recruited internationally and financed from the
proceeds of the credit. The project unit would be established and the project
coordinator appointed before credit effectiveness. The project unit would be



- iv -
advised by an interministerial coordinating committee representing all govern-
ment agencies and dlepartments concerned with the project. The coordinating
committee would be established not later than July 31, 1978.
Procurement and Disbursement
viii.      Civil works valued at US$3.1 million, and furniture, equipment and
vehicles valued at US$1.1 million would be procured on the basis of interria-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Domestic
contractors would be given a preference of 7-1/2% in the evaluation of bids
for civil works. Domestic manufactures of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the CIF price of competing imports
or the total applicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower.
Furniture, equipment, vehicles and other items which cannot be grouped in
packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent each, or which are not suitable for
international competitive bidding, would be procured by inviting quotations
from reliable supp:Liers or in accordance with local competitive bidding pro-
cedures satisfactory to IDA.  The value of such items would not exceed US$0.2
million. Disbursements from the credit account would cover (a) 70% of the
total civil works expenditures; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported, 70% of expenditures for imported but locally procured and 100% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture and equipment; (c) 100%
of total expenditures for professional services, technical assistance and
fellowships. The credit also includes US$40,000 to refund an advance from
the Project Preparation Facility.
Project Benefits and Risks
ix.       The shortage of skilled and literate manpower is one of the prin-
cipal development constraints in The Gambia. The proposed project would
support the Governiment's education and training policies and help to overcome
manpower constraints by (a) training and upgrading skilled workers, techni-
cians, managers and administrators, and middle-level health personnel, (b)
improving the quality of secondary education, and (c) planning for the ex-
pansion of primary education to rural areas. The project does not present
any unusual risks.
x.        The proposed project forms a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$5.5 million.



THE GAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Discussions with the Government of The Gambia on priorities in
the education sector began with an IDA mission that visited the country
in November 1975. This was followed, in May 1976, by an IDA mission that
started preparation of a project for IDA financing. Detailed preparation
of the major project components was completed by consultants employed by
the Government and financed under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF),
and by technical assistance provided through the UNDP. The project was
appraised in April 1977 by an IDA mission that consisted of Messrs.
W. Cooper (technical educator), A. Verspoor (economist), B. Liese (medical
specialist), R. Gomez (research assistant) and K. El Jack (Unesco architect).
1.02      This would be the first Bank Group education project in The Gambia.
It would provide US$5.5 million to help the Government to implement some of
its educational and manpower development strategies, and would (a) expand and
improve the training of middle and lower-level health personnel, technical and
skilled workers; (b) improve managerial and administrative capability in the
public and para-public sectors; and (c) improve secondary education, establish
an educational planning capacity and strengthen educational administration.
II. THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
A.   Socio-Economic Conditions and Plans
2.01      The Gambia is a small but relatively densely populated country
with a land area of about 4,000 square miles and a population of 540,000
(1976 est.). It occupies a narrow strip, 15-30 miles wide and 200 miles
long, on both sides of the Gambia River. Except for its coastline, the
country is completely surrounded by Senegal. The population growth rate
for the country at large is estimated at 2.4% per year; in the urban Banjul-
Kombo area where about 15% of the population live, the annual growth rate is
about 4.2%.   Per capita income was estimated in 1976 at US$180, with con-
siderable regional variations: the per capita income of the urban population
is about 3.6 times that of the rural population.
2.02      Agriculture, livestock and fisheries account for 60% of the
country's total GDP and employ about 85% of the active population. The
economy consists mainly of traditional small-scale farming and is heavily
dependent on groundnuts that produce 90% of the country's foreign exchange
earnings. Real growth in GDP between 1964 and 1974 averaged 4.7%, with
extreme annual fluctuations. Record groundnut prices in 1974 and 1975
permitted a substantial increase in foreign exchange reserves. Since 1975,
however, production levels and prices of groundnuts have declined and real
GDP has risen very little.



2.03      The Government has been successful in financing recurrent ex-
penditure from current revenue, largely because of its conservative public
expenditure policy and effective revenue collection. In 1975-76, however,
a deficit appeared on the current account, mainly because of an upward revi-
sion of wages and salaries for public service employees and a substantial
increase in the cost of imports caused by a decline in the value of Gambia's
currency. The Governument is using reserves to compensate for current budget
deficits and is reviewing measures to reduce expenditures, notably through a
reduction in the public payroll.
2.04      The first Five-Year Development Plan (1975-1980) sets the target
of GDP growth at 4.5%' annually in real terms. The overriding objective of
the Plan is to develop the rural areas.  This involves a complex of strategies
that in,-lude educational and agricultural development, improvements in rural
communications, utilities and social services, creation of alternative growth
centers to Banjul, and incentives for civil servants to live in rural areas.
B.   Mlanpower and Training Requirements
Characteristics of the Present Labor Force
2.05      Of the estimated 287,000 members of the labor force, 80% live in the
rural areas, most of them wholly or primarily engaged in farming. According
to the Government's quarterly employment surveys and a special manpower survey
by the Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development (MEPID) under-
taken in December 1974, only 23,000 people are identifiable as working in the
modern sector. Of these, about 16,000 (70%) are employed by governmental
and quasi-governmental agencies. The largest employers are food manufacturing
(mainly groundnut and fish processing), construction, the groundnut trade,
transport, storage and communications, tourism, and education services (Annex
4, Table 1). With the exception of tourism and the groundnut trade, the
public sector provides the bulk of modern sector employment. The occupational
distribution of the labor force established by the special manpower survey
(Annex 4, Table 2) shows that unskilled workers predominate. It can also
be assumed that most of the labor force categorized as "production workers"
are at best only sermi-skilled. Relative to the total modern sector labor
force, excluding the unskilled and semi-skilled levels, the proportion of
expatriates is 13%.
Educational Attainment in the Modern Labor Force
2.06      The educational level of the Gambian population is generally low.
According to the 1974 MEPID manpower survey, about 70% of the private sector
labor force had not completed primary education. Some 20% had completed
primary and/or secondary technical school and about 10% had 5 years of sec-
ondary high school. Only 45% of the workers employed in the private sector
had received some skill training, consisting mainly of on-the-job training
by employers, and 190 out of 6,800 workers (about 3%) had been on vocational
training courses of durations varying from three months to five years; only
34, or less than 1%, had completed an apprenticeship.



- 3 -
Pro-jected Manpower Demand - Modern Sector
2.07      Annex 4, Table 3, shows projections of employment by occupational
group. Based on the growth targets projected in the Five-Year Development
Plan (1975-1980), the modern sector will require an additional 9,000 workers
by 1980, or about 1,800 new workers per year. About 40% of the total demand
is expected to be for unskilled workers, 20% for production workers, and 13%
for workers in the service sector; the remainder of the demand would include
professional, technical and managerial workers (9%), clerical and sales
workers (11%), and agricultural extension workers (3%). Among the occupational
groups which can or could be trained in The Gambia, the largest demand is
expected to be for nurses, teachers, clerical and sales workers, agricultural
extension workers, mechanics, electricians, carpenters and masons. Expansion
and Gambianization of the public and para-public sectors will contribute
significantly to the need for trained managers and supervisors, especially at
the middle and lower levels.
2.08      The estimated annual requirement of 1,800 new workers would need to
be made up of about 1,200 people with primary education, 550 with secondary
education and/or vocational training, and 50 with higher education. However,
of the 2,200 persons actually entering the labor market each year, about 1,000
have completed primary school, 1,000 have had secondary education and
approximately 200 have received some additional vocational or professional
training. Therefore, job opportunities for secondary school leavers, espe-
cially those who do not possess specific skills, are certain to be bleak and
shortageg of qualified manpower with technical qualifications and skills will
continue to persist.
C.   The Education System
Structure
2.09      The Gambian education system is patterned on the British system and
still maintains strong links with it in terms of examinations, standards and
professional qualifications. Primary school is six years, and beginning in
school year 1976/77 the admission age was raised from 7 to 8 years. Secondary
education consists of four years of secondary technical school or five years
of secondary high school. There are five institutions providing post-secondary
non-university education. The system is administered by the Department of
Education in the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The role of private
religious organizations is considerable, particularly in secondary education,
since they own and operate six of the seven secondary high schools and five of
the sixteen secondary technical schools.
2.10      Admission to secondary school is regulated by an entrance examina-
tion. About 40% of the pupils enrolled in primary grade 6 pass this examina-
tion and continue their studies. Recruitment for the post-secondary institu-
tions is done among secondary school graduates (grade 11) for the Teacher
Training College, the School of Nursing and the School of Public Health, and
among secondary technical school graduates (grade 10) for the Vocational
Training Center (para. 2.16) and the Agricultural and Technical Center.



-4-
Administration
2.11      The Ministry of Education Youth and Sports has two departments:
the Department of Education, directed by a Chief Education Officer, and the
Department of Youth and Sports. The administrative structure of the Department
of Education is small; it consists of a central administrative unit, an educa-
tion inspectorate, a small but efficient statistical office, and a recently
established curriculum development center. The Department has no educational
planning capacity, and planning generally occurs on an ad-hoc basis under the
direction of the Chief Education Officer. Administration and supervision of
the school system is centralized in Banjul. The reluctance of supervisory
staff to travel up-country and difficulties in communications and transporta-
tion generally result in inadequate support for the rural schools. A scheme
to decentralize certain administrative functions to the regions has made a
modest start with the recent appointment of four regional education officers.
Access to Education
2.12      Total enrollment in primary schools is about 25,500 pupils (1976/77).
representing 33% of the 7-12 age group. There are striking geographic dis-
parities in the access to education: in the urban Banjul-Kombo area where
15% of the population live, about 82% of the eligible children are enrolled
in primary school; this ratio drops to about 24% for the rural areas. Total
enrollment in secondary schools is about 6,800 students (1976/77), represent-
ing about 15% of the 13-17 age group.  At the secondary level there is also
a concentration of schools in Banjul: five of the 16 secondary technical
schools and five oi- the seven secondary high schools are located there.
Access to formal public education in rural areas is restricted by the lack
of school buildings and by prevailing attitudes of Muslim parents, who often
prefer to send theLr children to a Koranic school. The Government is trying
to increase public school attendance by providing for religious (Koranic)
instruction in the primary and secondary schools.
2.13      Thirty-two percent of the pupils in primary schools are girls, re-
presenting 23% of the 7-12 female population. In secondary schools 30% of
the pupils are girls, representing 19% of the 13-17 female population. There
are considerable regional fluctuations in the participation of girls:  in
Banjul, 48% of the primary pupils are girls, while in the rural Lower River
Division, for economic and religious reasons, only 17% of the primary pupils
are girls.
Quality of Education
2.14      The quality of primary education is generally low, particularly
outside the urban Banjul-Kombo area. There is no official curriculum, but
a curriculum development center supported by UNDP has started to develop a
primary curriculum. The quality of many school buildings in rural areas is
very poor. Few schools have furniture and the provision of school books
and supplies is inadequate, About 54% of the 830 primary school teachers
are qualified, but the proportion of qualified teachers decreases in the
rural areas. Pedagogical and administrative supervision of schools in rural
areas is infrequent.



-5-
2.15      The secondary high schools are generally well organized and ade-
quately staffed. The secondary technical schools located in Banjul are
accommodated in suitable buildings which are reasonably well equipped, but
rural schools lack adequate facilities and equipment for teaching science and
practical subjects. In addition, the four-year program offered by these
schools is deficient in scientific and skill content. To improve the quality
of secondary technical education, the Government has decided to extend the
program from four to five years and to give the curricula a more practical
orientation. Teachers for practical and science courses are available in The
Gambia, but they generally need to be upgraded.
2.16      The principal institution for pre-employment vocational training is
the Vocational Training Center (VTC) in Banjul, which offers one- and two-year
courses in a number of basic trades. The technical teaching staff is qualified
and experienced, but the VTC is accommodated in small and dilapidated buildings
and the available staff and equipment are not adequate to conduct the addi-
tional training courses needed to meet the demand for skilled workers.
Financing of Education
2.17      Government expenditures for education, which are about 1.6% of GNP
and about 15% of the budget, are low by West African standards where they
usually range from 3 to 5% of GNP and 20 to 30% of the budget. The Govern-
ment is aware that expenditures for education are low and has been increasing
budgetary allocations in recent years. Much of this increase, however, has
been absorbed by higher teachers' salaries and has not resulted in an expan-
sion of the school system. This is reflected in sharply rising unit costs
(Annex 2, Table 3), particularly for primary and secondary technical schools.
In 1974/75 the direct per pupil costs were estimated at US$24 for primary
schools and US$48 for secondary technical schools; the 1976/77 budgeted costs
were US$57 and US$87, respectively. In 1976/77 the allocation for teachers'
salaries was approximately 78% of the education budget, about 20% was spent on
student allowances and boarding, while the provision for books, equipment and
supplies was only 2% (Annex 2, Table 2).
Government Strategy - Education
2.18      The Government's most important policy objectives for education
and training over the ten year period 1976-1986 are to improve the quality
of education, particularly at primary and secondary level, improve access
to education for the rural population, and align education and training
better with employment needs. To address these objectives, Government is
considering: (a) doubling primary school enrollment and introducing a new
primary school curriculum; (b) improving secondary technical school curricula
and providing basic skill training programs to equip students better for
informal sector employment or self-employment; (c) concentrating on qualita-
tive improvements at the post-secondary level and relating job-specific skill
training to labor market needs. Expansion of primary education is an important
objective but Government is taking a cautious approach to expansion due to



- 6 -
financial constraints and the need to plan and implement an effective ex-
pansion program. To assess its educational programs and formulate a long-
range strategy for educational development, the Government intends to estab-
lish a planning unit within the Ministry of Education. In addition, to
coordinate manpower and training requirements on a national scale, the Govern-
ment has decided to strengthen the National Vocational Training Board which
was established in 1966 under the President's Office. This Board would set
overall training policy, identify needs in all sectors of the economy, coordi-
nate vocational training programs, prepare legislation setting up formal
apprentice schemes, and be responsible for the operation of some of the
country's vocational training facilities.
D.   The Health System
Health Conditions
2.19      The health of the Gambian population is typical for the West African
region. The birth rate, death rate and infant mortality rate are high and
life expectancy is extremely low. In The Gambia, the crude birth rate is 43
per 1,000--about average for West African countries. Infant mortality in the
rural areas is 217 per 1,000, which exceeds the average for West Africa and is
about 12 times that for developed countries. The urban areas, with better
medical facilities, have an infant mortality rate of about 53 per 1,000, which
is much lower than the national average.  The most common diseases include
measles, malaria, gastroenteritis and other endemic infections, and are
generally associated with malnutrition, unsanitary living conditions and
unsafe water supply. Mothers and children are particularly affected, and
maternal and child mortality is very high, especially in the rural areas.
Health Facilities
2.20      Health facilities in The Gambia consist of a 260-bed hospital in
Banjul, an 80-bed hospital in Bansang, and a network of 10 health centers and
16 dispensaries covering the rural areas. There are also 40 rural health
posts or sub-dispensaries which are visisted fairly regularly by staff from
the dispensaries or health centers. The National Development Plan envisages
establishing five new health centers outside the Banjul-Kombo area, and up-
grading, four rural health posts to dispensary level. In addition, a 50-bed
hospital will be constructed at Kaur, about 120 miles from Banjul. The
health budget for 1976/77 is US$2.0 million, or about 10% of total govern-
ment expenditures (2% of GDP), one of the highest percentages in Africa.
About 10% of the budget is allocated to preventive services and 66% is spent
for personnel.
Health Manpower
2.21      There is a critical shortage of trained health personnel in The
Gambia, even when compared with other West African countries. There are only
20 physicians and two dentists, working mostly in the urban areas, where only
one-fifth of the population live. Nurses, midwives, dispensers, health



inspec:tors and other middle-level health personnel are also in short supply.
For example, the current stock of 180 graduate nurses and midwives provides an
average of one nurse for every 3,000 inhabitants, about one-tenth the nursing
establishment recommended by WHO. In addition, most nursing staff work in
urban hospitals and clinics, leaving the rural areas deprived of qualified
staff. Many health centers and dispensaries are understaffed or staffed
with inappropriately trained personnel, lack basic medical supplies, and
are not regularly supervised. Thus, the quality and scope of services in
nearly all existing rural health units are deficient.
Government Strategy - Health
2.22      The National Development Plan emphasizes the improvement of basic
rural health services through upgrading existing health centers and establish-
ing new rural health centers and clinics. The additional personnel needed
to staff these facilities will be mainly at the lower and middle level and will
include nurses, midwives, sanitary inspectors and other auxiliary health person-
nel. To implement this proposed program of expansion of health facilities and
staff training, the Government intends to strengthen the planning capacity of
the Ministry of Health and expand the training of para-medical personnel.
E.   The Role of IDA
2.23      Bank group assistance would support the Government's efforts to
improve the efficiency and quality of the education system and to adapt its
training system to national employment needs:
(a)  With respect to general education, the project would assist
in (i) improving the teaching of science and practical sub-
jects at the secondary level; (ii) preparing a school map,
developing plans for building primary schools in rural areas,
and producing simple school furniture; and (iii) strengthen-
ing educational administration and planning.
(b)  With respect to vocational training, the project would assist
in (i) improving technical and vocational training and involv-
ing employers in determining training programs; and (ii) up-
grading the managerial and administrative capacity in the public
and para-public sectors.
(c)  With respect to health training, the project would assist in
increasing the supply of trained health manpower and relating their
training to the needs of the rural communities.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Summary
3.01      The proposed project would be implemented between 1978 and 1983,
and would comprise:



-8-
(a) Construction, furniture and equipment for:
(i)  a technical institute;
(ii)  a training center for auxiliary nurses, an
extetnsion to the School of Nursing, and two
small hostels for field training of nursing
stafif;
(iii)  a management development institute;
(iv) specialist rooms for science, technology and
practical work at four secondary technical
schools and one scondary high school; and
(v)  three regional education centers and a pro-
duction unit for school furniture.
(b)  Equipment and materials for an educational planning
unit and a project unit; and
(c)  Provision of 19 man-years of technical assistance
and consulting services, and 50 man-years of fellowships
for items (a)i, ii, iii, iv and (b) above.
B.   Project Composition
Technical Training
3.02      The project would finance construction, furniture and equipment
for a 260-capacity Technical Institute in Kanifing, Banjul's industrial area;
three man-years of technical assistance to establish the Institute; and
eight man-years of fellowships for technical upgrading and teacher training
of Gambian instructors.
3.03      The Institute would offer pre-employment, upgrading, and appren-
tice programs in mechanical, electrical, automotive and construction trades,
and would train annually about 120 skilled workers and lower-level techni-
cians. Courses in typing and office practice would produce about 40
trained office personnel per year. Full-time technical students would be
drawn mainly from secondary technical schools and would follow existing
training programs that are satisfactory to the Association. Arrangements
for practical attachments to industry in the Banjul-Kombo area would be made
by th,e Institute. Apprentices would be nominated for training by government
departments and by the private sector and would follow full- or part-time
programs, depending on the needs of employers. The instructional staff of
the existing Vocational Training Center (para. 2.16) would be transferred to
the new Institute.



- 9 -
3.04      The Institute would be managed by a Board of Governors whose
membership would consist of representatives from the Departments of Educa-
tion, Health, and Labor; the Ministry of Works and Communications; the
Chamber of Commerce; the trade unions; and the private sector. As a condi-
tion for cr-dit effectiveness, the Government should formally establish
the proposed Technical Institute, to be managed by a Board of Governors,
constituted not later than January 31, 1979 under the President's Office, with
terms of reference acceptable to IDA.   The Institute would maintain links
with employers through the National Vocational Training Board (para. 2.18),
which would set training policy, identify training needs and coordinate
vocational training on a national scale. The UNDP is financing two vocational
training specialists to assist the Board (para. 2.18) in setting up vocational
training and apprenticeship programs.
Health Manpower Training
3.05      Auxiliary Nurses Training Center.  The project would finance con-
struction, furniture and equipment for a 20-capacity training center for
auxiliary nurses, attached to the rural hospital in Bansang, and for two 6-bed
hostels at the Kuntaur and Kerewan rural health centers to accommodate auxiliary
and graduate nurses on field training. The proposed training center would
recruit male and female students mainly from the rural areas and would provide
an 18-month training program with practical work at the rural hospital and the
two rural health centers. The training center would produce about 12 auxiliary
nurses per year. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Gov-
ernment that a curriculum which combines training for community and hospital
services and defines entrance qualifications will be submitted to IDA for
review not later than January 31, 1980. The project would provide six months
of consulting services to assist the Ministry of Health in developing suitable
training programs.
3.06      School of Nursing.  The project would finance construction, furni-
ture and equipment for additional classrooms, a laboratory, and a men's hostel
at the School of Nursing in Banjul. The additional teaching space would be
used for the training of graduate and auxiliary nurses and for in-service
training of middle- and lower-level health staff. To increase the intake of
male student nurses, the project would provide hostel accommodation for 24
men. Adequate space for this proposed expansion is available on the existing
school site.
3.07      Health planning.  The project would finance two man-years of tech-
nical assistance to help the Ministry of Health to plan and implement the
exparLsion of the health delivery system proposed in the National Development
Plan. This assistance would include a study of the infrastructure, man-
power, and recurrent financing requirements of the proposed expansion of the
health system. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that this study
will be submitted to IDA for comment not later than January 31, 1981.



- 10 -
Management Development
3.08      The project would finance construction, furniture and equipment
for a Management Development Institute (MDI) to train managers and adminis-
trators in the public and para-public sectors. The Institute would concen-
trate initially on training middle-level staff and would offer courses and
seminars, ranging in duration from one day to several weeks, in management
and administration skills, office procedures, personnel supervision and
business finance.  The Institute would also offer evening courses in account-
ing, bookkeeping and office procedures, and would conduct management seminars
once or twice a year. The MDI would have an annual throughput of 150 to 200
students. Participants would be drawn principally from the approximately
1,500 middle and upper level professionals in the public service and paras-
tatal corporations. The Institute would be managed by a Board of Governors
representing central government, local councils, public corporations and
private enterprises. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that the Board of Governors will be established under the Office of
the President and its members appointed not later than January 31, 1979.
3.09      To help establish the MDI, the project would finance three man-
years of technical assistance for a general management specialist and three
man-months of consultant support for program design. The types of training
programs and their detailed syllabi would be based on preliminary studies
prepared by the Government and agreed during project appraisal. The UNDP
has agreed to finance two man-years of technical assistance for an account-
ing and financial management specialist, six months of consulting services
for guest lecturers, and four man-years of fellowships for Gambian staff
training.
Secondary School Upgrading
3.10      The project would finance construction, furniture and equipment
for about 30 practical teaching areas for wood and metal work, home econo-
mics, science, and arts and crafts, at four secondary technical schools in
Pakalinding, Brikama, Latrikunda and Banjul Crab Island, and at one up-
country secondary high school in Georgetown, providing an additional capacity
of 750 student places. This would allow the Government to start implement-
ing its development plan for secondary education by converting four existing
4-year junior secondlary schools into 5-year secondary technical schools
and upgrading the provisions for science and technical teaching at one
of the secondary high schools. Detailed curricula would be developed by
the curriculum development center in the Department of Education, in coopera-
tion with the Teacher Training College, and with technical assistance from
the UNDP and the British Council. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that detailed curricula for science and practical
subjects for secondary technical schools will be developed and submitted to
IDA for review not later than September 30, 1980.
3.11      Science and practical subject teachers for secondary technical
schools in The Gambia often lack adequate pedagogical training and have
little experience with practical instruction in well-equipped laboratories and



- 11 -
workshops. The Government intends to provide upgrading courses for in-service
teachers, using specialized facilities to be constructed at the proposed Gambia
(teacher training) College. However, until construction of this college is
completed in the early 1980s, facilities for this specialized training will
not be available in The Gambia. To ensure that teachers will be trained when
the project-financed secondary school improvements are completed, the project
would finance about 40 man-years of fellowships for teacher training. Fellow-
ship holders would follow specially arranged workshops and seminars in The
Gambia and technical teacher training courses in other West African countries.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that a
detailed inventory of training needs and proposals for the training and up-
grading of science and technical teachers will be submitted to IDA for review
not later than December 31, 1978. For the secondary high school in Georgetown,
qualified teachers for science and technical subjects are available.
Regional Education Centers
3.12      The project would finance construction, furniture, equipment and
three vehicles for regional education centers at Kerewan, Kanifing and Brikama,
and a production unit for school furniture at Kanifing. The education centers
would provide administrative offices for the regional education officer (para.
2.11), a store for school supplies, books and teaching materials and a seminar
room for teacher retraining and upgrading. The regional education officers
would be responsible to the Department of Education for the supervision of
primary and secondary schools in their respective districts. Their terms of
reference were discussed and agreed during appraisal. The production unit
would consist of a general-purpose workshop and some storage facilities, and
would be attached to the Kanifing regional education center, adjacent to the
proposed Technical Institute (para. 3.02). The production unit would manufac-
ture and repair school furniture for the Ministry of Education. The unit
would be under the control of a manager/instructor and would employ 6-10
secondary technical school graduates on a rotational basis.
Educational Planning
3.13      The project would finance two man-years of technical assistance
to help set up an educational planning unit within the Ministry of Education,
and about one man-year of specialist services to assist in developing future
education and training projects.   The planning unit's first task would be
to prepare a school map and formulate, by July 31, 1980, a detailed plan
for expanding primary education in the rural areas. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it will establish the
educational planning unit not later than September 30, 1978, and will provide
it with an adequate budget and adequate local staff, including a qualified
planning officer. The project would also finance two man-years of fellowships
to train a Gambian educator in educational planning and statistics.



- 12 -
Project Administration
3.14      The credit would finance a project manager and a project architect,
for about 3-1/2 years each, to set up and administer the project unit (para.
4.02). The credit would also finance a short-term consultant to assist the
project unit in equipment procurement and to train a Gambian counterpart in
procurement procedures. In addition, the credit would finance office equip-
ment for the project unit and four vehicles for project administration and
site supervision. The Government would provide the technical and support
staff required for efficient project implementation. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government will provide duly qualified and com-
petent personnel, including a project coordinator, an accountant, two clerks
of works and a procuLrement officer.
C.   Project Costs and Financing
3.15      The cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$6.5 mil-
lion. The total project cost, including taxes of US$0.5 million, is estimated
at US$7.0 million with a foreign exchange component of US$5.5 million. The
distribution of project costs by major category of expenditure is given in
para. 3.18 and detailed in Annex 5. The breakdown of costs by project item
is summarized below.
Project Cost Summary
(Dalasis million)     (US$ million)         % of
Base Tax incl.
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   Cost  in Total
1.   Technical
Institute             0.9    2.5    3.4    0.4    1.1    1.5         27      0.2
2.   Health Manpower
Training             0.5    1.4    1.9    0.2    0.6    0.8         15      0.1
3.   MaLnagement
Development          0.2    1.2    1.4    0.1    0.5    0.6         11       -
4.   Secondary School
Upgrading            0.9    2.3    3.2    0.4    1.0    1.4         25      0.1
5.   Regional Education
Centers              0.2    0.9    1.1    0.1    0.4    0.5          9       -
6.   Eclucational Planning   -      0.5    0.5      -      0.2    0.2       4        -
7.   Project Unit             -     1.2    1.2      -      0.5    0.5       9        -
Base Cost Estimates   2.7   10.0   12.7    1.2    4.3    5.5    100           0.4
Physical
Contingencies (6%)  0.2    0.7    0.9    0.1    0.3    0.4          -        -
Expected Price
Increases (18%)      0.5    2.0    2.5    0.2    0.9    1.1         -       0.1
Expected Cost
of Project           3.4   12.7   16.1    1.5    5.5    7.0         -       0.5



- 13 -
3.16      Cost estimates for civil works are based on sketch designs prepared
under PPF financing prior to project appraisal. Base cost estimates are for
January 1978 and take account of the prices of recent construction contracts
in The Gambia. The estimated average cost of construction per square meter,
including site development, is US$190 for the secondary school additions, and
US$250 for the other project institutions. This compares favorably with
prevailing costs for contracts awarded for similar construction in Sierra
Leone and Liberia. The estimated unit cost per student place for the major
project institutions is US$1,625 for the secondary schools and US$4,675 for
the Technical Institute. These figures are about average for similar institu-
tions in the region. The estimated cost of technical assistance, based on
recruitment experiences of international organizations and bilateral agencies,
is US$60,000 per man-year of which US$32,000 is estimated to be for salaries.
Contingencies and Price Escalation
3.17      The project cost includes an allowance for physical contingencies
consisting of 8% for civil works and professional fees, and 10% for furniture
and equipment. The 8% allowance for civil works is lower than normal because
cost estimates are based on available schematic designs and all building sites
are known. The allowance for expected price increases is 18% of the total
base line cost plus physical contingencies. It is calculated on the following
basis:
Annual Percentage Increases in Prices
1978 and 1979            1980 and 1981
Civil works (including             9                       8
professional fees)
Furniture and equipment            7.5                     7
Technical assistance and           8                       8
fellowships
Detailed calculations for physical contingencies and price escalation are
given in Annex 6.
3.18      Estimated project costs, including taxes, by category of expenditure
are as shown below.



- 14 -
Cost (US$ Million)          % of     Tax incl.
Local   Foreign   Total    Base Cost  in Total
Civil Works                       1.0       1.8       2.8         51         0.3
(including professional fees)
Professional Services              -        0.3       0.3          5          -
Furniture                         0.1       0.2       0.3          5          -
Equipment                         0.1       0.6       0.7         14         0.1
Technical Assistance               -        1.1       1.1        20           -
Fellowships                        -        0.3      0.3          5            -
Base Cost                    1.2      4.3       5.5        100          0.4
Physical Contin-             0.1      0.3       0.4         -            -
gencies (6%)
Expected Price
Increases (18%)           0.2       0.9       1.1         -          0.1
Total Project Cost           1.5      5.5       7.0         -           0.5
The foreign exchange component amounts to US$5.5 million, representing 79%
of the total project cost of US$7.0 million. The foreign exchange has been
calculated as follows: civil works, 65%; furniture, 70%; equipment, 90%;
and professional services, technical assistance and fellowships, 100%. Local
currency expenditure amounts to US$1.5 million, or 21% of the total project
cost, including US$0.5 million in taxes.
Financing of the Project
3.19      The proposed IDA credit of US$5.5 million would finance the
foreign exchange costs, equivalent to 85% of the net-of-tax costs. The
balance of the project costs of US$1.5 million, including US$0.5 million
in taxes, would be financed by the Government. The distribution of Govern-
ment and IDA financing is given in Annex 8. Retroactive financing up to
a maximum of US$100,000 is recommended to cover the cost of establishing the
project unit and the cost of the services of consulting architects to prepare
working drawings and tender documents for all project institutions during the
period between credit negotiations and credit signatur4e (para. 4.01).
Project Recurrent Costs
3.20      When all project-assisted institutions become fully operational in
1982, the Government's recurrent expenditures would increase by about
US$130,000 (in constant prices) and would be reflected in recurrent budget



- 15 -
increases of US$100,000 for the Ministry of Education and of US$30,000 for the
Ministry of Health, representing 3% and 1.5%, respectively, of their overall
budgets. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that adequate budgetary provisions for the operation of the project-assisted
institutions will be made.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation
4.01      Preliminary architectural designs for all project institutions were
prepared under PPF financing prior to project appraisal. To speed up project
implementation, the Government took steps immediately following credit negotia-
tions to appoint architectural consultants to prepare working drawings and
tender documents for all construction.
Project Unit
4.02      Since the project would include components which will be adminis-
tered by several ministries, a project unit would be established within the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development (MEPID) to implement
and administer the project. The project unit would be headed by a Government-
appointed project coordinator. Day-to-day management and operation would
be the responsibility of a full-time project manager assisted by a project
architect, both financed under the project (para. 3.14), under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The Government would provide the following
qualified and experienced personnel: an accountant, two clerks of works, a
procurement officer, and the necessary additional support staff. The estab-
lishment of the project unit and the appointment of the project coordinator
would be conditions for credit effectiveness.
4.03      The project unit would be advised by a coordinating committee whose
membership would consist of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the
Departments of Health, Education, and Public Works; and the Establishments
Office. Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that
not later than July 31, 1978 it will establish the coordinating committee with
the abovementioned membership.
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
4.04      The project includes 19 man-years of technical assistance, as de-
tailed in paras. 3.02, 3.05, 3.07, 3.09, 3.13, 3.14 and Annex 9. The Govern-
ment expects to enlist the assistance of the British Council in recruiting
an educational planning specialist for the Ministry of Education, and of
WHO in recruiting a health planner and a health training specialist for
the Department of Health. Technical assistance personnel for the Technical
Institute and for the project unit would be recruited directly by the Govern-
ment. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
it will employ, through technical assistance financed under the project, only
persons whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employ-
ment are acceptable to IDA.



- 16 -
4.05      The project would provide 50 man-years of fellowships, as detailed
in paras. 3.02, 3.11, 3.13 and Annex 9. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that it will award fellowships to suitably quali-
fied persons for training programs satisfactory to IDA, and will require the
fellowship holders to serve at least two years in the positions for which they
were trained.
Sites
4.06      The sites for all project institutions have been selected and agreed
upon with IDA. These sites are already in the Government's possession.
Procurement
4.07      Civil works valued at US$3.1 million, and furniture, equipment and
vehicles valued at US$1.1 million would be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Domestic
contractors would be given a preference of 7-1/2% in the evaluation of bids
for civil works. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the CIF price of competing imports
or the total applicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower.
Furniture, equipment, vehicles and other items which cannot be grouped in
packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent each, or which are not suitable for
international competitive bidding, would be procured by inviting quotations
from reliable suppliers or in accordance with local competitive bidding pro-
cedures satisfactory to IDA. The value of such items would not exceed US$0.2
million.
Disbursements
4.08      The funds from the credit account would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  70% of the total civil works expenditures - US$2.1 million;
(b)  100% of total expenditures for professional services - US$0.3
million;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported, 70% of
expenditures for imported but locally procured, and 100% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture
equipment and vehicles - US$0.9 million;
(d) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance -
US$1.3 million; and
(e)  100% of total expenditures for fellowships - US$0.3 million.
US$0.6 million of the proposed credit would be unallocated. The credit also
includes US$40,000 to refund the PPF advance. Estimated schedules of imple-
mentation and disbursements are given in Annexes 10, 11 and 12.



- 17 -
Acccounts
4.09       The project unit would maintain records of project expenditures,
with annual audits by an independent firm of auditors. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that the project accounts, with
an audit report by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to IDA, will be
submitted to IDA not later than three months following the close of each
fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
4.10       The shortage of skilled and literate manpower is one of the principal
development constraints in The Gambia. The proposed project would support
the Government's education and training policies and help to overcome manpower
constraints by (a) training and upgrading skilled workers, technicians, managers
and administrators, and middle-level health personnel, (b) improving the
quality of secondary education, and (c) planning for the expansion of primary
education to rural areas. The project does not specifically address the needs
of women, but it would have a positive impact on their status by (a) helping
to plan for improved access to rural primary schools; (b) improving secondary
and post-secondary instruction in practical subjects, including home economics;
and (c) improving the delivery of health services, including maternal care,
especially in rural areas. The project does not present any unusual risks.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   Assurances
5.01       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that it will:
(a) develop an appropriate curriculum for auxiliary nurses
training and submit the curriculum to IDA for review
not later than January 31, 1980 (para. 3.05);
(b) carry out a study of the infrastructure, manpower, and
recurrent financing requirements of the proposed
expansion of the health delivery system and submit this
study to IDA for review not later than January 31, 1981
(para. 3.07);
(c) establish a Board of Governors for the Management Develop-
ment Institute and appoint the Board members not later
than January 31, 1979 (para. 3.08);
(d) develop detailed curricula for science and practical sub-
jects for secondary technical schools and submit these
curricula to IDA for review not later than September 30,
1980 (para. 3.10);



- 18 -
(e) conduct a detailed inventory of training needs for science
and practical subject teachers of the secondary technical
schools, andl submit proposals for the training and upgrading
of these teachers to IDA for review not later than December 31,
1978 (para. 3.11);
(f) establish, not later than September 30, 1978, an educational
planning unit within the Ministry of Education, Youth and
Sports, and provide the unit with an adequate budget and
adequate local staff, including a qualified planning
officer (para. 3.13);
(g) provide the following qualified and competent personnel
to staff the project unit: (i) a project coordinator,
(ii) an accountant, (iii) two clerks of works, and
(iv) a procurement officer (para. 4.02);
(h) make adequate budgetary provisions for the operation of all
project-assiLsted institutions (para. 3.20);
(i)  establish not later than July 31, 1978,a coordinating
committee, representing the government agencies involved
with the project, to advise the project unit (para. 4.03);
(j) employ, through technical assistance financed under the
project, only persons whose qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment are acceptable to
IDA (para. 4.04);
(k) award fellowships to suitably qualified persons for training
programs satisfactory to IDA, and require the fellowship
holders to serve at least two years in the positions for
which they were trained (para. 4.05); and
(1) submit to IDA the project accounts, with an audit report by
a firm of independent auditors acceptable to IDA, not later
than three months following the close of each fiscal year
(para. 4.09).
B.   Conditions
5.02       The following events are specified as conditions for credit effec-
tiveness: (i) that the Government formally establish the proposed Technical
Institute, to be managed by a Board of Governors, constituted not later than
January -11, 1979 under the President's Office, with terms of reference accept-
able to IDA (para. 3.04); and (ii) that the Government duly establish the
project implementation unit and appoint the project coordinator (para. 4.02).
5.03       On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$5.5 million.



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATLIR3                                                 ANNEX I
SEPT. t, 19177
I       t        I          I         I                I         I        S          I       I           I           I        I       I        I
I       t GNP/ I % GNP  1! TOTAL.!   OF' PUALIC i                         I          1PRI, 1Av.PRI.   a              A        I SEC   I       I
I       SCAPITAI DEVOTLDI4'UBLIC iEDUCATION    ILITER- IPFRI. :COMPLE-  WUT.- ISCN,TEACHaPRUGRESS-1 SEC. $STU- I                               I
$       s  Al'  3 TO rDU.i  EXP, a RECURRENT    lACY             IENROLL:TION        IDENTOiSALARY IN31ON RATE SENROLLiDENTSiIIIGNEHZ
a       iMARKErt  (PUBLUC.DEViJTEDaEXP ALLOCATED.   RATE  IRATIO IRATE FORSPER   :RELATION IFROM PRI.ZRAYIO IPER   sENRULLI
I P1)1'  3PRICES: EXP.    I  TO    I         TOo       ICR 0OF  I NET   IPRI.SCH,ITEACHe TO GNP/ ITO SEC,  I NET  ITLACH- RATIOI
YPIMILLS,I  (USS)S  ONLY)   I  EDU, SPRI. SEC, HI,IADULTS)e (X)   iCYCLE(I)aER    i CAPITA   a  13)                     a         ERaC  I  M         I 
aC I3) so  (2) a  (3)    a  ('4)             (5)       g (6)    3c (7)  a,  (a)3     a (9) I  ( I u           I       I  ( 12)   a ( 13) 1 (14)   a
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA          73    7.5E 4,410E        4.3     999      '470  250   2Q6    99        98        93        26       2 o         99       951       9       80 0
CANADA           72  22.9L 6,190E        77    19.4        30    38    1 9     90       89        98        24       2.0         99        82       IV      9.
GERMANY F.REIP.72  6Z.OL 6,260E           4.2    14.2     ,* 74** 26          99       9 1       99        3. S       ..        99        9 1     22      17.OUCY
JAPAN            71I 309,7E 4, O70E       4,3    2), 7     39    38    12      99       990       99C       25C      2.0         99C       9 4 )   20C    28.OUD
NETHERLANDS    72  I%,SL 5,250E           8.5    19 16    32    45    19       99       95        95        29        3.0        97        73      20)     1 1.00
NEW ZEALAND    73    3,OL 4,3LOE          5,2    *. .,     39    24    29      99       99        99        26        ...        99        67       09     24.400
NORWAY           72    4.OE 5,86OE        7.0    S',2      58    23    03      99       99        98        20        1.9        99        76       14     11.00
SWEDEN           73    S,2E 7,240E       6,9   116. 0      36    14    13      99       99        99        17        ..         9o        89       10     30.00
U,K,             72  S5,96 3,S90E        6.3    12,7       26    39    22      98       99        ...       26       2.0         ...       63      17      31.00
U.S.A.           72 21 1.9L 6,670E        6. 0    IS.4     .,    73** 27       99       99        99       e91       2,0          .,       93       1910   249.0 0
EURUPE
GREECE      ~~~~72    9.06 2,090E    2.2    11.1t    54Y  29Y  1bY    82A          95Y       ...       32Y'    ...           14)A     say      43Y'   11.00
IRELAND          72    3. 1  2,320E      S.3I   13990    431'  411'  14Y    98         97        996       35i      ...          950       75      19       7.0UA
PORTUGAL         72    9.0 1L ,630E0.910 ...I...                     ............                                                          O SOY    . ,.    7.60Y'
ROMANIA          75  20.3  t,300          4 .0    6.4      36    19    1 3     98       100        .        2        ..9                   49      22      10.0 0
SPAIN            7t  35 ,1C 2,490E        2.48   15.26    49Y'  22Y'  15Y    94A        91A       ..        ISA     ...          ..        d96     30       6.00A
AFRICA
ALGEiA           75   15.7      770       7,5     .,       416   326   1BG    30        76        626       42E       6.0G       49E       17      25       4.00
BENIN            73    3,0 3L 20E         5,3    32 " 0    47    23    10      1 1      3208      708       SO08    as.0us       438        78     398      l.AOCY
B0TSWANA         70    0.7      290       5.0    20.4      38    20    15      as       700       75        is        5.0        29        13X      18a     0,301'
BURUNDI          74    3.6       go       2.s    19.90    47R  414   12R    1.0.        200       30?.     38R      1-.0         34         20      18      1,0 
CAMeRUON         73    ?.1L   2500       5.9    20.0o    381'  291'  171'               74        ,.        91DY   ..             .         9      23CY    0,9OCY
C,A.R.           7 0    2.76    210E      4.0N  209 0      56   I19...64CY                        25         scy    ..                      SCY    27BY    0.071'
CHAD             75    4,06    I00E       3.     3901    785      2            157      29X51Y   30         6501'    1s.0         8         2001'  30           la01y
CONGO(S)         74    1,3      470       6,0    3.3       40    32    21       0       30         3        6,                   48a       330     ?        3.40
EGYPT            70a  36, 9     280       5. 3    .,       29    36    24      4 0      740       49        40,     ..            4        390     2 8     11I.0 0
ETHIOPIA         76  20.0       100       2.0    39a'    28    25    3 0        7       23I     ...         Si 0      ...        63         a      34
GABUN            73    0.5   1,960E       5,0    20.6      25    94     i 31          38e4081     25C       46C      5.0         186       20C     ZIC      1.AOCY
GAMBIA  1*        6    0.5      3 70      3.3    1 1. 5    4 6    2 5    6     1 0      2 7       90       3 3      ...          912       0 3     2 5
GHANA            70    9.66    430E       4.7    24,4DR  386   15Q  230    ...         %6OCY    62         IOCY    ...           04        1)0      16C9    O.74y1
IVORY COAST    72    s. qE    4601'      6.3    2'i .     278BY 33BY 13Y        9A     52        576        46      ...          ...       I I     25       1.208v
KENYA            73  12.96    200E       6. qN  27.0       63    1 1    3 1    40       73        ...       40       5.0        1'4        12      23       1.0351'
LESUTHO          75    1 .2     140E    1 2. OP  23.0      49    18    20      40      85        so        52        7.0N        0a       oI       26       1.00
LIBERIA          75     3.5     4 1 9     2.4    13.2      27    15    20      73       50        . ..      IS 1     2.          , ..      3 2     716      1.3A0U1'
MADAGASCAR       74    8.6      3go       3.2   ie7.1      SI   24    25       40       68X       10        63       35.0       '48         90     26       1.00
MALARVI          74    4. 9     130       3 1.    20.9........    2'1                   56X       60        Su0     ~ .u         '40        4X     20       0 .26C Y
MALI             75    5. 71     901'     4.2M4  33.0OF   45F'  171'  181'   10         220XF     ...       40'     9.5F         501'       60     2 1        ..
MAURITANIA       70      .3IL   290E      4.     23          I..           .1           150        .        e22        .                    3      24
MAURITIUS        72    0.9L       0       3.7 1E.70    70;10             4     so       86        99        3 1       ..                   3 1     30       14C
MORUCCO          74  16. 3      340      15  C    06,5     44    47      9     26?      540       2 1       17        ...        31        330    a21       2. 00
NIGERIA          71  73,OL   327F'    3.2N5        .       40A  24A  20A    ...         39X1CY    ...       34CY       ...        .         4      2Ocy    Q.37CY
RWANDA           73    4,06E     BOE      3 2C   29oD  ....... 23                       52        . . ..  St.                    ..         2       13      0 23CY
SENEGAL          71    9,9L   330E        4,0N  22,5DR  38A  426    S6    30            380       ...       '46       I.          .         1      25       17C
SIERRA LEONE  73    2,9C    390E          3,     23,4      31   36    30       1S?      34o       49        32       q,00        o6        13      21       0.5381'
SOMALIA          75    3.2      300       3,7    198       490  160  196    S0?         340       06        35      30.0         60         3       15      0.10
SUDAN       ~~~~~72   15.2L   230E   4.5     1.        43    29    20      15      38        75i       45        4.0         25       13       20       1 23Y
SWAZILAND        75    0,5      470       3.8     ...      38    33    19      50       73        71        38        3,8 a      s1        24      72       0.00
TANZANIA         70   14.46    160E       5.tN  17. 0      36    ...   0 2     63       440       .. .      49        . ..        7         2      21C      0.30
TUN1S1A          73    5.56    650E       6.3    23, 4     37    4 3    10     55S      72        5 1       4 1       6. 0       3 1       1 4     2 1      3. 00
UGANDA           70   11,2L   240E        5,2N  t7.6CR  400   220   250    256          480CT    ...        36        -.,        14A        4069   21       0,56Shay
UPPER VOLTA    72    SO8L        90E      4. 0    23.~9    65    10      6      5       I30       ...       45       38.0        20         2      23       0.0181'
ZAIRE            73  24. 16    I500       5.2CN 21 .3C    54C   17C  29C    I5          63        38        446       6,0U       43         8      24       0.9651'
ZAMBIA           74    4,8      520       5.3    14.21    34    38    36       43       88        80        47        9.0        20        13      22       1 .0 0
CENTRAL AMERICA AND TH6 CARIBBEAN
00816  RICA    ~~~71   1.96    BOC- 5.2    227'    5?    25    12          89      86CY'    65         29        3.0        58        212CY    25      12.11CY'
DOMINICAN REP.72    4.6C    650E          3.0    1339      42    24    22      51       80        37        S4        3,OD       63        03.5    20       7.00
EL SALVADOR    75-   3,8E    410E         3.6    23,8      61      S    22     600      6SC       ...       19cy      ...        39        130C    21CY    4.3581Y
GUATEMALA        73   5SOL    5800        3,      63,'0    55    23    14      47       64        26        35        3.0        69         0       25      4.091'
HAITI            72    45       00         .                     it060 1       208      22        25?       45        5.0        I'D        3       23      1.00?
HONDURAS         75    2,9      350       4.1G   34,46    62    15    22    610         76        30        is        3.0        80        IL       17      0.1)0
JAMAICA          72    2.06  1,190E       6,51'   39,7     331'  22Y    71'   86       1060XY     ...       52        ...        ...       32XY'  49       .4.791'
MEXICO           70  57,9L 0,0940         2.6     9.3      54    24    12      76       73        31        '46       3.0        63        19       23      6.32CY
NICARAGUA        74    2.06    6700       2.5    34.2      61    13    13      57       65        21        37        2.0        93        17       24     *7.00
TRINIDAD 9 T. 76    1.00 t,87SE           3,4N   30.'80    SOE   ZSE   13L    90C        8l       93        04        2!.00      49        44       25         .
SOUTM AMERICA
BOLIVI           76    5.8      351'F    5.0    07,1                 .         38       178       29D       24        1F         ,...       48      18D      ..
BRAZIL           75 307,0   1,018         5,0    I2;S4    42E  206    37E  646          866        .        27CY       .         ...       266      ISCY    6.00B
CHILE            72   10,4E    SIDE       461   10,6AY  36Y1'  4Y  361'    ...    113IXDY    ...            3781'     ..         ...       4800Y ..
COLUMaIA         TO  23.3IL   SOOE        4,     1049o,    351   18l   20,   73         67        20.       36         ,0        90.       17       14       4.0
ECUADOR          72    6,9E   OBOE        3.7    27,7C    451  420'lg    69             72        ,.        38        a, .                 1        14       4,978Y
GUYANA           78    0,s      500       5,85   14 To    47    3S   34        836      920       39        3I        6.0u       19        620      24       1.00D
PARAOUAY'        74    Z,S      510       3,8    13,10     S5    13    22      8ll      82        26        30        1,9        65        17       12       5.00
PERU             70   14,9E   7400        4.5    24130    50    2 2    15      7 2      80        38        3901'     3.0        7 0       3 0      23DY   12.0 0
VENEZUELA        73  11,6E 1,960E         4.6    19,9      3090  280  I5O    776        "I        ..        33        2,4    *,            33       ,,,    12,63CY



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CONID)                                        ANNEX I  PAGE 2
SEPT, If 19773
a       I ;NP/ I I GNP   IS TOTALtI   OF PUBLIC t                I        I          aPRI.  IAV.PRI,   S             I        S3fE   I
a       ICAPITAI DEVOTLDIFUBLIC a EDUCATION    ILITEIR- I PRI, ICOMPLE- aSTU- I3CH,TEACsaPR4OGRESS-8 SEC, aSTU- S                             I
I   I  Al  S TO) EDJ,u   CXP,  S RECURRENT    lACY           iENROLLTITUN        IDENTS1SALART  1911I1?  RATE IENROLLIDENTSIHIGHERI
I    MARKLI'  (PUBLICIDEVOTLDIEXP ALLOCATEDI   RATE IRATTO) IRATE FORuPER   IRELATION iFROM PRI.IRATIO P~ER   aENHOLLI
a FOP. tpRICED,  00P.    a  TO    a         TO:       ICt OF   I NET   IPRI.SCM,ITEACMI TU GNP/ iTO SEC.   I NIET   ITEACH- WATIOa
YRMiHLLS.I  (US$3:  OINLY)   I  EDO. IPRI,  SEC, HI,IADULTS)a  (5)   ICYCLE(t)aER    a CAPITA   I  it)                  S It)  aiER    I  t)   a
I       I        I          I         a                I         I        I          I      I            a           I        I       I       I
I ( I )!I    (2 ) I  ( 3)    I  (4)   a      (5)       I (6)    I (7)   I  (0)    I(9 I  (lb)    a ( III)                 81  I )     113 ) 1(10)   I
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    74   1~~~6,3  I10                     39P  23P  16P    1 0         260       24l      4)1        5, 0       lB         84      2 1     1.0 0
BANGLADESH       73  76.2E    aooE        (.2    20.2?      .....    .,    25          560       ...       AS        ...        ,...      230      28       ..
CHINACTAIWANi 73  t5.IE    S1OE           3.2    14,0      28    4 1    22     82      9BC       94        44u      1 4,0       84        631      26     20.XoC
INDIA            71 599,6L    SlOE       2,6VY  ..         .......    29               79        ,...      43A       ...        .,,       280      0000    '1.0040
INDUNESIA        74 136F        22oG      3,9F  II.'OF    69    21    10       698     790       43        34        2,0G       52        194      14       2.Oo
IRAN             73 133.I0  1,250E        3,3    I2~e      508   155   128    50       77        74A       32        9.08       804t      00       32       4.3210
IRAQ            72  t0.8E  1,1l0E        6.7    16,30R....... 26                       6lCY      ...      2?         .,.        ...       26010   26       6.28CY
JORDAN           73    2.60    43oE       7,0     8.8      52    Is   21       59      910       16        38        5,0        84        500      22       4,00
KOREA            75  35,3       530       2.     16,0R   65    33       2      920    1040X      98        '1?       3,5        77        550      38       7,8
LEBANON          72    SI      9oo         .     18.41    39    40    30       68      86        65        19        2,0        63        26U      25     23.00
MALAYSIA         74   31. 7     610       6. 4    2A,0     44    31    11I    6CC      96F       90        32        4,00       SIP       OAF      27F      3,00F
OMAN             72    0.7E 1,t6AE        I,7N   318       96     -   -        20      240       99        35        7,0         I.s      U.44      9       ,...
PAKISTAN         is  69,0       1SoE      21.6    16.2     45    25    is      21      470       s0        39        2.0         ...      170      18       6.00
PAPUA N.0,       i5    2,6      430       5,6    164)      38    16    24      30      57?       lIP       31       11,0        g0        1007    24        0,90?
PHILIPPINLS    74  41.4L    3lOE          2. 5    24.9     73    15    12      87     1044       ...       34       15,0        ...       46X      .,I.    21,0 0
SINGAPORE        72    2.2L 2,?4oE        3.)    36,2      44    31    15      75A    960        720       53        ,.         99A       570      24       8,250
SYRIA            75    7.4      66        3.6   6,9        39    25    26      53      89        70        35        2,0        92        45       21     12.00
THAILAND         73  40.7E    3 loE       4.ONF 20,87r   65       9    A15     8 1     070       931       52        3,4 U      911      a0I0      2 4     2 .00(
TURKEY           72  37,90    6000        . ..   13,304     .         ..     . ... lOSOCY    ...           34DY      ..,, .    ...        22XY    2703    5.31*0Y
YEMEN            73    6,RE    tReE      0,5      44"0     45P  ?OP   2OP    1 0       150      IlB        36        5,0U       7 5        20X    19       0.O5Bo
YEMEN P.D.R.  72    3,6L    ?20E         2.34   12, 6      79    1 2    -      I10     704       31        29       bu ,0       9 9       120      20       0.OSAT
NUMBER OF COUNTRIESI                      76    7')       71    7b    70     72       90        56        79          53       56        So       76       74
ANEI                                (0,5-   (3,8-   (25- (0-  (0-    (5-         (10-      (17-      (19-       (3,8-    (7-        (,4-   (9-        (.01-
32,0P 1  32,3)  963 52)  40)    981             184X)    99 1       S         25.01    491        75,0)  43)        23.0)
GUARTILLSIUPVEM  a                     5.2    22.2      55    31   22       75       87        75        46          8        80        29      26       6.0
MEDIAN:                    5.0o   IR,0      45    23    35      5o      71        so         18         S3       63        16       23       2,Cu
L.UWEA  I                  3,0      33,9    38    16    12      21      50        30        33           3       25          9      20        ,9
SYMBOLSI...  LIATUM UNAVAILABLE  ------2970 DR BEFOR;E ...              CURRE,; NT;  PRICES------- SOURCES---------
-  MAGNITUDE  NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8:3973                            NxGD0p
?  QUESTIONABLE                       1:1972                        PSINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                     COLUMNSII  AND 2 .PLOR  EANK ATLAS
A   INCLUOES PART.TIME sTrUDENTS 1:3973                             OSCENTRAL GOVT, ONLY                                            OR 1*R0 MISSIONS
**COMBINED WITH PRIMARY              EX1974                       RsMINISTRY OF EDUCATION (ROE) ONLY                     3 TO 14 IARD MISSIONS
U5 lNDER REVIEW                      F'1975,                       SxMUE AND STATE GOor, ONLY                                      ANE/OR UNESCO
G:1976                       T:EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                        S7ATISYICAt.
UzPUBLIC ONLY                                                   YEARBOULK
VSINCLUUING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XSINCLUDING ONERAQED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
.. .   . . .I- -    - -  - -  - - -  -- - - -   - -  - - -  -  - - -  -  - - -- - - -    - - - -   - -  - - -  - - - -   - -  - - - -   - - -  - - -    - - - -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE US3EFUL IN WNE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF REL,ATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVeLUFMCNr Bo~TNEEN VARIOUS COUNTIIIES. MOWEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS3-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOuLD BE APPROACHED #ITH~
GREAF CAUTION, DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE NAVE SEEN COLLECTED LARGELY 80 THE 8014K MISSIGNS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCESX THE
REMAINDER ARL STAFF LSTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE SEEN MADE TO STANDTARDIZE OEFINIIIUNS AND WOITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERIMELCSS303UC DATA ARE STILL IRPLRFECT IN SEVERAL RESPEcTs AND THE BANK IS *ORKING TO IMPRVVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY 1)N THE OCCASION OP LTS OPERATIONAL WORK, IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SmOULD BE VORNE IN
MIND.
(IIEDUCATION' AS GEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL,
C2)"PRIMARY EDUCATILilN REFERS TU EDUCAT10N AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL. EDUCATION A! THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (1,0, GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(33'LITERALV RATES"(CoL.6) ARC OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THET ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DUUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF .LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY,
143'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(CO?LS,3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITOL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION AT
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIESI-
(S)'ENROLLMENT RATIOS-(COLS 7, 12 AND 34) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
ON THL APP'ROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL, THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF EAROR IN THE DEVELOMING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I,E, AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS), ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN TNE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL, OVERAGED STUDENTS AHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS,



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE GAMBIA: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
1.        The national education system derives from the traditional
British background and is administered by the Ministry of Education,
Youth and Sports. It has two departments: the Department of Education,
directed by a chief education officer, and the Department of Youth and
Sports. Both departments report to the Minister through the Permanent
Secretary of Education, Youth and Sports. The administrative structure
of the Department of Education is small and is centralized in the capital
city, Banjul. A scheme of decentralization of certain administrative func-
tions to regions has made a modest start with the appointment of four
regional education officers.
Primary Education
2.        The six-year primary course admits pupils from the age of eight
and had a 1976-77 enrollment of 25,525 pupils (Table 1). The average class
size was 33 and girls numbered 32% of the roll. Dropout is low but repeaters
were 23% of the roll in 1976/77. A large number of these are in grade 6,
where they attempt (often more than once) the common entrance examination
for secondary education. There are 99 primary schools, of which 77 are
directly operated by the Department of Education, five are run by area
councils under Local Agreement, and 17 others are provided by religious
organizations, mainly Roman Catholic.  There is a striking drop in enroll-
ments away from the Banjul-Kombo area, as indicated in the following table:
Enrollment Ratio - 1976/77 1/
Total %             Female %
Banjul                                 105                 100
Kombo                                   73                  62
Brikama                                 56                  27
Mansakonko                              19                    7
Kerewan                                 24                   10
Kuntaner/Georgetown                     19                  11
Base                                    10                   6
The Gambia                              35                  23
1/   Enrollment ratio      enrollment       x 100%.
7-12 age group



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4 pages
The National Development Plan proposes to increase primary school provision,
especially in the rural areas. This is unlikely to become effective for
some time because neither buildings nor teachers will be easily obtained
there; in addition, there is a tradition of sending children to Koranic
schools instead of to the formal public school.
3.        The quality of school buildings in most rural areas is poor.
"Temporary" buildings, constructed by the community through self-help,
oft-en serve for many years. The school building program of the Depart-
ment of Education, executed by the Public Works Department, is largely in-
su,Eficient and several years behind schedule. Few schools have furniture
and the provision of school books and supplies is inadequate. A sensible
start has been made regarding the supply of school furniture: two small
production units--one at the Vocational Training Center, Banjul, and the
other at the Agricultural and Technical Center, Lamin--are making simple
furniture under contract to the Department of Education.
4.         In 1976/77 there were 829 primary teachers, of whom 54% were
qualified. The proportion of unqualified teachers on the staff generally
increases in the more rural schools. The staffing of primary schools and
the distribution of teachers are not very efficient, and considerable savings
in personnel and money could be achieved merely by administrative action. A
curriculum development unit within the Ministry of Education, directed by a
Unesco expert, has started to develop a primary curriculum adapted to local
needs and conditions.
Secondary Education
5.         Primary school leavers take a selective examination for admission
to secondary high school for a five-year course (grades 7-11) or to junior
secondary schools for a four-year course (grades 7-10). Some 40% of the
primary grade 6 transfer to secondary education. The total secondary enroll-
ment in 1976/77 was 6,824 students, with 373 staff, of whom 67% were qualified
(Table 1).  There are seven senior secondary schools:  six in the urban Banjul-
Kombo area and one, with boarding provision, in Georgetown. Only one school
has a VIth form (grades 12 and 13), with a 1976/77 enrollment of 73 students,
from which pupils proceed to university education. The senior secondary
sc:hools are relatively well equipped and are accommodated in suitable build-
irngs.
6.         Junior secondary schools are more recent in origin and were pro-
vided to meet the demand for more secondary school places. The course is
of four years' duration and has a leaving examination at the end. School
premises vary iin standards and only 11 of the 16 schools having buildings
of their own. The others are in rented premises or share accommodations
wiith their parent primary schools. Specialist rooms are rare; only seven
schools have such rooms and some of them lack furniture or equipment. Thus
the schools provide little more than a pale version of the academic curriculum
of the intentionally academic senior secondary schools.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4 pages
Tertiary Education
7.        Tertiary education, defined as education following the end of
five years of secondary education, is provided at five institutions. Two
of the institutions classified as tertiary, however, recruit their students
after only four years of secondary schooling (Chart I). The Teacher Training
College operated by the Ministry of Education, and the Schools of Nursing
and Public Health maintained by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare,
recruit their students at the end of grade 11 (GCE "O"-level examinations).
The Vocational Training Center and the Agricultural and Technical Center
recruit after grade 10.
Teacher Training
8.        Teacher training is available only for primary and some lower-
secondary teachers. Senior secondary teachers are either expatriates (38%)
or have been trained abroad. The Teacher Training College in Yundum provides
three-year courses for primary teachers; some programs for lower-secondary
teachers are now being introduced. Practically no facilities exist for
training teachers of specialist subjects, although trainee-teachers with
wood and metal craft skills have been given one year of pedagogical training.
Students of both sexes are admitted; the 1976/77 enrollment is 129 (36% female).
All are boarded at the colleges.
Vocational Training
9.        Originally founded as a technical school, the Vocational Training
Center (VTC) was up-graded in 1966 with assistance from the British govern-
ment and now offers courses in (a) basic mechanical engineering, (b) basic
auto engineering, (c) carpentry and joinery, (d) masonry and bricklaying,
(e) welding, and (f) secretarial duties. Admission to the VTC requires the
school leaving certificate of a junior secondary school. Most courses are
of one or two years duration and include an element of liberal studies.
Students generally take the appropriate external examinations of the London
City and Guilds Institute, and obtain intermediate or final Craft certificates.
The enrollment capacity of the VTC is approximately 240 students. The instruc-
tional staff are qualified and sufficiently experienced. The Center is accom-
modated in dilapidated buildings and the available equipment is not adequate
to conduct quality training programs.
Education Finance
10.       The Ministry of Education is responsible for general education and
provides, through its annual budget, the bulk of the funds needed to run the
country's primary, junior secondary and senior secondary schools. A relatively
small contribution comes from the private sector which partly funds all but one
of the senior secondary schools. There are also a number of "local agreement"
primary and junior secondary schools which are funded by Area Councils (local
authorities), the Government and private sources. The Ministry finances the



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4 pages
costs of the Teacher Training College and the Vocational Training Center
and provides grants to students in these two institutions. The Ministry
also provides grants to sixth form students and scholarships to students
abroad.
11.       Education has been gradually increasing its share to total recur-
rent expenditure, as shown in the following table, but is still quite modest
by West African standards, even allowing for the absence of a Gambian university:
RLecurrent Expenditure on General Education
and Vocational Training
(D-000)
1L971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77
Actual    Actual    Actual    Revised   Approved  Estimates
Estimates Estimates
Education          2,585      2,587      2,985      3,379       3,480     6,792
Total Recurrent  22,754    20,970    24,936    27,122         27,550    44,311
Budget
Educaition as %    11.4        12.3      12.0      12.5         12.6      15.3
of TCotal
The 1976/77 budget estimates for education and training increased from D3.5
million in 1975/76 to D6.8 million in 1976/77, mainly due to a general revi-
sion of salaries in the Civil Service.
Table 2 shows the distribution of educational expenditure by
function for the years 1975/76 and 1976/77. The budget allocated for salaries
rose from 72.5% in 1975/76 to 78% in 1976/77, while the provision for books,
equipment and supplies decreased from 3.3% in 1975/76 to 2% in 1976/77.
Table 3 shows the breakdown of costs per pupil for each level of
education. Costs have gone up sharply, particularly in primary and secondary
technical schools. In 1974/75 the direct per pupil costs were estimated to
be D56 in primary schools and DIIO for secondary technical schools; the
1976/77 budgeted costs were D132.00 and D200.00, respectively.



THE GAMBIA: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, YOUTH AND SPORTS
ENROLLMENT AND TEACHERS
Statistics for 1976/1977
Age                   Teaching   % of Qualified    Pupil/Teacher         Population of  Enrollment as %
Level          Grades   Group   Enrollments    Staff             Teachers           Ratio           Age Group  1/   of Age Group
Primary          1-6      7-12
Government                        21,504         705            53.2               30.5
Other                               4,021         124            61.3              32.4
Total                           25,525         829             54.4              30.8            78,660             32.5
Secondary       7-11    13-17
Government                          3,977        213             67.3              18.7
Other                               2,847        161             80.1              17.7
Total                             6,824        373            67.3               18.3            47,190             14.5
Upper Secondary  12-13  18-19            73    (in 373 above)  (in 67.3 above)    21.6
Teacher Training 12-14  18-20           129          14            100                9.2
Nursing and      12-14  18-20            77           8            100               12.5
Public Health
Ag. + Technical 11-13  17-19             54           4             75                8.0
Vocational       11-12  17-18           202          18            100               13.7
Training
Agricultural 2/   12       18            38
University  2   14-        20           200
TOTAL                                77                                                         27,100               2.9  x
(D X
Source:  The Gambia:  Education Statistics, 1975/76                     1/ Estimates based on 1973 census -figures                    N 
Date:  June 1976                                                         2/ Training abroad



Annex 2
Table 2
THE GA.MBIA:  FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, YOUTH AND SPORTS
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
(D '000)
1975/1976
Approved        1976/1977
Estimates       Estimates
TOTAL                                              3,480            6,792
General Administration                                     798           1.307
(a) Personal Emoluments - Education                      214            702
Personal Emoluments - Youth sports
and libraries                                      40               76
(b)  Other charges                                       544             829
Primary Schools (Government and local agreement) 1,271                    3,096
(a) Personal emoluments                               1,o69            2,669
(b) Books and supplies                                    66              84
(c) Other Charges                                         24              23
(d) Grants-in-aid                                        112             320
Junior Secondary Schools (Govt. and local                  422              806
(a) Personal Emoluments  agreement)                      336             682
(b) Books and supylies                                    23              23
(e) Other charges                                         06              11
(d) Grants-in-aid                                         57              90
Senior  Secondary Schools                                _ 52               919
(a) Personal Emoluments (Armitage only)                  120             184
(b) Bcoks and supplies                                    03                3
(c) Food and hcusehold                                    55              90
(d) Other charges                                         13              17
(e) Grants-in-aid                                        361             625
VocatiorLal Training                                       139              234
a) Personal Emoluments                                   59              81
(b) Equipment and sundries                                15              20
(c ) Trainees allowances                                  41             100
(d) Other charges                                         03                6
(e) Grants-in-aid                                         21              27
Yundum College                                             292              419
(a) Personal Emoluments                                  1               178
(b) Books and equipment                                   07               07
(c) Students' allowances                                 100             150
(d) Food and household                                    35               60
(e) Other charges                                         16               24
Adult Education                                               6              11
Source:  The Gambia Government Estimates



Anne: 2
Table 3
THE GAMBIA: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, YOUTH AND SPORTS
COST PER STUDENT
(Da'.asis)
Books +    Other      Admin.
Personnel    Supplies   ChargesA/ Costs        Total
Primary Schools            128            4          1         42         175
Secondary Technical        190           6           3         65         264
Schools
Secondary High Schools    500            9         288        259       1,056
Vocational Training         250         61         325        206         842
Center
Teacher Training         1,066          42       1,399        814       3,321
College
1/ Includes student allowances and boarding costs



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE GAMBIA: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
THE HEALTH SYSTEM
Present Structure
1.        The health delivery network in The Gambia consists of a tiered
system of multi-purpose health institutions with two general hospitals at
the top, 10 health centers at the intermediate level, and 16 dispensaries
and 40 sub-dispensaries at the peripheral level.
2.        The general hospital in Banjul has a capacity of 260 beds and
mainly serves the urban Banjul-Kombo area. A rurally based hospital with
80 beds is located in Bansang, 220 miles from Banjul, and serves the Upper
River region. Bilat:eral aid is expected to provide a 50-bed hospital in
Kaur on the north bank of the Gambia River, about 120 miles from Banjul.
3.        Health cernters are located in the rural areas, have a limited
capacity of 2 to 15 beds, and provide general curative care through a
residenlt dresser/dispenser (a male nurse with one year of training in
pharmacy). Health centers also provide maternal and child health (MCH)
services through a nursing sister or nurse midwife (a graduate nurse with
one year training in midwifery), and control of environmental health and
communiLcable disease through a health inspector. Sub-dispensaries (health
posts) are without resident personnel and are visited periodically by
staff from nearby hiealth centers.
4.        In the past, development of health services was oriented toward
Banjul and the surrounding urban areas, and emphasis was placed on general
hospital service. This resulted in an imbalance of health care delivery
between urban and rural areas, which is reflected in the distribution of
health personnel within the government health services which is shown in
the following table:
Posting of Staff in
Government Health Services (1974/75)
Banjul            Bansang           Rural Health
Hospital           Hospital            Services
Doctors                          14                  2                  _
Graduate Nurses                  45                  5                  15
Dresser/Dispensers               68                  9                  26
Health Inspectors                21                  1                  16



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5 pages
5.        While health services in the Banjul area are of reasonable standard,
the quality and scope of services in nearly all existing rural health centers
and dispensaries are deficient. Most of the shortcomings can be traced to
staffing problems, lack of management and supervision, and shortage of sup-
plies. The situation is generally aggravated by the limited planning, organi-
zational and management capacity of the Ministry of Health and by the lack
of a comprehensive basic health services program. The National Development
Plan provides a first step toward developing a rational, long-range plan for
the expansion of national health services.
6.        The recurrent budget of the Department of Health of 1976/77 is
D4.53 million (US$1.97 million), or about 10% of total government expendi-
tures, one of the highest percentages in Africa. Only 10% of the budget
is allocated to preventive services and 66% is spent for staff salaries
and related benefits.
Health Conditions
7.        The health of the Gambian population is typical for West Africa.
The birth rate, death rate and infant mortality are among the highest in
the world and life expectancy is low. In The Gambia, crude birth
and death rates are 43 and 24 per 1,000, respectively--about average for
Sahelian countries. Infant mortality in the rural areas is 217 per 1,000,
which exceeds the average for West Africa and is about 12 times that for
developed countries. The urban areas, with better medical facilities have
an infant mortality rate of about 53 per 1,000, which is much lower than
the average. Average life expectancy at birth is estimated at 33 years.
The most common diseases are communicable (respiratory, gastroenteritis and
other endemic infections), and are generally associated with malnutrition,
unsanitary living conditions and unsafe water supply. Mothers and children
are particularly affected, and maternal and child mortality is very high,
especially in the rural areas.
National Health Plan
8.        The National Health Plan aims to consolidate and improve the cur-
rent health services, especially in the rural areas, and to promote a balanced
and integrated delivery system at all levels. At the peripheral level, the
plan envisages establishing five additional health centers, with about 15 beds
each, and upgrading four sub-dispensaries to dispensary level. At the inter-
mediate level, negotiations are underway with bilateral donors to construct
a 50-bed hospital at Kaur in the center of the country. At the end of the
Plan period, therefore, the infrastructure would have changed considerably,
as the following table shows:



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5 pages
Health Infrastructure
Actual          Projected
1975              1980
Hospitals                                     2                3
Hospital beds                               350               420
Health centers                               11                16
Health center b(eds                          92               180
Dispensaries                                 15                19
Sub-Dispensaries                            40                 53
MCH Clinics                                  31                64
Training Facilities
9.        Since 1965, graduate nurses and nurse midwives have been trained
at The Gambia School of Nursing in Banjul. Some training is also done abroad.
The duration of the training program is three years. Official entrance require-
ments are GCE with five 0 levels but entrance standards have been lowered in
recent years. Female graduate nurses can qualify as nurse/midwife by following
an additional 18-month course in midwifery. Male graduate nurses can become
dresser-dispensers by following an additional one-year course in pharmacy.
The curricula are traditional and need to be re-examined, upgraded and geared
to the problems of the community. The present output of the School of Nursing
does not meet demancd because of substantial wastage rates both during and
after training. To reduce the high wastage rate, the Government suggests that
more male students be admitted for training and therefore that adequate accom-
modations for male students should be provided on the site of the present
School of Nursing.
10.       Health inspectors are trained at the School of Public Health in
Banjul. The capacilty of this school is sufficient and the output is expected
to meet future demands.  Admission requirements are five GCE 0 levels and
programs are not well adapted to the needs of the rural communities. Entrance
requirements should be reduced and course content should be revised.
11.       The present corps of auxiliary nurses has been trained on the job.
They are divided into hospital and community auxiliaries, although the actual
functions they perform do not justify this strict separtion. Only recently,
the first formal training institution for community auxiliary nurses has been
opened at Mansa Konko. It has a capacity of 12 students, and its training
program is approximately 18 months.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5 pages
Staff Needs
12.       In addition to the staff needed for the new hospital and the
additional health centers, the Department of Health intends to upgrade the
staffing position of the existing facilities. For example, the 1980 staffing
target for each health center is one medical assistant, two graduate nurses,
two auxiliary nurses, one health inspector, one dresser dispenser and one
auxiliary area council nurse. For dispensaries, the 1980 staffing target
is one dresser dispenser, a nurse-midwife, two auxiliary nurses and sanitary
inspector. These changes would result in a considerable requirement for
graduate and auxiliary nurses, as shown in the following table:
Estimated Requirements for
Health Personnel
1980
1975             1980
Actual           Target
Doctors                                          19               25
Dentists                                          2                4
Nurse/Midwives and                               75              122
Nursing Sisters
Medical Assistants and                          104              136
Dresser/Dispensers
Health Inspectors                                39               57
Auxiliaries                                      90              162
Laboratory Assistants and                        23               30
other middle level staff
13.       The project middle level manpower requirements for the government
health services are summarized as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5 pages
Projected Manpower Requirements, 1980
1975      1980         1980         Estimated       Total
Actual    Required   Shortfall       Attrition       Shortfall
Medical Assistants           --         16          16             3              19
Graduate Nurses,            179        248          69            35             104
Midwives and
D)resser/Dispensers
Health Inspectors            39         57          18            19              37
Auxiliary Nurses             90        163          72            18              90
Recommendations
14.       To meet the manpower requirements in the health sector, the following
steps should be taken:
(i) 20 graduate nurses, midwives and dresser/dispensers, and
18 auxiliary nurses should be trained each year up to 1980;
(ii) a new curriculum for auxiliary nursing staff, including
preventive as well as curative work, should be developed;
(iii) existing curricula for graduate nurses and public health
inspectors should be revised and directed toward community
health work;
(iv) field training in public health should be included for all
para-medical. staff; and
(v) organizational and planning capacity of the MOH should be
strengthened.



Annex 3
THE GAMBIA:  FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT             Tablel
DEVELOPMENT OF HEALTH SERVICES
1964 - 1974
1964              1974
1. Expenditures
Recurrent health budget                D 1,220,660       D 2,207,000
Per capita                                   D 3.33            D 4.65
2. Staff
Physicians                                     20                 38
Dentists and Pharmacists                         3                 5
Nurses                                          39                65
Dresser-dispensers                              84              104
Health Inspectors                               27                39
Other middle-level health staff                  3                9
(radiographers, physiotherapists,
laboratory techniciens, hospital
secretaries)
Untrained Auxiliary Staff                                         80 j/
3. Hospital services
No. of government general hosnitals             2                 2
No. of non-government general hospitals         1                 2
Total No. of general hospital beds            320               411
No. of inhabitants per hospital bed         1,000             1,200
Total Admissions                            8,368 (c)         5,193 (d)
Total new outpatient cases                 84,260 (c)       160,927 (d)
Total outpatient attendances               98,312 (c)       207,397 (d)
4. Rural Health Services
No. of rural health entres                      8                10
No. of dispensaries                            16                15
No. of sub-dispensaries                        31                38
Total outpatient new cases                289,082           460,013
Total outpatient attendances              415,795 (c)       522,687 (d)
No. of MCH Clinics                             22 (c)            33 (d)
Antenatal new cases                        12,880 (c)        19,137 (d)
Antenatal total attendances                43,516 (c)        bo,o74 (a)
Deliveries through institutions
and by Midwives                           3,301 (c)         6,239 (d)
Compounds inspected                        43,460 (c)         4,038 (d)
Slaughtered animals inspected              14,145 (c)        19,577 (d)
(a) 1963 census
(b) 1973 census
(c) Average of 1965 and 1966 figures
(d) Average of 1972 and 1973 figures
I/ Mission estimate



ANNEX 4
Table 1
THE GAMBIA: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
SALARIED EMPLOYMFNT BY INDUSTRY
SEPTEMBER AND DECEMER 1974
Distri-                              Distri-
September 1974          bution            December 1974    bution
P'ublic   Private      by         Public   Private            by
Industry       Sector   Sector  Total Industry Sector   Sector  Total  Industry
Agriculture, Forestry  739         227   966   5.3%    1327         176      1503    6.7%
Fishing
Manufacturing          2271        323  2594  14.3%    2566(1)   343         2909   12.9%
(food)               (1802)       (65)(1867)           (199o)(1)   (66)  (2n56)
(beverages)             (-)      (113) (113)              (-)      (133)   (133)
Utilities                693          -   693   3.8%      827          -      827    3.7%
Construction           3452        730  4182  23.1%o   11348         400    4748   21.0%
W`olesale Trade          246       699   945   5.2%       374        733    1107    4.9%
Groundnut Trade          -         -       -              688       1826    2514   11.1%
Retail Trade             -         450   450   2.5%        -         466      466    2.1%
Hotels + Fest.aurants    -         421   421   2.3%        _        1007    1007    4.5%
Transport, Storage    2545         255  2S00  15.5%    a914          425    2339   10.40/
Ccmmunications
Financial Services      174        133   307   1.7%       204        124      328    1.5%
Public Administration 2111          -   2111  11.7%    2101           -      2101    9.3%
Education Services       802t6     184  1070   5.9%       891        185    1076    4.8%
Medical, Dental, Vete- 930           64   994   5.5%      930         68      998    4.3%
rinary Services
Movie Distribution       -          93    93    .5%        -          90       90      14%
Mctcr Vehicle Repair    -(2)        85    85    .5%        -(2)       93       93      .4%
Othe?r Community and    120        283   403   2.2%       156        295      451    2.0%
Personal Services  _____
TOTAL            14,167      3947 18114  100%    16326    6231         22557   100%
I;istribution by       78.2%       21.8% 100%            72.4%    27.6%    100%
Sector (%)
(1)  The Survey reports 3966 people employed but a check by MEPID
revealed apparent double counting of Gambia Fisheries employees
to the extent of some 1400.
(2)  Public Works Department motor vehicle repair is classified
urder transport.
Soarce: The Gambia - Quarterly Surveys of Employment and Earnings
Date:  'November 1975



AITEY k
Table 2
THE GAMBIA: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Sumnary Occupational Distribution of the
Recordea Labor Force - 1974/75
Occupationsl/                Public       Private                  %Distribution
Sector       Sector       Total       by Occupation
Pr~ofessional and technical   1,660         48o         2,14o            9.3
Managers, administrators        120          80           200             .9
Clerical                      1,520         380         1,900            8.2
Sales                            20         520           540            2.3
Serv:ices                     1,050         830         1,880            8.1
Agricultural                    540          80           620            2.7
Production                    3,4410        720         4,130           17.9
Unskilled                     7,970       3,720        11,69o            50.6
TOTAL        16,290       6,810        23,100           100.0
1/ IEnternational Standard Classification of Occupations



ANNEX4
Table 3
THE GAMBIA: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Modern Sector - Demand for Manpower
1975 - 1980
Projected
Employment      Rmployment                                    Total
Major Occupational Group        1975            1980 1/        Increase    Attrition 2/ Demand
Professionel and              2,200            2,600             400            350        750
Technical Workers
Managerial and                   200              300            100             50        150
Administrative Workers
Clerical and Related          1,900            2,400             500            300        800
Workers
Sales Workers                    600              700            100            100        200
Service Workers               1,900            2,800             900            300      1,200
Agricultural and                 600              800            200            100        300
Related Workers
Production and                4,100             5,200         1,100             600      1,700
Related Workers
Unskilled Workers            11,700           13,700          2,000          1,750       3,750
TOTAL                   23,200           28,500          5,300          3,550       8,850
1/ Estimated productivity increase 1.8% p.a.
2/ Estimated at 15% for the five year period.
Source: MEPID and mission estimates.



THE GAMBIA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
COST SUMMARY
(US$)
Gross Area   Construction and   Professional                             Specialist
Project Component                   Sq. m.     Site Development      Services     Furniture   Equipment    Services   Fellowships    Total
I. Technical Institute                  3,400        850,000           100,000          65,000      250,000      180,000    80,000        1,525,000
II. Health Manpower Training             1,860        470,000            50,000          50,000       70,000      160,000        -           800,000
III. Management Development               1,200        300,000            30,000          25,000       40,000      210,000        -           605,000
IV.  Secondary School Upgrading          4,300        820,000            90,000          70,000      200,000         -       200,000       1,380,000
V. Regional Education Centers           1,850        360,000            35,000          30,000       90,000         -           -           515,000
VI.  Educational Planning                  -              -                 -                 -          -        170,000    20,000          190,000
VII.  Project Unit                          -              -                 -             20,000      50,000      445,000        -           515,000
Base Line Cost (including Taxes)      -        2,800,000           305,000         260,000      700,000    1,165,000   300,000        5,530,000
Physical Contingencies                -           224,000           23,000          26,000       70,000         -           -           343,000
Expected Price Increases              -          605,000            62,000          63,000      170,000      140,000    36,000        1,076,000
Total Contingencies                   -           829,000           85,000          89,000      240,000      140,000    36,000        1,419,000
Total Cost including Taxes and
Contingencies                   -        3,629,000           390,000         349,000      940,000    1,305,000   336,000        6,949,000
Foreign Exchange  (Percent)           -             657,             100%              70%        90%          100%      100%           79%
(Amount)           -        2,359,000           390,000         224,000     846,000    1,305,000   336,000         5,480,000
Share of Foreign Exchange Amount      -            43%                 7%              4%         16%           24%        6%          100%



THE GAMBIA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Contingency Allowances
(US$ 000)
Total
Base          Physical                  Expected          Contin-       Total Cost
Line           Contin-      Total        Price            gencies       including
Category                      Costs         ge.cies                   Increases          (24)         Contin-
%   Amount      %  Amount                 %  Amount       %  Amount        gencies
(1)            (2)         (3)           (4)             (5)           (1+5)
Construction   Local       35%      980      8%    78      1,058      20%   212      28%   290         1,270
Foreign   65%   1,820       8%   146       1,966      20%   393      28%   539         2,359
Total    100%   2,800             224     3,024             605             829        3,629
Professional   Foreign  100%        305      8%    23        328      20%    62      28%    85           390
Services
Furniture       Local      30%       78      10%    8         86      22%    19      32%    27            105
Foreign   70%      182      10%   18         200      22%    44      32%    62           244
Total    100%      260             26        286             63              89          349
Equipment       Local      10%       70      10%    7         77      22%    17      32%    24             94
Foreign   90%      630      10%   63         693      22%   153      32%   216           846
Total    100%      700             70        770            170             240          940
Specialist      Foreign  100%   1,165         -     -      1,165      12%   140      12%   140         1,305
Services
Fellowships    Foreign  100%        300       -     -        300      12%    36       12%    36          336
Total Project: Local              1,128       -    93      1,221             248            341         1,469
Foreign          4,4G2            250     4,652             828           1,078        5,480
Total            5,530            343      5,873          1.076           1,419        6,949



ANNEX 7
THE GAMBIA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
ASSUMED PRICE INCREASES 1978-81
(in percent)
Average nc2rease
over Implementa-
Category             1978         1979         1980        1981       tion Period
1. Civil Works             9            9            8            8               20
2. Furniture              7.5          7.5           7            7               22
3. Equipment              7.5          7.5           7            7               22
4. Technical               8            8            8            8               12
Assistance
5. Fellowships             8            8            8            8               12
March 1978
Source: World Bank Mission



ANNEX 8
THE GAMBIA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
IDA FINANCING BY MAJOR CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(US$ 000)
Government            IDA        % IDA
Project Category               Cost           Finance          Finance      Finance
1.  Civil Works                   3,100             1,000            2,100         70%
2.  Professional services            300               -               300        100%
related to civil works
3*  Furniture, equipment and       1,100              200              900         80%
vehicles
4.  Specialist Services            1,300               -             1,300         100%
5.  Fellowships                     300                               300         100%
6.  Refunding of Project              40               -                40        100%
Preparation Facility
7.  Unallocated                      860             300              560          -
TOTAL    7,000            1,500            5,500
March 1978
Source: World Bank Mission



ANNEX 9
THE GAMBIA:  FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND FELLOWSHIPS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
No, of       Est. Cost
Post  Description'               Months          (us$)                General Purpose
1.  Technical Education Specialist 36           180,000      Establishing the Technical Institute
2.  Health Sector Planner           24          120,000      Planning and implementation of
(Min. Health)                                            proposed expansion of health
delivery syotem
3*  Health Training Specialist       6           30000      Development of training programs
(Min. Health)                                            for auxiliary nurses
4. Educational Planner              24          120,000      School mapping and planning for
(Min. Educ.)                                             expansion of primary education
5. Qonsultant Services              12           60,000      Development of educationitraining
(Min. Educ.)                     -           -o.jeets suitable for *xternal
financing
6.  General Management              36          180,000      Establishing the management
Specialist (MDI)                                         development institute
7. Management Training               3           30,000      Development of training programs for
Specialist (MDI)                                         middle-level managers and
admiznistrators
8. Project Mbnager (PIU)            42          210,000      Management and administration
of the Project Implementation Unit
9.  Project Architect (PIU)         42          210,000      Coordination of architectural design
work and supervision of project
construction
10. Procurement Specialist (PIU)    3             25,000      Preparation of equipment lists and
procurement document at ion
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         228        1.165.000
No. of
B. FELLGWSHIPS                    Yea5 s
1.  Educational Planning             2           20,000      Post-graduate training for a
and Statistics (Min. Educ.)                              qualified teacher/administrator
2.  Instructor Training              8           80,000     Technical upgrading and/or teacher
(Tech. Inst.)                                training for instructors of the
Technical Institute
3.  Teacher Training (Sec. Tech..  40           200.000     Upgrading and retraining of sc-ience
se5ools)                                and practical subject teachers of
TOTAL  FEL SEcondr   echnical 5bools
TOTAL FELLOWSHIPS



THE GAMBIA - FIRST EDUCATTON PROJECT
IMPLEMENTAT1ON SCHFDULE
CONSTRllCTION AND PROCUREMENT OP FURNITURE AND EQUIPENTR
ACTION   IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITY J||||LI]I           1976IIIIID                     J          FMAM          J         JII        ]       I      IIIIM          AMJJASO IlI III 197SON|) 7|} J A 7  S9 7  19D0  198  19 2    MJ     J19O8DJF 
P~ &ARh= repaurat eionsadRve                                               pria   iso                                 aA-U                  eodr   colEtnin
1.    Appin  Arcittr.  Conulan
1*    P,.p.,e Slemtc Desf# i gnsM 
1.3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                            feciees(xetd                                                    School ofq Horsing and P.....Cy
1.4ShtDesignsReConDa mi'in                                                                                                                   Mv
Ley   Ptend: .ry Designc hni P R                                                               1n3tot
21   P &R.= Pepartion of npdd Reves       _ _ _ _a=ApaslMsinA-7    eodr   coletni
2/  H.T.C.iddi  ealth-Tratnong A ea tes                                 b3 = NeoitosRgoa   dcto    etr
3.OA~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Seodr                                 Effetivnes  (Epe-d)teol  fNusiianoHns.
3.OD   Technical InatiLLke ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~       ~        Tchnca  Ins ite



THE GAMBIA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
IMYPLEMENTATION SCHEDUL.E
SPECIALIST SERVICES AND FELLOWSHIPS
ly =-U                 197           1          199       ,               90                       181      5 3 1            19        l       S      198
FISOYR    A SIOIN D1978     A   i   J AIS 0 N DIJIFIMIAIMIJ JIA S IoNIDIJIFIMIAI J JIAJISOIN IDI JllF  4A MIJ JIAIIOIN D 32 IFMlA MIJ J|AIS ON rDJ IFIMIA M
1.  Technical Education Specialist (Techn. Inst.) 1__________________                                    e      f{fii           S        ||||{||||||                   E ~Lm 
2.  Health Sector Planner (Min. Health)               ) ___________________                              ll llllll_z 
5.  Consultant Services (Min . Educ .)                                                                                                                             mm               ___+f4fTIlEi    
8.  Project Manager (PTU)                                  ______l____________llll lllllllllll lllllllllll itX|| llllX                                                                                           1
9.  Project Architect (PIU)                                _ _                                                                                                                                                rr
10. Procurement Specialist (PIU)                            ___________________:E 111STFT   1FIIIIT     T FS
B. FELLOWSHIPS                               ____________________|t|0 |k4|111|r                                                              ;        lXT        r||1r:      
1.  Educational Planning (Min. Educ.)                      ___________________llll I]}l}jI$00I lllllllllll lllll lllll ]]}l  
2.  Instructor Training (Techn. Inst.)                                                               llllIIlII IIIr          
3.  Teacher Training (Sec. Techn. Schools)lllllllllllllll ll                        



wANNEX 11
THE GAMBIA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(uS$ Ooo)
Fiscal Year                        Accumulated       Undisbursed
Fiscal Yearl/     Quarter       Disbursements      Disbursements    Balance
1978               1
2
3
4               25                   25             5,475
1979               1                55                   80            5,420
2              100                  180             5,320
3               80                  260             5,240
4               90                  350             5,150
1980               1               265                  615            4,885
2              615                1,230             4,270
3              460                1,690             3,810
4              490                2,180             3,320
1981               1               465                2,645            2,855
2              535                3,180             2,320
3              415                3,595            1,905
4              395                3,990             1,510
1982               1               500                4,490            1,010
2              370                4,860               640
3              19o                5,050               450
4              155                5,205               295
1983               1                80                5,285              215
2               80                5,365               135
3               70                5,435                65
4               65                5,500                 0
/ Fiscal Year:  July 1 - June 30



THE GANBIA: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS BY MAJOR CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(us$ 000)
Fiscal Year- XQ8            1979              1980              1981              1982               1983
__ ~   ~    ~   ~   ~  1 ._979_  __ _ _ __ _ _ ___                                                         _____- -  _ _ ---    - -- -    - ---- --_ E.Toa
and Quarter   3   4~  1              4 12    3 h I~~    4 1l2    3;               2             1   2   3  4
Disbursements                                                                                                    Total
Disbursements
Allocation
by Category               I                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Including
by Category                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Contingencies
1. Civil Works
(including        2,400 o o              30  80  60  40 170 400 370'320 240 260 14o;170 210 100 100  50                                2,74o
professional                                      0      1            3
2. Furniture and        900             25  25  20        _       140       80 100 15-0 100 160 14o, -            -  .       .   _         1,090
3. Specialist        1,300                       -   201 50  80  65  65  65 100 100;100 100 105 1051 75  90  65   65  50 50                1,350
4. Fellowships          300         _ -   _      _   -   -   -   15  15! 25i 25  25    ' 25  25  25  251 15; 15  15   15  15 15              320
_ i-                                              I                       ; ~     --- -- - 1      l4_ _ _.......................- t   . ..... '-    ''-4  '-
5.  Unallocated         600                    - Di burseme ts incl4deddn  ate orifs 1   4
_   _   _    --T--                 ----.------         t        -.
80,                   ~~~~~5351415 39    0    '5                             5,500
TOTAl              5,500         - | 25  55;100!       90265 6l5 46o490 465    -    395 51                       80   80  70 65 June 3
1/Fiscal Year.  July 1 - June 30                                                                                                                              j\



GAMBIA
The Education System
F   PRIMAR"'          1       iSECONI3AHy                       __                       uST SECONDARY
UNIVERS!TIES
Secondary High Schools                      V' FORMS              (ABROAD'
GECNERCAL                                                           ..TEACHER TRAINING
GEERUATIO ........... ...... 
EDUCATION
PRIMARY SCHOOLS                  Secondary Technical Schooiss
SCHOOL OrF PUBLIC HEALTH
TECHNICAL                                                                                    -SCHOOL OF NURSING
EDUCATION'                                                                                                 H
AGR. S TECHNICAL CENTER
*  SeIection Eannto
Selection Examination                            ~~~~VOCATiONAL TRAINING
*  Qualifving Examination
GRADE 1                      4       5      6          7       8      9      10         11           112    13         14      15      16
AG  -   I     II                     J       I         I                                                               21      22
AGE  7      8       9     10     11      12         13      14     15      16        17           18      19         20     21      22
World Bank-15456 %



GAMBIA
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1976-77
GRADE
15
14                                                                              48  10
13   POST SECONDARY                                                         172      46
12                                                                              3   53
11                                                                             262    113
10                                                                             1031  378
BOYS                                                                          GIRLS
LOWER
SECONDARY                                                                1022  382
8                                                                            1196  556
7                                                                            1192  619
6                                                     .29-18  1247
5                                 |*2439  t1125l
4   PIAY2716  1196
PRIMARY_
3   ~                                                                   2833  1475                                                                            | 
2                                                                            3135  1605                           |
1                                                                            4032  804
I        l         l         l         l        l         I         1                   I         l         l         I         l         l          
4,000    3,500     3,000    2,500      2,000     1,500    1,000      500        0        500      1,000     1,500     2,000     2,500    3,000      3,500     4,000
World Bank - 17896






THE GAMBV\AAZ 
FIRST ED2UCATION PROJ ECT
Iz   If~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ell J" K j,j ~R                  %AK
JAE, ~     ~         ~         ,                  -  -
PAKIJPIDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2~z<
SUKVTA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          I                                                                                          /x  /
~~~~~E LA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    -~Y
N,[ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     _
WA A                                                                                                                                                      Z.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  ~ dSo 
p                                                                                                                                                                                           NA55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ah,oNe
FAF-I KOJc,"vP"'                     <eC  4,k,
5    .5       E5   IS,  A    25
I                             DKe,ReIe



