CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 792 GM
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 26, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 792 GM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1978, between THE REPUBLIC OF THE
GAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower or The Gambia) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Assoc.iation to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit, established
and operating within the Ministry responsible for Economic Plan-
ning and Industrial Development of the Borrower.
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated August 11, 1976 and August 27,
1976 between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) On the Effective Date, the Association shall, on belalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance shall be cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Association shall establish.   The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1988, and ending


﻿-3-
February 15, 2028, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its PIU with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose,
Section 3.02. (a) The experts to be employed by the Borrower
pursuant to Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall have qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the staff to be trained
on fellowships included in the Project be suitably qualified,
undertake training programs satisfactory to the Association and
serve, upon completion of their respective training, for a minimum
of two years in the position for which such staff was trained.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schediles for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reason*bly request.
(I,  The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records, procedures,
and accounts ade,uate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Associa-
tion, at regular intervals, shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts pert,.ining to
the execution of the Project for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than three months after the end of each such year,
certified copies of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning such accounts, and the audit thereof,
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction of the facilities included in the Project and shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall operate or cause to be
operated the educational institutions and facilities included in
the Project in accordance with appropriate educational and admin-
istrative policies and practices, all as required in order to
further the educational objectives of the Borrower, and shall
provide, on a continuing basis adequate budgetary support to such
institutions.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times employ or cause to be
employed full-time qualified administrators and teachers in ade-
quate numbers to staff the educational institutions included in
the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall adequately maintain or
cause to be maintained the buildings, equipment and furniture of
the educational institutions included in the Project and make or
cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with appropriate administrative and technical
standards.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following additional events are specified
for the purpose of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿-6-
(a) the PIU has been duly established and the project
coordinator referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been
appointed; and
(b) the Technical Institute referred to in Part A of Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement has been duly established under a charter
that is consistent with the provisions of such Part A.
Section 5.02. The date August 28, 1978,is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Trade of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister of Finance and Trade
The Quadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of The Gambia
West Africa
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                             GV-204 (PRESOF)
The Republic of The Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s/ Lamin K. Jabang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  2,100,000       70%
(2) Professional ser-              300,000       100%
vices related
to civil works
(3) Furniture, equip-              900,000       100% of foreign
ment and vehicles                           expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory and 70%
of local expen-
ditures for im-
ported items
purchased locally
(4) Specialists'                 1,300,000       100%
services
(5) Fellowships                    300,000       100%
(6) Refunding of                    40,000       100%
the Project
Preparation
Advance
(7) Unallocated                    560,000
TOTAL     5,500,000


﻿-9-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures )rior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000 may be made in respect of architectural services included
in Category (4) on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after March 15, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 10 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project shall be carried out through the PIU. In the
carrying out of its functions, the PIU shall be advised by a
coordinating committee, to be established not later than July 31,
1978, or such other date as may be agreed to between the Borrower
and the Association, consisting of representatives of the Borrow-
er's Ministry of Finance and Departments of Health, Education
and Public Works, and the Establishment Office.
The PIU shall be adequately staffed at all times with duly
qualified and competent personnel, including a project coordi-
nator, an accountant, two clerks of works and a procurement
officer.
The PIU shall be provided with all necessary equipment and
vehicles for Project administration and site supervision.
Technical assistance comprising the services of the following
specialists for a total of 87 man-months shall be provided to the
PIU for the carrying out of the Project:
(i) a project manager to help manage and administer the
PIU;
(ii) a project architect to coordinate architectural
design work and to supervise the construction under
the Project; and
(iii) a procurement specialist to help prepare equipment
lists and bid documents and to train local staff in
procurement matters.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.   Technical Institute and the Management thereof
The construction, equipping, staffing and furnishing
of a Technical Institute with a capacity of 260 student
places in the Kaniting industrial area. The Institutes will
offer pre-employment, upgrading, and apprentice programs in
mechanical, electrical, automotive and construction trades
to train skilled workers and lower-level technicians. To


﻿- 12 -
assist in the establishment and operation of the Technical
Institute, technical assistance comprising the following
shall be provided: (i) the services of a technical educa-
tion specialist for a total of 36 months; and (ii) award
of fellowships for a total of 96 months for training and
upgrading of qualified technicians or journeymen to become
technical instructors. In addition, the instructional staff
of the existing Vocational Training Center will be trans-
ferred to the said Institute.
The said Institute shall be managed by a Board of
Governors, to be constituted not later than January 31, 1979,
under the office of the President of The Gambia, comprising
representatives drawn from public and private sectors. The
said Board shall function in accordance with terms of refer-
ence satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
B.   Training Centers for Nurses, other Health Training and Study
of the Health Delivery System
The construction, equipping, staffing and furnishing of
(i)  a Training Center for auxiliary nurses with a capacity
of 20 places to be attached to the rural hospital in Bansang,
and of two 6-bed hostels, at Kuntaur and Kerewan rural health
centers, respectively, to accomodate nurses on field train-
ing; and (ii) additional class rooms, a laboratory and a
hostel for about 24 male student nurses at the School of
Nursing in Banjul.
The Ministry of Health of the Borrower shall prepare
suitable training programs and a curriculum combining train-
ing for community and hospital services to be used in the
said Training Center. The said programs and curriculum shall
be submitted to the Association for its review not later than
January 31, 1980.
For purposes of this part of the Project, technical
assistance comprising the following components will be
provided to the Ministry of Health of the Borrower: (i) the
services of a health training specialist for 6 months to
prepare the said program and curriculum; (ii) the services of
a health planning specialist for 24 months (A) to prepare
a study of the infrastructure, manpower and recurrent finan-
cial requirements for the health delivery system proposed in
the Borrower's National Development Plan (1975-1980), such


﻿- 13 -
study to be furnished to the Association not later than
January 31, 1981; and thereafter, (B) to assist in the
initial implementation of the said system.
C.   Management Development Institute (MDI)
The establishment, construction, equipping, staffing and
furnishing of a Management Development Institute to train
about 200 students annually as managers and administrators in
the public and para-public sectors. The Institute shall
be managed by a Board of Governors, to be constituted not
later than January 31, 1979, under the office of the Presi-
dent of The Gambia comprising personnel drawn from the
public and private sectors.
Technical assistance comprising the services of the
following experts shall be provided to assist in the initial
operation of the MDI:
(i) a general management specialist for a total of 36
months; and
(ii) a specialist for program designing for a total
period of 3 months.
In addition, the Borrower shall make adequate arrange-
ments for provision of the following assistance to help
establish MDI:
(i) a specialist in accounting and financial management
for a total of 24 months;
(ii) guest lecturers for a total of 6 man-months; and
(iii) fellowships for the training of MDI staff for a
total of 48 man-months.
D.   Secondary School Upgrading
The construction, equipping and furnishing of about 30
specialist rooms for wood and metal work, home economics,
science, and arts and crafts at each of the secondary tech-
nical schools in Pakalinding, Brikama, Latrikunda and Crab
Island and at the secondary high school in Georgetown, for
an aggregate capacity of 750 student places.


﻿- 14 -
The development and carrying out of a training program
for secondary school science and technical teachers for which
fellowships will be provided for a total of about 40 man-
years. Such training program shall be submitted to the
Association for its review and comments by December 31, 1978
or such later date as the Borrower and the Association may
agree.
The curriculum development center of the Department of
Education will, in collaboration with the Gambia College,
prepare the detailed curricula for science and practical
subjects; such curricula shall be furnished to the Associa-
tion for its review not later than September 30, 1980.
The Borrower shall make adequate arrangements for the provi-
sion of technical assistance to assist said center in the
preparation of the curricula.
E.   Regional Education Centers
The construction, equipping and furnishing of each of
the regional education centers at Kerewan, Kanifing and
Brikama and of a production unit to manufacture and repair
school furniture at Kanifing. The regional education officers
attached to such centers shall be responsible, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to the
Borrower's Department of Education for the supervision of
primary and secondary schools in their respective districts.
The said production unit shall be attached to the Kanifing
Regional Education Center, and shall operate under a com-
petent manager/instructor.
F.   Educational Planning
The Borrower shall establish an educational planning
unit within the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of
the Borrower not later than September 30, 1978. Said unit
shall be provided with an adequate budget, adequate local
staff (including a qualified planning officer) and all other
appropriate facilities and resources required for the purpose
of its activities.   The Borrower shall cause said unit to
complete not later than July 31, 1980, a detailed plan for
expanding primary education in rural areas.
Technical assistance comprising the following components
will be provided to the said Ministry: (i) the services of


﻿- 15 -
an educational planning specialist for 24 months to assist
with school mapping and planning for expansion of primary
education; (ii) specialist services for a total of about 12
man-months to assist in the development of future education
and training projects; and (iii) the award of fellowships
for a total of 24 man-months to train local staff in educa-
tional planning and statistics.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to
the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity
to bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the
Association the sketch designs for the civil works, master lists
of furniture and equipment (including vehicles) and proposed
groupings for tender, indicating the specifications and the esti-
mated unit and total prices of the items to be procured, and shall
make such modifications in said master lists as the Association
shall reasonably request. Said items shall be indexed, coded and
numbered for identification with respect to the Project institu-
tions and locations for which they are to be used. To the extent
practicable, identical or similar items of furniture and equipment
(including vehicles) shall be grouped in lots estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more so as to permit bulk procurement
in accordance with appropriate technical and procurement prac-
tices.


﻿- 17 -
4.   Bidders for all the civil works included in the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidel.ines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for (i) equipment (including vehicles) and furni-
ture which cannot be reasonably grouped together in lots estimated
to cost at least $50,000 equivalent, and (ii) standardized equip-
ment not susceptible of international competitive bidding, may be
procured by inviting quotations from reliable suppliers or by
advertising locally and in accordance with competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided, however,
that the aggregate amount of such procurement shall not exceed
$200,000 equivalent. The Borrower shall promptly inform the
Association about the procedure it intends to apply whenever
procurements are to be made in accordance with the preceding
paragraph (ii).
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in The Gambia and to be procured in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 of this
Schedule may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 18 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in The
Gambia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in The Gambia equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in The Gambia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evalu-
ated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category 1 of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement


﻿- 19 -
and to be procured in accordance with the procedures described in
Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide,
as part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qual-
ification is invited, inform the Assuciation in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility
for domestic preference under Part D.1 above and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for
such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Asso-
ciation for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 20 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to (i) all contracts for civil works; and (ii)
all contracts for furniture and equipment (including vehicles)
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suffi-
cient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such


﻿- 21 -
contract, together with, wherever applicable, the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award, copies of quotations
received and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


