Document of
The World Bank   FILE CO
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3193-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR AN
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
January 25, 1982
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
differential between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate
and currency equivalents in 1980 and as of December 31, 1981 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1981              January 15, 1982
US$1                        S/. 426.60                    S/. 517.04
S/. 1                       US$0.0023                     US$0.0019
SV. 1,000                   US$2.34                       US$1.93
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CORPAC    -    Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion Comercial
(Peru Airports and Civil Aviation Authority)
DGC       -    Direccion General de Caminos
(Highways Directorate of the MTC)
DGTT      -    Direccion General de Transporte Terrestre
(Land Transport Directorate of MTC)
ERP       -    Economic Recovery Program
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
MTC       -    Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones
(Ministry of Transport and Communications)
ORETT     -    Comision Reguladora de Tarifas de Transporte
(Regulatory Commission for Transport Tariffs of MTC)
OSP       -    Oficina Sectorial de Planificacion
(Sectoral Planning Office of MTC)
PPAR      -    Project Performance Audit Report
SEM       -    Servicio de Equipo Mecanico
(Mechanical Equipment Service of the MTC)
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
vpd       -    vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONT'
REPUBLIC OF PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Peru
Amount:               US$93.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
11.6 percent interest per annum.
Project
Description:        The project's objective is to provide support for key
elements of the Government 's expanded highway investment
program and to strengthen the Ministry of Transport and
Communications' Highways Directorate (DGC).  The project
includes (i) rehabilitation of 195 km of severely deteri-
orated paved roads; (ii) improvement of another 400 km of
unpaved roads, to a gravel or paved two lane standard;
and (iii) assistance for strengthening DGC's road
maintenance operations through provision of equipment,
spare parts, workshop improvements, technical assistance
and training staff.  In order to improve the quality of
management in DGC, the project also provides for
contracting experienced engineers and managers to fill
senior positions.  Finally, the project also includes
detailed engineering for future road rehabilitation and
improvement and technical assistance for preparing a
regional development project and for executing three
transport sector related studies.
Special Risks:        The project's main risks are (i) that DGC will not be
able to implement the project effectively; the loan
would provide funds for hiring consultants for project
supervision and in-line experts for DGC in order to
minimize this risk and would include provision for
consultation between the Bank and MTC before major new
projects are undertaken so that the risk that DGC's
scarce managerial resources are diverted to other lower
priority projects is minimized; and (ii) that costs will
exceed estimates. The fact that detailed engineering for
project civil works has been essentially completed
reduces this risk to an acceptable level.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
-----US$ millions------
A.  Road Rehabilitation Program                     17.9     18.6      36.5
(i) Civil works for 195 km of roads            15.0      16.1      31.1
(ii) Engineering and Supervision                 2.9       2.5       5.4
B.  Road Improvements                              39.1      36.2      75.3
(i) Civil works for 400 km of roads            34.1      31.8      65.9
(ii) Engineering and Supervision                 5.0       4.4       9.4
C.  Road Maintenance Program                         2.4      8.8      11.2
(i) Equipment, spare parts and
workshop improvements                      1.7      8.5      10.2
(ii) Contracted services                         0.7       0.3       1.0
D.  Strengthening Highways Administration            1.4       1.6      3.0
E.  Transport Sector Technical Assistance            0.7       1.1      1.8
Base Price                              61.5      66.3    127.8
F.  Physical Contingencies                           9.3       9.4     18.7
G.  Price Contingencies                             19.2     20.3      39.5
Total                                   90.0      96.0    186.0
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ millions-----
Bank                                            -       93.0      93.0
Co-financing                                   1.5       3.0       4.5
Government                                    88.5         -      88.5
Total                                   90.0      96.0    186.0



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                         1983   1984   1985   1986
(US$ millions by Bank FY)
Annual              18.3   32.4   31.2   11.1
Cumulative          18.3   50.7   81.9   93.0
Rate of Return:      About 39 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Staff Appraisal Report No. 3619b-PE,
dated January 21, 1982.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMFNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$93 million to help finance
an eighth highway project. The proposed loan would be repayable over 17
years, including 4 years of grace, on a fixed amortization schedule with
interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions. Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
1/ This part is an updated version of Part I from the Small Scale Enterprise
Project President's Report of November 18, 1981 (Report No. P-3154-PE.)



- 2 -
5.        Crude oil is the dominant source of energy in Peru, supplying
approximately 80 percent of the country's commercial energy requirements.
Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with scope for
expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is expected to
remain the major energy source through the rest of this century. After
having been dependent on imported crude oil for part of its energy
requirements since the early 1960s, Peru increased domestic oil production
almost threefold between 1976 and 1979 to about 190,000 barrels per day. As
a result, Peru exports oil in substantial quantities (about 60,000 barrels
per day). Despite this encouraging production trend, domestic consumption is
expected to rebound after several years of economic stagnation. To enable
Peru to remain a net petroleum exporter, therefore, the Government has
embarked on a strategy of accelerated secondary recovery and exploration
efforts to increase production and of rational pricing policies to contain
demand growth. This strategy is already bearing fruit with petroleum output
expected to increase in 1982 to an average level of 207,000 barrels per day.
Prices for domestically consumed petroleum products have been increased at
regular intervals.   In addition, new legislation was enacted offering
special tax incentives to investors, both domestic and foreign (see para.
20). Response to the tax incentives has been positive.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. In the
early 1960s, however, birth rates started a gradual fall, mainly caused by
the urbanization process and by improved education. But with declining death
rates, population has continued to grow at about 2.7 percent p.a. and is
currently estimated at about 17 million. It is expected that population
growth will fall only slightly to about 2.4 percent p.a. over the next 20
years, unless an effective population control policy is adopted. The
Government is conscious of the need to slow down Peru's demographic growth
rate and is now developing a primary health care program which would contain
a family planning component. The urban population is increasing at 4.3
percent p.a., and about a quarter of all Peruvians live in the Lima area.
Given the structure of Peru's population, the labor force is expected to grow
in excess of 3 percent per year during the next 20 years.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth, not only on the
individual level but also between regions. To achieve these goals, the first
military Government expanded the role of the State in the economy, changed
the pattern of asset ownership, reduced foreign ownership of national
resources, oriented industry and agriculture toward production of essential
goods for the domestic market, stimulated regional deconcentration, and
reformed the educational system. Through nationalization and creation of new
enterprises, the State took direct control of key economic sectors.
Moreover, the Government imposed complex legislation to control the
operations of the private sector.
8.        The pattern of asset ownership in the economy changed drastically.
Through nationalization, the share of foreign-owned assets fell sharply. A
sweeping land reform redistributed 49 percent of the country's best farmland



- 3 -
to workers' cooperatives comprising some 30 percent of all rural families.
Through other laws, industrial workers were given shares in their employers'
firms and, in the mining sector, a share in profits. While these actions
benefited large numbers of Peruvians, they barely reached the poorest groups,
which continue to live in abject poverty.  It is estimated, for example, that
almost three quarters of rural families--mostly "minifundistas" (those
farming less than 2 ha) and landless seasonal workers--were not reached by
these programs. Moreover, subsidies were given to products that were more
important in the consumption basket of high- and middle-income groups than in
that of the poorest groups. Artificially low prices for some products
actually hurt the poor who produced these items, and affected production
negatively. Although many of the policies and structural changes carried out
after 1968 were meant to achieve rapid growth and more equality, their cost
proved to be excessive and their implementation inefficient.
9.        Between 1968 and 1977, Peru's Governments followed expansionary
fiscal and credit policies. A rapid increase in expenditures was not matched
by a parallel increase in revenues. Public sector savings dropped steadily
in relation to GDP from 4.4 percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.6 percent in
1977. As a result, aggregate demand considerably exceeded aggregate supply
resulting in strong inflationary pressures and widening external gaps.
10.       Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977.  Interest rates, however, remained substantially negative in real
terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating capital flight.
Moreover, the exchange rate remained practically constant between 1968 and
1975, thus contributing to the overall disequilibrium. National savings fell
dramatically from 16 percent of GNP in 1970 to 8 percent in 1977, when they
financed only about one-half of investment.
11.       The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of
payments. The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in
1974-77, equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this deficit,
Peru accumulated a massive external debt. At year-end 1977, Peru's total
private and public external debt--including short-term indebtedness--stood at
almost US$8.3 billion, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP and almost four times
annual exports of goods and non-factor services. Three-fourths of the US$6.4
billion long-term public sector debt (including undisbursed) was scheduled to
be repaid over the 1978-82 period.
12.       Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion during which GDP
grew by more than 6 percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. In this two-year period, GDP per
capita dropped by over 6 percent and unemployment and underemployment rose to
almost 60 percent of the labor force, up from less than 50 percent during the
early 1970s. According to Government estimates, the purchasing power of the
average salary had fallen 40 percent by 1978 compared to 1970 and that of the
average wage by over 16 percent.
Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
13.       From 1975 on, several unsuccessful attempts were made to cope with
Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic crisis had
reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation approaching



- 4 -
100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was finding it
increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports and the
banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative level
of US$800 million. Financial instability had reached the point where
practically all economic activities were adversely affected. The public
sector was fast approaching the point where it would no longer be able to
fully service its external debt. Peru was no longer creditworthy.
14.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
stabilization measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the
balance of payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a
stand-by arrangement with the IMF for SDR 184 million. In July 1979, this
stand-by was replaced by a new one for SDR 285 million as continued support
of the stabilization program. Peru's debt outstanding to the IMF as of
December 31, 1981 amounted to SDR 578.9 million.
15.       Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club
and with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce
the debt-service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about
US$1 billion to the 1982-1986 period. In view of the strong balance of
payments performance in 1979 and 1980 (para. 18), the Government decided to
forego parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better
conditions for new loans from commercial sources.
16.       To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP) which, in addition to
the above-mentioned stabilization actions, included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by
broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource
allocation in the private and public sectors.  Import liberalization was the
most important element of the ERP and is expected to have salutary long-term
effects on resource allocation and on prices. These policy changes--together
with a declining domestic market because of the recession--resulted in a
major reorientation of industrial development, with a large increase in the
value of manufactured exports from US$200 million in 1977 to the US$750-800
million range in 1980-81 (equivalent to about 8 percent of output). The
Government also drew up a public sector investment program that aimed at
redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic priority and with
positive effects on production and employment. In support of the ERP, the
Bank approved a US$115 million program loan in May 1979. The carrying out of
the ERP was generally satisfactory. Performance in some critical
areas--e.g., export promotion and import liberalization--actually exceeded
expectations. In other areas--e.g., improvements in the quality of public
investment and in raising interest rates--progress was more modest.
17.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979. Central
Government revenues increased by 23 percent in real terms, while current
outlays declined by 6 percent. Payments for wages and salaries alone fell by
some 7 percent in real terms, partly as a result of a reduction in excessive
civil service employment. Public sector current account savings rose from
-0.5 percent of GDP in 1978 to about 3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the
overall deficit was reduced from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in



- 5 -
1979. In spite of the good fiscal performance, however, inflationary
pressures remained strong, with consumer price increases of 67 percent in
1979 and of 59 percent in 1980.
18.       The implementation of stabilization measures and of the ERP had a
positive impact on the balance of payments. Moreover, an increase in
petroleum exports, substantial price increases for silver, copper, petroleum,
and other commodities, as well as the relatively low level of imports because
of the recession contributed to high overall surpluses of the balance of
payments in 1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the net reserve position had
improved to a level estimated at about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to about 4
months of imports. Peru also made greater use of assistance from official
bilateral and international sources thus improving the structure of its
external debt.  The short-term debt of less than one year was sharply reduced
from US$1.8 billion at year-end 1978 to US$0.8 billion at year-end 1980.
Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in 1980, growth dropped
slightly to 3.1 percent owing, in part, to a drought which affected the
agricultural sector.
Recent Developments and Outlook
19.       In July 1979, the Military Government promulgated a new
constitution written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections
were held in May 1980, and following his electoral victory, President
Fernando Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. The new Government faced
a challenging economic and social situation with a number of acute problems
which had been somewhat disguised by the apparently solid financial
situation. These included: high levels of under- and un-employment,
particularly in urban areas; higher underlying inflation than had been
reported because of price controls and deferred price adjustments for public
goods and services; a public sector deficit that had been reduced by freezing
expenditures for economic and social services (including education, health
and housing), combined with a rigid expenditure structure which did not leave
much margin for any significant reallocation of funds ta these and other high
priority areas; a balance of payments situation which showed a substantial
surplus, but which was partly due to high commodity prices and to the fact
that import levels were depressed; and, finally, deteriorated income
distribution over the past several years resulting in increased social
unrest.
20.       The Government named a capable economic team which is committed to
economic efficiency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of
some of the State-owned enterprises), promotion of the private sector
(including foreign investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable
sharing of the benefits of development through job creation and specifically
targetted social programs. Its reliance on, and promotion of, private
initiative, in particular, distinguish the present Government's philosophy
and economic program from that of its immediate predecessors. During its
first year in office, the Government took vigorous measures to address many
pressing problems. It was successful in accelerating import liberalization
by eliminating non-tariff barriers and lowering tariffs. At the same time,
export incentives were streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make
the system more responsive to exports of products with high manufactured



- 6 -
content. The Government also enacted new legislation for the agricultural,
mining and petroleum sectors offering greater financial incentives to
investors. Finally, it made significant institutional changes in the
financial sector, revised the interest rate structure through substantial
upward adjustments, and recently introduced a new banking law in parliament
which would allow further rationalization and liberalization of the financial
system.
21.       In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made headway
in correcting major price distortions. Food subsidies were greatly reduced
and most controlled agricultural prices were adjusted to international
levels. The marketing of agricultural products was liberalized, and public
utility and petroleum prices were adjusted at regular intervals. Moreover,
the Government endeavored to rationalize public investment and its financing
-- an effort that was supported by a Bank sponsored Consultative Group
meeting in May 1981.
22.       The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen
public sector institutions. The important public enterprise sector, for
example, was granted greater autonomy by transforming these enterprises into
State-owned limited liability corporations operating under private law. This
measure gives these companies, inter alia, greater freedom in fixing staff
compensation and, thus, helps them to recruit or to retain capable
personnel. Many of the above measures have already had positive short-term
effects, and they have laid the ground for medium-term structural adjustments
of the Peruvian economy.
23.       In spite of the above policy initiatives, economic performance in
1981 lagged behind expectations; the growth of production and employment was
particularly sluggish. The balance of payments deteriorated substantially as
a result of declining export prices, high interest rates on the country's
debt with commercial banks, and a rapid expansion of imports. The loss in
net reserves is estimated to have amounted to about US$800 million,
equivalent to about 4 percent of GDP. A major factor in the deterioration of
the balance of payments was the large public sector deficit which is
estimated to have reached about 8 percent of GDP. On the positive side,
however, inflation decelerated during the past few months to an annual rate
of about 50 percent, mostly because of the openness of the economy and the
price dampening effects of an increase in imports.
24.       Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the
major challenge facing Peru's economic managers. While the deteriorated
export situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the deficit is
mostly the result of steep increases in expenditures and somewhat lagging
adjustments of petroleum and rice prices. Excess expenditures over initial
budget allocations were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser
priority. To tackle the difficult public finance situation, the Government
is drawing up a restrictive financial program for 1982 with tight credit
ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness. It is also expected that the
Government will trim the public investment program in line with its
investment priorities. The Bank has an ongoing and frank dialogue with the
Peruvian Government on these issues.



25.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, the country is expected to experience economic growth of about
4-5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments situation during
the next two years. The balance of payments situation could, however, become
precarious, if the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures are
being taken to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured
exports, the results of these endeavors may not come in time to countervail
the potential foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is
a continuing need for official development assistance. Taking the above
factors into account, considering an expected debt service ratio hovering
around the 30 percent mark and assuming that the authorities continue the
initiated course of economic policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
26.       The Bank has approved 44 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$960.4 million, net of cancellations. About 29 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 18
percent for agriculture, 17 percent for the energy sector, 18 percent for
mining and industry, about 6 percent for education and urban development and
12 percent for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979.
27.       As of September 30, 1981, US$360.9 million was undisbursed on Bank
loans currently in execution. (Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans as of September 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.) Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the mid-
and late-1970s, primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a
shortage of counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated
during this period. In an effort to improve disbursements: (i) the Bank
opened a    resident mission in Peru and  restructured a number of slow
moving projects; (ii) the Government took steps to provide adequate
counterpart funds for Bank-financed projects; and (iii) the Government also
set up a special commission to monitor loan execution and resolve
administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit. About US$44.0
million was disbursed on project loans in FY1980 and US$70.5 million during
FY1981. This compares with average yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million
during FY1977-79.
28.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strengthening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of local capacity
to prepare, implement and operate projects effectively; and (iv) the
improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past,
Bank lending concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power
sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly
productive fields -- mining, petroleum, agriculture and industry -- to help
Peru to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending for social projects has



- 8 -
also grown. As part of its assistance strategy, the Bank convened a
Consultative Group Meeting for Peru on May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government
arrange financing for its public investment program. The next operations
that would be ready for the Executive Directors' consideration include
projects in petroleum, power, agricultural research and extension, and water
supply.   These would be later followed by projects in rural development,
health, education and housing. The Bank is also considering a technical
assistance loan to help strengthen public sector management.
29. Bank loans constituted an estimated 5.8 percent of Peru's total public
external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980, and absorbed
about 2.6 percent of the country's external debt service in 1980. Assuming
increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral aid by Peru, the
Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign debt by 1985 could
reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt-service could be around 4.5
percent.
30.       IFC commitments as of September 30, 1981 were US$38.3 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$15.9 million were held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of September 30, 1981
is presented in Annex II. The IFC is now considering assistance for a palm
oil venture.
31.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID). Total loan commitments as of December 31,
1980 by IDB and USAID were US$652.4 million and US$348.6 million,
respectively, and their shares of debt service as of end-1980 were estimated
at 0.6 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is
expected to emphasize lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and
small scale irrigation. USAID is expected to stress rural development and
health.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
32.       The transport systems in Peru's three regions vary greatly:  in the
Costa region, where most of the population and economic activity is
concentrated, the system is generally adequate although many roads need
extensive repairs.  While the system in the Sierra is more developed than
that in the Selva, in both these regions it is inadequate and needs
expansion in order to provide access to isolated -- and undeveloped -- areas
of the country. However, the rugged terrain, combined with difficult
geologic and climatic conditions, makes improvement in both regions a slow
and expensive process. The present Government has made improvement of
transport, particularly the road network, a primary objective.
33.       Development of the transport system began with construction of
coastal ports during the colonial period. Then, in the nineteenth century,
independent private railways were built to connect the mining areas in the



- 9 -
Sierra with the coastal ports. During the present century, roads have played
an increasingly important role and now over 80 percent of non-petroleum
freight movements and 70 percent of passenger traffic move by road. Most of
the improved road network is in the Costa. There are a few paved roads
connecting the Costa with the Sierra but only one which connects with the
Selva. As a result, access to the Selva is poor and dependent on dirt and
gravel roads, a handful of regional airports and some small river ports.
Institutional Framework
34.       Overseeing transport sector activities in Peru is the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MTC), which
was formed in 1969. MTC sets policy and investment priorities for the sector
as a whole and executes the road investment program. It is split into four
transport directorates, two of which are responsible for land transport and
the others for water and air transport. These are assisted by various
advisory units, the most important of which are the Sectoral Planning Office
(OSP) and the Regulatory Commission for Transport Tariffs (ORETT). OSP is
responsible for reviewing policies and for preparing a comprehensive
investment plan for the sector based on general guidelines established by the
National Plannning Institute. ORETT is responsible for reviewing and
proposing tariff structures and for regulatory activities. There are also
five public enterprises in the sector which are responsible for operations in
the areas of railways, shipping, ports, airports and urban transport.
35.          While centralization of responsibility for the transport sector
has had the advantage of ensuring good coordination between the transport
modes and has aided planning, the MTC has, in the past, not delegated
sufficient authority to the five transport sector public enterprises referred
to in para. 34. The Government has recently changed this giving more
authority -- particularly for execution of investments -- to these five
enterprises while maintaining planning and policy responsibility in MTC.
These changes are well designed and should streamline sector management.
More far-reaching action is, however, required to improve MTC's highways
directorate (DGC) which is responsible for maintaining and improving the road
network but is not adequately staffed for this task. DGC is discussed in
greater detail in paras. 46-48; strengthening DGC would be a major objective
of the proposed project.
Railways
36.       Peru has never had an integrated railway system; the network
consists of 2,200 km of line linking various mines in the Sierra with ports
in the Costa. As is typical of the countries in the region, railways have
declined in importance and now carry only 5 percent of total traffic. Most
of this consists of minerals for which the railway is expected to continue to
have a role to play in the future. Ninety percent of the railway system is
owned and operated by the Government's National Railways with two lines
operated by CENTROMIN, a large State-owned mining company. Although revenues
generally cover expenses, the National Railways have continually needed
financial support from the Government for investment purposes and a total of
US$76 million is budgeted for the railway -- mostly for rehabilitation of
track and rolling stock -- in OSP's 1981-1985 investment plan.



- 10 -
Ports
37.       Peru is served by 36 public ports which are the responsibility of
the National Port Authority. In addition to serving international traffic --
most of which flows through Lima's port, Callao -- these ports play an
important role in the internal movement of bulk cargo. Coastal traffic
represents about 36 percent of total cargo traffic in Peru and consists
primarily of the shipment of crude oil and oil products from the terminal of
the northern Peru pipeline at Bayovar to Lima and, to a lesser extent, of
iron ore shipments from San Nicolas in the south to supply a steel works at
Chimbote on the north coast. The use of coastal shipping is, however, below
its potential. A study carried out under the Sixth Highway Project (Loan
1025-PE of 1974) indicates there could be substantial economic benefits in
expanding coastal shipping but that such expansion would be difficult under
the current regulatory and institutional structure of the sector. For these
reasons, technical assistance would be provided under the proposed loan to
analyze these problems and recommend a strategy to foster the development of
a combination of trucking and shipping as an alternate to long haul trucking
in the coastal corridor.
38.       Domestic- river traffic, although growing, accounts for only about 3
percent of total ton/km and is mainly diversified dry cargo. This traffic is
carried entirely on the extensive river system of the upper Amazon River and
its tributaries, which provide a natural transportation network for the whole
of eastern Peru. Since this river system is oriented toward Brazil and the
Atlantic and connections with the Costa are poor, it has been largely
underutilized. It was with the idea of spurring greater use of this
potential network that the Lima-Amazon transport corridor concept, financed
under Loans 1025 and 1196-PE, was developed. These loans supported the
completion of an improved highway link from the coast to a river port on the
Amazon headwaters at Pucallpa and for improving other river ports to serve
the Selva.
Civil Aviation
39.       Civil aviation has long been important in integrating isolated
areas of the country into the national economy. One of Peru's main domestic
airlines, Fawcett, was founded in 1928 and is one of the oldest in the
Americas. The other principal carrier is the State-owned airline, AEROPERU.
These two carriers roughly share domestic traffic, which totalled about 1.75
million people, and accounted for 16 percent of total passenger/km, in 1980.
The main airports in the country are in Lima, Cuzco, Iquitos and Arequipa.
In addition, there are 52 other small airports, most of which have
rudimentary facilities. Traffic growth has been rapid (over 9 percent) over
the last ten years but has been constrained because of the inadequate
infrastructure at these airports and because of poor communication and
navigation systems. The Aviation Development Project (Loan 1963-PE of August
19, 1981) is aimed at alleviating these problems through upgrading airports
at four fast-growing regional centers in the Selva and through provision of
needed navigation and communication equipment.



- 11 -
Transport Sector Strategy
40.       Between 1977 and 1979, an average of just over US$100 million per
year, or about 12 percent of public fixed investment, was committed to the
transport sector. Roads accounted for over 80 percent of these investments.
These amounts proved inadequate given Peru's size and stage of development
and the present Government, correctly, plans to give higher priority to
transport. OSP's current investment plan for 1981-1985 provides for average
annual transport sector expenditures of about US$370 million/year or 20
percent of total public fixed investment. Of this total, about 75 percent
would be spent on roads for maintenance, rehabilitation and construction,
while 8 percent would be spent on ports, 11 percent on airports and 6 percent
on other modes.
41.       These investment levels are ambitious given the volume of
expenditures in the past and the institutional constraints, especially in the
highway subsector. The major investment priority in the sector is improving
land transport, owing to (i) the poor condition of the network in the Costa
and the Sierra; and (ii) the need for improved access to large areas in the
Selva. However, execution of the investments will require substantial
improvement of MTC's management. The proposed project includes funds for
hiring experts who would help MTC to carry out its program (para. 60).
The Highway Subsector
42.       Peru's highway network totals abut 58,500 km, of which only 10
percent is paved, 21 percent is gravel and the remaining 69 percent consists
of earth roads and tracks. The length and coverage of the paved network is
inadequate -- road density is half that in the neighboring countries of Chile
and Ecuador -- and much of it is in poor condition and needs repair because
it was not initially well designed for current traffic needs nor has it been
adequately maintained. The backbone of the road network is the Pan-American
Highway which runs 2,700 km along the coast from the northern border with
Ecuador to the southern border with Chile. From this highway several roads
-- most of which are in poor condition -- run inland to large towns in the
Sierra but only a few cross into the Selva. The Bank-financed Trans-Andean
Highway, from Lima to Pucallpa, is the only all-weather road connecting all
three regions of the country. Improved access to the various regional
centers in the Selva is important to the development of Peru. In order to
achieve this, the Government plans to improve Tran-Andean connections and
gradually construct the "Marginal de la Selva" which would be an all-weather
road running through the Selva from the north to the south, on the eastern
side of the Andes.
Road Transportation
43.       Peru's total vehicle fleet amounted to almost 500,000 vehicles in
1980; of these, 82 percent were light vehicles, 4 percent were buses and 14
percent were trucks. Growth in the fleet was only about 2 percent p.a. in
the 70's reflecting the general stagnation of the economy. MTC data on
traffic levels indicate that the highest traffic is on the Pan-American
Highway which experiences traffic levels of as much as 3,000-6,000 vehicles
per day (vpd) over some stretches. Traffic on other important roads in the
Sierra and Selva is much lower generally ranging from 200 to 500 vpd.



- 12 -
44.       The trucking industry is supervised by MTC which sets tariff
levels, recommends taxes and other charges affecting road transport, provides
permits and enforces regulations. The industry is highly fragmented --
private owner-operators provide over 90 percent of the capacity -- and thus
tends to be competitive. However, previous Government policies protected the
local vehicle manufacturing industry which produced trucks of low capacity
with gasoline powered engines. Consequently 90 percent of the truck fleet is
of this type and only the remaining 10 percent are more efficient with diesel
powered engines. The current, more open, economic policy should ease this
situation in time. In addition, there are problems with truck overloading
which significantly increase the wear on the heavily traveled roads and which
can only be controlled through improved enforcement of loading regulations
using weigh scales. MTC has a few scales but needs more to police
overloading. The proposed project would provide technical assistance and
additional weigh scales to MTC for this purpose (para. 68).
Highway Administration
45.       Highway administration, in the past, had been the responsibility of
MTCts Land Transport Directorate (DGTT).  This directorate was responsible
for both managing the highway network and supervising freight and passenger
traffic moving on the network. DGTT had two basic problems, however: it was
badly organized and poorly staffed. As a result, it was not able to manage
the road network efficiently. The specific weaknesses were: (i) weak
overall management -- which led to poor definition of priorities and slow
execution of projects; (ii) unsatisfactory technical work -- which led to
inappropriate design in many cases; (iii) unclear definition of
responsibilities of the regional management -- which adversely affected road
maintenance operations; and (iv) inadequate management of the equipment fleet
-- which led to low availability of the equipment needed for maintenance
operations.
46.       The current Government has taken action to deal with the
organizational problem by splitting DGTT into two directorates, one of which
is responsible for highway infrastructure (DGC) and the other for land
transport operations and regulations. The fact that these functions were
previously combined meant that insufficient attention was given in DGTT's
headquarters to managing the highway network and that DGTT's managers in the
various regional offices were sidetracked from looking after the network
because they were dealing with operational problems such as accidents and
licenses. Now that DGC is only responsible for improving and maintaining
highways, more attention will be given to the network at headquarters --
where most of the overall planning and contract supervision is done -- and in
the regional offices where most of the road maintenance is executed.
47.       DGC has, however, inherited DGTT's staffing problem.  In recent
years, DGTT was seriously weakened by the loss of engineers, both to the
private sector -- as a result of low salaries -- and to other public sector
organizations offering better career possibilities. In addition, retirement
took a toll of senior staff, while DGTT failed to develop younger highway
engineers and experienced managers. The present staffing of 116 engineers



- 13 -
and less than 100 technicians is inadequate for managing the highway
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance programs which are presently
being prepared by the Government.
48.       The Minister of Transport and Communications is taking action to
deal with the staffing problem by finding a solution to the related problems
of low salaries and consequently unattractive career prospects in the
Ministry. More specifically, the Minister will develop new grade classi-
fications and a revised salary structure for MTC staff. After exchanging
views with the Bank, this structure would be put into effect by January 1,
1984 (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). In the interim, MTC plans
to (i) increase the use of consultants for technical work including design,
supervision of construction and management of force account works; and (ii)
hire, under special salary conditions, experts to fill key positions in DGC.
The proposed loan would help finance both these efforts (para. 68). MTC
also plans to implement a training program to upgrade the quality of
operational staff; the basic features of this have been agreed with the
Bank. This detailed program is being prepared with the assistance of a
consultant under the Bank's ongoing transportation project (Loan 1196-PE of
1976); implementation of the program would also be financed by the proposed
loan (para. 68).
Highway Improvement and Maintenance
49.       Road improvement and new construction is managed by DGC's construc-
tion department but is generally carried out by private contractors who are
often directly supervised by consultants acting on behalf of DGC. There are
about 600 registered contractors in Peru, 25 of whom have the capacity to
carry out road works. The quality of the work done by these firms is reason-
ably good.
50.       Because of the seismic, topographic and climatic conditions in
Peru, highway maintenance is very difficult, and a large amount of emergency
maintenance is required to keep roads open in the face of landslides and
floods. Moreover, for years budget allocations for maintenance have been
insufficieat. Consequently, the network has continued to deteriorate (para.
42). Road maintenance is the responsibility of MTC's regional offices but a
separate Mechanical Equipment Service (SEM) of MTC has been responsible for
providing, repairing and operating the maintenance equipment which they use.
SEM has not had sufficient funds to keep the equipment working, however, and
of its fleet of 2,500 vehicles only 40 percent were operating in 1980.
Highway Strategy and Financing
51.       Upon coming to power, the present Government demonstrated its
strong commitment to a vigorous policy of improving the road network through
strengthening MTC's highway administration (para. 46) and through provision
of additional funds for both constructing and maintaining roads (para. 40).
Average annual funds provided for roads in the 1981-1985 investment plan are
US$280 million which is well above the US$80 million average provided in the
last two years. Over 70 percent of these funds are allocated to road
construction and improvements -- especially for parts of the Marginal de la
Selva road -- but the plan also provides increased funds for maintenance.



- 14 -
The maintenance allocation of US$38 million for 1981 was considerably higher
in real terms than the US$15 million provided on average during the last two
years. In addition, the investment plan includes US$40 million to get SEM's
maintenance fleet back in shape.
52.       Seventy five percent of financing for road expenditures is provided
from the national budget and foreign loans with the remainder coming from
road tolls, license fees and rentals. Foreign loans have come mainly from
IDB, USAID and the Bank in the past, but in the last twelve months about
US$200 million has been borrowed from foreign private banks in order to get
the road program quickly underway. The Bank supports the increased priority
the Government is giving to road investment but is concerned that the funds
provided be appropriately balanced between rehabilitation, maintenance and
new construction. The provision of sufficient funds for maintenance and
repair of roads in accordance with sound engineering practices is, therefore,
called for under the proposed loan (Section 4.04 (a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The new road construction which is currently underway is part of
an overall plan which is well justified but there is a danger that lower
priority projects may be started within this period. In order to help
minimize this possibility, the Government and the Bank would exchange views
on any substantial new road projects outside the plan -- those involving over
US$10 million in investments -- which are proposed during execution of the
proposed project (Section 4.06 (e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Road User Charges
53.       In the case of Peru, road users pay some direct charges -- in the
form of road tolls and license fees -- to MTC. These amounted to about US$12
million in 1980. In addition, indirect road user charges -- such as fuel
taxes, import duties and fees -- are paid to the Government and these
amounted in 1980 to about US$180 million. Total road user charges,
therefore, more than covered the $115 million spent on highways in 1980 and
this is typical of the pattern over the last few years. Furthermore, user
charges should increase because of the increased economic activity in Peru
and because one of the main user charges -- gasoline prices, including taxes
-- are expected to increase. An important element of the Bank's policy
dialogue with Peru has been to encourage the Government to increase fuel
prices. There has been some progress on this score. These have been raised
steadily in the last year and the price of gasoline is now just over US$1 per
gallon - though the price of other petroleum derivatives is lower; further
increases are scheduled and the Government intends to raise the price of
gasoline to US$1.25/gallon by mid-1982. The domestic price of other
petroleum derivatives would also be raised pari passu with that of gasoline.
Past Bank Group Lending
54.       The Bank has made 13 loans for US$277.3 million for transportation
development in Peru. Four loans, totaling US$20.2 million, have been for
ocean ports, including the first Bank loan to Peru in 1952. There have been
seven loans totaling US$186 million for highways, a US$13.1 million loan for
railroad rehabilitation in 1963 and, finally, a US$58 million loan for
airport development in 1981.
55.       The two most recent transportation projects (Loan 1025-PE of 1974
and 1196-PE of 1976), which have been carried out by MTC, have encountered
implementation problems. Improvements in the Lima-Amazon Corridor, which
these loans helped finance, was substantially delayed because of inadequate



- 15 -
design during preparation and poor management during implementation. As a
result, there were cost overruns on both projects and the loans were
eventually restructured, with the Executive Directors' agreement (President's
Memoranda R78-36 and R79-59) to eliminate sections which could not be
completed within a reasonable period. As part of the restructuring of Loan
1196-PE, financing for road maintenance activities was also increased because
of its high priority. After restructuring, better progress was made in both
projects and Loan 1025-PE was completed in early 1981. All road sections and
ports under the reformulated Loan 1196-PE have either been completed or are
under construction; the project is expected to be completed in mid-1982.
56.       There have been Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) on three
Peru transportation projects. The first (SecM 75-567 of August 1, 1975)
covers the Port of Pisco Loan (Loan 446-PE of 1966). The PPAR concludes that
this project, completed with some two years of delay, enabled the Bank to
play an important role in strengthening the sector's institutions, including
the establishment of a National Port Authority in 1970. However, it notes
that, by the time the project was completed, the Government had not taken any
action to provide housing for port workers and to readjust port tariffs to
reflect costs -- both conditions of the loan. The second PPAR (SecM 76-292
of April 23, 1976) prepared in connection with the Second Road Construction
Loan (Loan 425-PE-of 1965) concludes that the project's primary objective --
the construction of a paved road between La Oroya and Aguaytia -- was not
achieved. This was mainly because of large cost overruns caused by
extraordinarily difficult topography, inclement weather and landslides, and
the shortage of counterpart funds triggered by a fiscal crisis in Peru in the
late sixties.  Nevertheless, a revised, scaled-down project suggested by the
Bank was completed with a delay of three years. The Government generally
complied with covenants, particularly those concerning a user charge study
and axle load control. The third PPAR (SecM 80-590 of July 29, 1980) dealt
with the Road Reconstruction Project (Loan 706-PE of 1970). The loan was
made to assist Peru in rebuilding roads in the Huaraz Valley after a 1970
earthquake. The PPAR concluded that there were considerable delays and cost
overruns because engineering work had not been done at the time of approval.
However, the project contributed to regional institution building, and the
roads now provide good land access to the Huaraz Valley, thus opening up the
region to economic development. Special efforts have been made in the design
of the proposed project to incorporate the lessons learned from these
previous projects. Firstly, detailed engineering was done on the major road
sections prior to negotiations -- this should reduce the possibility of costs
being underestimated. Secondly, special steps are being taken to strengthen
MTC's highways directorate so that it will implement the project effectively
(para. 68).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.       The present Government has made improvement of the road network a
prime objective of its development strategy and requested Bank support in
this effort. Early in 1981, Bank staff identified high priority elements of
the Government's program that deserved support and have helped MTC to prepare
the project recommended in this report.



- 16 -
58.       The project was appraised in March of 1981.  The appraisal
mission's report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Eighth Highway Project
(No. 3619b-PE, dated January 21, 1982) is being distributed separately.
Annex III contains a supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations were
held in Washington from December 3, 1981 to December 7, 1981. The Peruvian
Delegation was headed by Mr. Nicolas Hurtado, Advisor to the Minister of
Transport and Communications.
Project Objectives and Description
59.       The objectives of the proposed project are to provide assistance
for key elements of the Government's highway investment program by supporting
priority road rehabilitation and improvements while also assisting in the
needed strengthening of DGC's management and its maintenance activities.
60.       Specifically the project would consist of:
(a) rehabilitation of about 195 km of paved roads, mostly in the
northern part of the Costa, as well as engineering for future
rehabilitation of an additional 800 km of roads;
(b) improvement to a gravel or paved, two lane standard of about 400 km
of roads needed to support regional development programs being
carried out in the jungle highland regions of the Selva Central and
Alto Mayo, as well as engineering for these and further road
improvements in both regions;
(c) provision of spare parts, equipment, workshop improvements and
advisory services needed to strengthen highway maintenance;
(d) strengthening highway administration through contracting of
17 experts to fill key positions in MTC as well as supporting
development of annual training programs and financing consultant
services for planning and installing an improved vehicle weight
control system; and
(e) consulting services for studies aimed at (i) preparing an
agricultural development scheme for the Selva Central region to be
served by the road improvements mentioned in (b); (ii) improving
coastal shipping operations; (iii) defining a better mechanism to
finance feeder road construction; and (iv) improving sector
planning.
Road Rehabilitation
61.       The Government initially identified 700 km of roads urgently
needing repair and this component -- consisting of priority elements of this
program -- accounts for about 28 percent of the total costs of the project.
Specific road sections to be repaved are: (i) the Talara-Cancas road (98
km), a heavily traveled section of the Pan-American Highway carrying about
700 vpd, which passes through tortuous, hilly terrain in the northern part of
Peru.   Most of the traffic  is related to activity in the oil production
center of Talara as well as local agricultural production and the border



- 17 -
trade with Ecuador; (ii) the Piura-Paita road (53 km), which is also part of
the Pan-American Highway carrying around 700 vpd. Traffic consists of
agricultural goods transported from the major cotton center of Piura to the
port of Paita; and (iii) the Morococha-La Oroya road (44 km), a heavily
traveled section of the central highway carrying about 1,900 vpd. This road
runs through the important copper mining center of La Oroya and is part of
the direct link between the Selva Central agricultural region and Lima.
62.       Under this component, financing would also be provided for
engineering design and supervision of the above sections and for engineering
of further rehabilitation works on about 800 km of roads which would be
improved under a possible follow-up project. The actual sections for which
this engineering work would be done would be identified based on a study
being carried out by consultants financed under Loan 1196-PE. This study is
expected to be completed by August 1982 and MTC would consult with the Bank
on the results of the study by September 1, 1982 and would adopt an agreed
four-year road rehabilitation program based on the study. This program would
be reviewed annually by MTC and the Bank (Section 4.06 (c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).  In addition, the loan would finance a pilot project aimed at
introducing better landslide control techniques which could be used in Peru.
Road Improvements to Support Regional Development
63.       The largest component of the project (59 percent of total costs)
would consist of civil works for improving the main roads serving the Selva
Central and the Rio Mayo areas as well as the engineering for these and other
road improvements. One of the Government's highest priorities is to expand
the agricultural frontier in the jungle highlands, where both these regions
are located, and it has launched major rural development projects in both
areas for this purpose. Rapid development of these areas is important
because of the shortage of good, accessible land in Peru which is suitable
for arable farming.
64.       The Selva Central is particularly important because it is
relatively close to Lima and its climate, soils and topography allow it to be
used for a range of agricultural purposes. The area already produces over 25
percent of Peru's output of coffee, oranges, bananas and avocados. The long
range development plan for the Selva Central envisages a large expansion in
this production. The development would involve six major valleys which
ultimately would open over 3 million hectares of agricultural land to
production and permit settlement of over 700,000 people. The road
improvements in the Selva Central (263 km) which would be financed under this
project would mean that almost all the narrow, unpaved roads connecting this
area and Lima would be upgraded to a two lane paved standard.
65.       The Rio Mayo area is about 800 km north of the Selva Central and
is also developing rapidly with spontaneous settlement by people who have
come from the Costa and the Sierra. The area's population has now reached
about 250,000 and production comes mainly from small-scale farmers. This
region is seen as having good potential for production of rice, fruits,



- 18 -
coffee, tea, beef and oil palm, some of which may be exported. The area is
currently being developed with financial assistance from USAID. The Bank is
also preparing a rural development project here. The road improvements
financed under the project (137 km) would mean that most of the main road
connecting the major towns in the region -- which has been cut by landslides
several times over the past ten years -- would be improved from a gravel to a
paved surface and made safer because of better drainage and slope protection
provided.
Improving Road Maintenance
66.       About nine percent of project costs would be associated with
improving road maintenance operations through acquisition of spare parts,
workshop tools, some new vehicles and provision of technical support needed
to repair vehicles.
67.       SEM has already begun taking steps to increase the number of
maintenance vehicles in working order. Using spare parts purchased under
Loan 1196-PE, SEM is expected to repair 138 vehicles and pieces of equipment
by mid-1982 and will establish an initial stock of spare parts and tools
needed for preventive maintenance of the equipment. The proposed project
would expand this program through rehabilitation of another 275 vehicles and
pieces of equipment by mid-1983 as well as by increasing the stock of spare
parts.   The spare parts needed to overhaul the equipment would be defined
with the assistance of consultants and the program for such procurement would
be reviewed and agreed with the Bank prior to placing orders (Section 3.08 of
the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, by September 1, 1982, and in each
successive year thereafter, the Government would provide to the Bank, for
comment, a program for equipment renewal and would then provide sufficient
funds for equipment renewal (sections 4.06 (b) and 4.04 (c)) of the draft
Loan Agreement). This program would initially be based on the results of a
study being financed under Loan 1196-PE. Finally, targets for improving
maintenance operations for 1983-1986 -- including estimates of related budget
requirements -- were agreed during negotiations. The Government would
present to the Bank its specific annual maintenance programs, consistent with
these targets, for review and comment, by July 31, 1982 and each year
thereafter (Section 4.06 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Strengthening DGC .
68.       In order to strengthen highway administration in the short term,
the project would include provision of funds (2 percent of total costs) for:
(i)  contracting of about 17 experts, to serve as in-line and advisory
staff in DGC to provide experienced managerial and/or technical
expertise in road maintenance, equipment and workshop operations,
geotechnical and soils engineering, planning and also highway
design and construction management. Because of the importance of
this action to the overall success of this project, hiring of the
first five of these experts, who would be instrumental in project
startup, would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan
agreement (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(ii)  contracting specialists to help MTC start annual training programs
for operational staff. These programs would focus on improving
road and equipment maintenance; and



- 19 -
(iii) technical assistance services by consultants for planning and
establishing an improved vehicle weight control system (including
purchase of related equipment). Adoption of such a system by
December 31, 1982 was agreed during negotiations (Section 4.04 (e)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Transport Sector Technical Assistance
69.       The project would also include funds to carry out three studies and
to provide an advisor to OSP to help investment planning. The component
would constitute under 2 percent of total costs. These studies would:
(i) prepare a detailed agricultural development project, including
feeder road requirements, in the Selva Central area directly served
by the road improvements which would be financed under this loan;
(ii) study traffic demand and recommend regulatory and/or organizational
measures for instituting integrated cabotage/trucking services
along the coast; and
(iii) define a mechanism which would improve the current process of
financing feeder and access road investments. The current process
is closely tied to other highway financing and thus makes these
local road projects vulnerable to cuts in funding.
The advisor would help OSP to prepare an investment plan which would be based
on sound technical analysis. Related to this, MTC would develop an improved
classification of its road network which defines and distributes
responsibility for road planning, design, construction and maintenance among
national, regional and municipal authorities by October 1, 1982 (Section 4.05
of the draft Loan Agreement). This is useful because, although
responsibilities are currently centralized within DGC, the Government is
considering decentralizing management of the highway network and it will be
necessary to establish such a system in order to provide a framework for
possible delegation of some of MTC's responsibilities to regional authorities
in the future.
Project Execution
70.       The project would be implemented over a four-year period (1982-
1985). MTC -- with the assistance of consultants -- would be responsible for
overall project execution except for the preparation of the Selva Central
project. This preinvestment study would be executed through the special
projects unit in the Prime Minister's Office which is responsible for
implementing the overall development program of the Selva Central. A
detailed project execution schedule was agreed during negotiations with MTC
along with a detailed plan of action for achieving the project's objectives.
Execution of the project would be overseen by the international office in MTC
which was established under Loan 1196-PE in order to coordinate projects
being carried out with international agencies. The Government would provide
this office with the funds, facilities, services and other resources needed



- 20 -
for it to execute the project (Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the draft Loan
Agreement). In addition, Banco de la Nacion were represented in the proposed
loan's negotiations because of its role as the Government's fiscal agent
and because it would be the bank in which the special account provided for
under the project is established (para. 75).
Project Costs and Financing
71.       The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$186 million.
This includes local taxes, which represent about 15 percent of total costs,
physical contingencies amounting to about 15 percent of costs for civil works
and price contingencies, in dollar terms, of 10 percent per year in 1982/83
and 9 percent thereafter. These price contingencies are slightly higher than
the Bank guidelines reflecting past experience with projects in Peru. The
project's foreign exchange costs come to US$96 million or 52 percent of total
costs. The proposed loan of US$93 million, equivalent to 50 percent of
project costs, would cover the foreign exchange component of the project
items financed by the Bank. Parallel co-financing would be provided for one
road section in the Selva Central with an estimated cost of US$6 million.
The Federal Republic of Germany -- through their aid agency Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau -- is considering a loan of about US$4.5 million which would
cover the section's foreign exchange cost of US$3.0 million and US$1.5
million in local costs. The Government would provide the balance of the
funds needed. A total of US$1 million of the proposed loan would finance
retroactive expenditures incurred since March 1981. The main uses of these
funds would be for (i) the engineering work performed to prepare road
sections for bidding; (ii) costs of urgent components of the Selva Central
study; and (iii) the costs of the advisors which are hired prior to loan
signature.
Procurement and Disbursement
72.       Civil works financed by the Bank -- amounting to about US$97
million, excluding contingencies, would be procured by international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Altogether, 12
contracts would be bid in four groups, at about two-month intervals; bidding
in this way should result in individual contracts ranging in size from
US$3.5-10 million, with groups of contracts ranging from US$13-35 million,
thus assuring the attractiveness of the jobs to foreign contractors while
still making them small enough for local firms to be able to participate.
73.       Road maintenance equipment and workshop tools, having a base cost
of about US$4.5 million, would be procured by international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Improvements to workshops and
training facilities, expected to have a cost of about US$1.9 million
(excluding contingencies) would be advertised locally, in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Spare parts needed for overhauling maintenance equipment, amounting to about
US$3.8 million, would be defined with the assistance of consultants and would
also be procured through local competitive bidding where possible. In cases
where local bidding is not possible these parts would be procured directly
from established dealers. Qualified local suppliers of equipment produced in
Peru and those from Cartagena Agreement member countries participating in
international competitive bidding would be accorded a margin of preference of
15 percent or the prevailing import taxes and custom duty, whichever is
lower. The project includes about 250 man-months of technical assistance
services, 110 of which would be provided by local consultants and 140 of



- 21 -
which would be provided by foreign consultants with an average cost per month
of US$2,300 and US$10,800 respectively. Consultants provided under the
project would have qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and would be hired
under conditions and terms acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 (a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
74.       Loan disbursement is expected to take four years running from mid-
1982 through mid-1986 and would be made against: (i) 51 percent of total
expenditures, excluding the retentions for performance guarantee, for civil
works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment, spare parts
and training abroad; (iii) 70 percent of total expenditures for technical
assistance, studies, contracted services;and (iv) 25 percent of local
expenditures and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for engineering.
75.       MTC has had difficulty in executing Bank projects in the past
because it has not had the funds needed to pay civil works contractors while
waiting to be reimbursed by the Bank; this problem has been compounded by the
high rate of local inflation --  over 70 percent in 1981.   In order to
permit more rapid provision of funds, the Bank would establish a
dollar-denominated special account in the Banco de la Nacion on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02 (b) through (f) of the
draft Loan Agreement). This account would be expected to consist of an
estimated three months Bank disbursements for civil works at any time.
Together with this, the Government would by, August 31, 1982, also establish
a revolving fund -- in the Banco de la Nacion and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank -- which would be used to pay the civil works
contractors. This revolving fund would consist of not less than two months
payment needs and would be replenished by the Government -- and the Bank's
working fund -- each time a payment is made (Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits
76.       The rate of return on the project, as a whole, is conservatively
estimated to be 39 percent. The quantified benefits of the project would be
the savings in vehicle operating costs, travel time and maintenance costs.
The majority of these benefits are attributable to existing traffic, though
higher than average growth rates are used to reflect the development which
would be expected to take place as a result of the project.
77.       The rehabilitation component of the project -- representing about
28 percent of total costs -- has an economic rate of return of 37 percent
with the various components having returns ranging from 20 percent to 57
percent. The road improvement component -- representing about 59 percent of
total costs -- has an economic rate of return of 40 percent with the
individual sub-components ranging between 18 percent and 63 percent.
Sensitivity analysis indicates that construction costs would have to increase
by 121 percent for the rehabilitation component, or by 176 percent for the
road improvement component for these components to become uneconomic.
Specific benefits have not been calculated for the maintenance and technical
assistance components, which comprise 13 percent of project costs, but it is
estimated that these would yield an economic rate of return at least as high
as the rest of the project because of their combined effect on lowering
transport costs and on improving investment efficiency.



- 22 -
78.       In addition, the project has substantial benefits which have not
been quantified. Firstly, the road improvement components would promote more
rapid development of the Selva Central and the Alto Mayo. These are two
rural areas of Peru which have great agricultural potential but which
have suffered from inadequate transport infrastructure, which is a serious
bottleneck to production and marketing. Secondly, the project would lead to
substantial improvement of the management of the road transport subsector
and, through the strengthening of DGC, should permit highway improvements to
be carried out in a timely manner and without major cost overruns despite the
fact that the Government is pushing ahead with an ambitious investment
program in the sector.
Project Risks
79.       The major risk lies with DGC's capacity to manage the project.  In
order to reduce this risk, the project provides for hiring consultants to
directly supervise major civil works and includes provision for hiring
individuals to strengthen DGC's capacity. Also, the exchange of views
between the Government and the Bank on major new roads projects (para. 55)
should reduce the risk that implementation of this proposed project would be
delayed because of a diversion of DGC's scarce managerial resources to other,
lower priority projects. Finally, there is a risk that this project, like
previous Bank-financed road operations, would experience substantial cost
overruns. The fact that, in this case, detailed engineering has already been
substantially completed should reduce this risk to acceptable levels.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru, the Banco de
la Nacion (in which the special account would be opened, and the Government's
revolving fund maintained, and which, under Peruvian law, must be a party to
all agreements providing for external loans to the Central Government) and
the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
81.       The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. A special condition of
effectiveness would be the hiring of five key experts needed to strengthen
DGC.
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 25, 1982
Washington,D.C.



ANNEX I
-24 -                                             Page 1 of 5
Page I
TABLE 3A
PERU -SOCIAn L INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1285.2                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     305.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US%i                  230.0        410.0     730.0                1616.2                     2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      436.3        691.8     736.9                1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0       13461.0   17149.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3          57.4      66.5                  64.2                       53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        28.5
RTATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         7.9         10.5      13.3                  34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      33.0         44.0      54.6                  94.5                      133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                          43.6         44.3      42.8                  40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                          52.0        51.8       53.6                  55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ANOVE                    4.4          3.9       3.6                   4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4          2.8       2.7                   2.4                        1.5
URBAN                               5.1          5.0       4.3                   3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.4         41.8      37.8                  31.4                       22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.7         14.5      11.1                   8.4                        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.0       2.6                   2.3                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FPOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0        102.0      86.0                 108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCEhT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.0         99.0      97.0                 107.6                     125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           62.0         61.0      59.0                  65.8                      92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0         25.0      24.0                  34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      28.5         19.6      13.7                   7.6                        3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTE (YEARS)    47.7          53.5      58.0                  64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THoUSAND)                              ..        122.0/c    86.0                  70.-9                     25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              14.6         35.0      48.3                  65.7
URhBAN                             30.2         58.0      60.0                  79.7
RURAL                               0.8          8.0      25.0                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         36.0      34.0                  59.9
URBAN                                ..         52.0      51.0                  75.7
RURAL                                ..         16.0        ..                  30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2011.7       1904.9    1545.1                1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2205.0/d      738.0     745.0                1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TUTAL                             425.1/e      469.6     542.7                 471.2                     262.3
URBAN                                ..        524.8     430.1                 558.0                     191.8
RURAL                                ..       3055.3    5747.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         19.0      23.0                    ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.9          4.8/f
URBAN                               4.8          4.97       ..
RURAL                               4.9          4.67 
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.3          1.9/f
UKRAN                               2.0          i.77        ..
RURAL                               2.7          2.477      .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              26.0         32.1/f
URBAN                              50.7         54.3/f
KUKAL                               4.2  .       2.7/f



ANNEX I
-25 -                                               Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9GS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TUTAL                  83.0        103.0      112.0                 101.7                     105.9
MALE                  95.0        111.0      116.0                  103.0                     109.6
FEMALE                71.0         96.0      106.0                  101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  15.0         30.0       50.0                   35.3                     66.3
MALE                  18.0         34.0       53.0                   34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                13.0         26.0       46.0                   35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY) 20.0            17.0       16.0                   30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         35.0       40.0                  29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                           12.0         17.0       29.0                   15.7                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         72.5/f    79.7                    80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8.0         17.1       18.5                  42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         108.0        135.1      135.4                 215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.2         29.3       50.8                  89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ,        123.3       51.0                   62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ,                                               3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3193.9       3896.8    5079.7
IEMALE (PERCENT)                    21,1         20.7       22.8                   22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               53.0         44.8       37.8                   35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19,0         20.1       20.0                   23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  31.4        28.9       29.6                   31.8                      42.3
MALE                                   49.6        45.8       45.6                   49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                                 13.2         12.0      13.6                   14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.7        1.6                   1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64 4Th         61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2 5. I 9/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8:011          7.o7F
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                                      235.0
RURAL                                                      180.0                  187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCONE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ,                  293.0                 513.9
RURAL                                  ,                   200.0                  362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URRAN                                                       49.0
RURAL
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/n   The grop aver.Rpag for each indicator are popultion-eighted arithmetic means.  Coverae of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betweent 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimtae, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1970-75;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972; ,j Personal Income within labor force,
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita to be shown in the 1981 Bank Atlas
is $930 (at 1978-80 prices).
May 1981



ANNEX I
-26-                                                           Page 3of 5
DEFINITIONS OF S10IAL INDItCATORS
Notes   A lthough the Iota at  dne,.c-        nces   etrly  fudedth  setauh.ittis   dl reiable, It should aso he totd that they say cot be in,ter
tanloollpcosetebl  becaue i1 te lac  of  cedardlesd deficiit Ion  adcincPaa used by differren  c               Lcebsb  -1l1-stug ite dat.-  e date are,...
chelte ueult  descrbe   reac  ta gde, indiate1 tre-ds, acd  c-.ete  etIn eajor difference-e                                     ...I--.
The,eeec  gop r  1~1  tIe sam  co-cY  r-uP of the  ujetcunr  adI Ia  cutr..y getP etch seish.t tigber   .. a                            Seag  ictme chat the counrlY grouP
aid Ls -ot uitor, cat-t ua  he ene-isd It ratio    nrgso   n   ctec   caohr    hs   ceae   c   tyueu   nutelgte lei
ice Indicatr atec ine  -tg theou ye a.d                    gef ..cc   gops.
LAND AREA (thouseu.d eqAt.~)                                                                     pplto    e  o2lo   e      uo      a,adrrl   oua  o    r
Tota  - Total surfac  are  -orising li-d area and iland -asrt.                                    ur      -I n  reel:Ottdd by thtetreePtt-i-o.e b,1  h,st        :Pio   boptl hde,
for trPe., Puatrsa, earkce  end kitl,ho geod-c  ir to lIce fa1lc; IOTA data                    huhbilii--       ___cnrta   toiertlerecI      llhucapeesseetly starred
hy at Isa  one p hyttolan.  ll-bahlec-c  prr-idie .......ipellYo.eto-
1971, an.d 1979 data.                                                                            cd lansat   es.  daldle   t     hihnfi crie   otpstlertsr
cod 11lignt-    eriet  tnta   asadIcdo-   uoetan   eoirtlsap                                      odrrl  epia= oa  o   urll.stet   tdndia   adscec
ceitny  to utLegrcaofcol eqinal.n                       1960pia  lt, 1970, aid 1919             cener.       ipcala    nrta    r   clded o     u              _e.tti.
date.                                                                  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~daaltee. aer NTsia   a      Tea  cushee  f adeisairca to or discharges
true hospitals Oteided hy the  umba  of bade.
PIPiULATION ADil AITAI. STATItTICS
TebiPouaco.   i-Ta  Ichousada  - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1979                          HOUfS,fIG
Irhan pecuIlation     . Porer  o.ficl-l - Ratio  of urban  i total population;                    I  cehold tesee  iagru   f'tdndul he'hr   ite    utr
ditfeteit definlicoa c  urh so. area tr affec .o.....rtbilct' if dat.ndter..                                    ags   A hoardere  ogrero   a   c  be taloded it
aSui  oetclea; 1960, 1970, aid 19 19 dan.                                                       ashuehl   o   tabio    upsa
Perulsclon Protections                                                 A-see  obetferos ear  os  - total  ur-e.  sed ruesi - Anerags.s
Porulatien  t rear 211  - Correntpopulationprojenosbt asdi  18,e of parsons pee toes in1 alluban, end e-el  -noPid  --ntsisaal
total Poplto         asad st and their cotnailty and fertilit1y rce.19elns   essen.p   relrealdsiTs.aactutes
Ie-1  anMfaIa  Ife. enp-tacy satieigs  17.5 pears.  The pars-                                iyre      ..cldeelseadeleret   2liigqetr
aeeefrfrllity rtce ale  h-n   he   .aee  eoicg decline in                           of toc.., ubrban  and rural d.ellirge  esp-ctir-ly.
tern fOlio  aer ding to Loose le-e  end past              ...i piat g pertiagn-.
Ele' countY be char aaattned ore of these oboe cosbit-ttin   of a-rt"lit,                rfLAD  t
liacietert onpuieniot-li e scatlenarfc copulation there Is nigroech sinc        rianehl- tal . sa  lead fesela -_ Cross totl, sal  end fea1l
sein  cosat.  This ba achied  -1 p  tt- feit 1- Ity races deelia. to                          p,rtap  a-he-1-ge pepulctna  t            li  i-oludee children aged'i7  I Pi-il
ufttr relacesitsef team  ~ly.testbetypplaicle 'In'.sut iarleaithacnrsadiotire acttl                                                        1 cc   -ap eareed     ... pste
-aiasted on tie hatte of the proj e...ed chare. eie.    h   o  the 1popolaco_                  sine    s  popile ers heIst or shone tie crfial. esheel ass.
tnhepea     000. sod  h.erace  of d-olinsderi icttstr  rie-teodrrc                                           .l-oe. I-lee_df-sla-ort                  aseers  etcea
lear stti . lonern ecrlettit     tetchyd - Th. Year  h-e stat binary pouato                       poidsgnea.  oatea, Pe teaher tritsg i-ateb-ti..e tea foplft
Par s. km. - Kid-perpyo-        re  paraet    be ae qlii  eiaril 0...eaboe (IGOflaea p rart.ct of sarsadaryf - Vesab.tL.-Iteibla
...a I      IeI96,190I  o  1979 data.                                                         icriude teebticel. iduail,            cs  pengee-  ofteh epse..s iadeped-
Petal. At. ecebtultacal lstd-oeepot.ed aechice foragicitort   .d                            e Yio    asacet   f  eodr   annna
only; l9Ou, 1970 ted IOTA data.                                                              Foril-tsecherrto- pley  so   erase1st111dniersid it
"Pelruisci   Age fltecAcr. feetese) - Childeen fl-lu peers).  -okiog-age 115-                       primary -c   eedr   aasdndd  bpcmeshitaiaai  r
64  yas.ad retrdfi   yseaden-e asPer..eccgee oftid-yearpopo-                                      erra..esdi"gie1-l.
Jatiot; 1960, 17, 197     199  aa.Oul   icrayrae                                                                      -orac   -dLinsteegrilt         fare atred en  ierbce
Pooclation CGo-h raia                           IlrecI   oa  -atul groth canes of -toa  aId-      adstaprecga            tol adult prpoietia- age  ItIer   n   tr
yea  rrru1latinc   for 1950-6, 196-7f.ad 1970-7.
Perulacirn Crotch Rate feertet-urban_- .tcul ge               es   f urban  .Pop-            CNfaTitt
laton   fr  95-Al  16071  ed  91970-79                                               peeie  Cats frecioadrelaos-Pssgrrretnie    tr
Crude Blirth Rrate2 fer   ....eadf - Aucoa  loebrhs Per th...e.d of aid-pea                       oars  atogls -i      sc aig-   pehsoss;  ccidee ambalane, hearses ai
Po palatiot; f960, 1970,. en  1979 data. -                                                       iitrthiia
crud.e lechbaefrttoead  - Auc.aI deetih  prr thoue...da of sid-ra-                              Radio. Riscainere : fret t...c..  ruatn         ALl type  of retainrs Car radio
rrisRIen;  tcm              _8t,  n   u9 b dta  ofsaod-nahaasra  roito pr  ti:,                                                         an  of ppits;seae   c
hertrs   erdcisptedi  h   aeice    reo  ag-pa Ifli  far-                                        sentes it effete; den  fr  are  Yasra say -te  hegsraeeti              s
til ic  rates  usualYfisesanrgesdgistA.17,ed 1979.se  erttris  aholiaad bies..ciu..
nt-  cC chi~ld--isein  age 115-A4 pastel air  -  birhti-co -ea  deoi-a  totssaa    ireaic er th..s..d"y-lain     S- shows  -baseseg  tie-
all _erted toas  in san  age sttp.                                                             odecsio   "dIy genera  is caen -asPare-"  defIsadasp-isdiA-1
publi-ni.. denotd Prcaailp to e                  ...dag   _aea  cv.= t  Is  -eaidarld
FWD~ ANDt NUTRITIO                                                                                  no be "daily" it in efar  a          -ae  fee  cites a wash.
icdem  of Poed Poodoccios ret CapitaIlh-Iel     - inter of pee capita ..y...                    Cites Actua  A1-edacerer  tssue ase rear- Based ec abs tibe  of
rooceofeifoed  -eeiia          rdoinauldsse   i   edad                                ciek.bins sod dories  hs year.  teuiadasic    o drie-ba.  Lese
iso Ialna  pear--  basis.  Comed itnecoe  p            Esaygd  fag. sgro...                sod whlei
icatnad o  aeg      ur   are edibla tad --ctin  uratsI     refse and
teaar  aeldad).  Agg-9regt  prodeonioc cq each ceconry ia baseddon                         LABOR FORCE
naional  --era   predeter price _aight;161i,191    Id 919daa                                 fTal_ LaborPre  n         edf-fetm         -a cte- paratta   beolade
ret natinastreir of  alories Ir rrc  of  rolaedl-Coariep ten                            rmd foreste.cepipd    buteI           idiug.    ceie,saat,  ate..-.
eneergy~qoinale-  of setfed                -ippia  nlabla  ncoee  pee'tl   raia               rero  ppatotf algEe.    efinitions. is -ari.u.. e e    r
Per dap.  Available aipplitekcoprise doesetic pretucioc.  Ixenecsieeeco  cesPerable; 1960. lOll aid 1979 dan..
eao .an   hue  Lo stoc.   Net Iep - It  -olula eciwl 'feed, asd,                 rsaefeiai              al   ee  ipce  pcatgeo   ni.cbot fu-r.
qeuoibtana   i   edpeielg   aid.7 lessee be LIscitbenli-   t.qie                           urri           rrac  -_lbor forc  is terming, fereane,7ybahstiagae
maca  stscn atd by FA90 base.d on plyailolgic   seed  fo  noma  eon1-                 ifahing ae peoennaS. uf cobs  Iabor Foree; 1960.  90 ed 1979 das
ni he iai  to...iderieg e-ir-rs.cIt  ttpraue   ndy seights,  S-e                    pedaanr_r feeei  - Lbher tepee it .iaing. osaructi-a  sasratnariog
adsediatrihtioc ofP p..e..i.n  atd         nig11peonfiateri                              syd electicity, escapec   gases. p--ttgs of rtta  Iabte ferns  1960.
leasehold tenslI;I1961-65.10,sd97da,                                                          lope and 1979 dana.
Per  sria soeirof oonar faeesoar  ar)- P foteiL  cecf ati of per n-pina           Pribabnrt   ereef-eel   es   c  feslePeritpais  or
ra   erp     fPedpe  a.fltyr ofofod          food,I -  bedd cd  sahn.  As-                 seiiyrae   r  cmoe   s  sa.si,sdtage                          obricns
qeloaesie  or ei ceotete  estblished by DuA proolde f or ni.itit                       peereagas.  cf i ..      al   n   esl   oplne I'         a . .g.at..stP. tel
a1llaeece of 60 gras- of isee1 plrotin pea day end 10 gem7  of sui,l and                      1960, 1970. sod 1979 daa,mes  5  based  s II;'. p-tninacip tei rae
pul:e proceic, of  hbio      grav  should isaia   riin.beesad                                raf1arinrag-eteer.ttore or the  otetn   m  la   ieeed 
anima  trcic as so .. eeg  for . c wrld,  lpreynsd by PAl in cbs Third                    ftoosie Dpaesd-ce  Rtait - ilsaic of porelsaisa ande  15 sAd 65 aid ee
Oerld Pied barnsy; 1961-65, 1970 so  1977 data.                                               sa hab  tctsl  .blao  fires
Pee- oaringt  oni  soel  tr  aiml"sdnu    - P-ensi  eepily of feed ds-
rine  fees anasi     i  ple '   PI it geamepar da.y; i.,li,  1910 sod 1977P.dtn.         IsCO    DItTRIBUTIONp
Child fases 1-41 tmoalt  ian Basler ch-oeedf - Aact,ai deaths ratthouadi                         eieis   fPinn   coaIh                 nrs d LUsd1 .- brit-d hy riohea
age goop 1-u yers, ca obiidcacis thi'S.ag  gr..bP; foe  astdsns1Oyitg  -se-                     5  ete,  isrIipret, te-rsa  itp-esn  st  pnoret Ni p-ete
crie  data derind feos life tehise; 1965, 1970 ard 199 dan.                                     of bhceeh1ds.
HEALTH                                                                                          POVERTY TARGETiAIP
Life Earactety. lenitch fy....f d-rArseags teeh    of ysere  ft life.. rmisiagTh  islsig cenmns artrpppotaamsestperylel.
kesec   ftetns   fscet  frataebol-nca,  eac  sdetre     iS                                 nurtitlysdeiate 1- dit  les  aan ,a ne-fe  reieeeeeiscu
bArt   fptisf_l   rho,fe   eelac  essnbla sosc  iteasrrcn.1s
tesesyppfbeudacr-id actae  atr  or1 t       utresadbt  ncnam."cd                    e itua    aeisrnetrrnLrllb -llt eseinedi                      - asba  and. etteld-
cart  sari,  asthat fron peoIttocd borsholac, spig, d eacisary relief asgrl  esie  ee i                                   nn    ee  isiscrCa.sese  e   mia
otheir sePrecto  rurtlt...         Ic at urban ererehbibe                        peresul Loo_  ef she e..ctrp.  Urban lana  Lc dercvsd fern the ra1
tecin or scatdp-s  l-tsad net sure chat 2OOtaetera fees a honsJnap be                         lers  cih edjlaem_t ftp high. atoert of living in ute  aes
considerda beita aihic  eaoal  aceseIiclo5 . icug   rsaitdPcpne   eo                                                          ait   ost  eaafrliarnj-ubse
ri  otiist  apseddieeprn          sPert of the rep in ftfhics the                         oo"
Arises to facec  Diesaip       rrcn  u   otaat1      tota. uba. aid rel.-
saber ofP"el  hote.    :e,aId retai  asetBd bp  ern    irala
Psec fnsgcs o  thsiaeepacinepeelnan.    nrs    ipslsyis
ti h  linia   sddiepsel. vlsi as citbuctrnsct f base  ascrats                                                                        focoi  ed isi1 rena DIiyisie
aid aste-wna   y 'saan-hats  yeats  or the aes at Pit P7iriae and aimdAett  Aeelyeis ed Pr-f-enbee  DtaPsrt-nt
1st instalieniscc.                                                                                             ca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~My 1991
Poatlttn  s  PhMi;ei.Ri    - Poruletic  dt-ds  bA    b nale       P reelrtien     ehbrei
riseqolifild teaasdtos   heis1  ta uira-ity Isn-I.
Prelaiotta  tireegPeres -  Popultist dirided b5 number at peiatitig



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~An 27 
D     29 DhW7 7
8ATIA920 90AOUTA,                                     1965            7977         2975        IET      C    39  S        1978          3373          ISA9         390Yr6T      - P935J2C77             GSO-7  Tr7-3     990-3 (7p;       oT1
(AAIAoo. 9t 0594,21 . t1977 881043                                                                                                                                                                                                        CApp
CrA.. 22o ,ACI PA4AA                                 8900.7         10^933.1     53T7A.4        64.         T 16T.. 1A6-.1  33673                   I 4079.0  4536.4  15169.6     3792.5            3.9         1.6        5.3            IG.O
GAIT. OoA.' T.r. ot (Oi3T                            S-610.69      IG730.0       -;2456.      1-3279.          0.039 -2335.9           69089         ASAs        1536 027.      \95582              7 47.                7t              0Go
5900A*                                               2360.2         2592.3       2935.4       2A97.7        7706.3       5738.7        ZAS6.S       3594.6         3455.0         3724.7            3.5         2.7        4.4             19.3
3.9793                                               AA34.5         2656.3        29A6.3       3379.6        12A9.5       A4T3.2       ACTS.!        2573.5        76TA.6         29C9.6          -1.7          7.6        2.9             iS.6
889799.. 5=93= ol Tr.d. 2243634                       2700.A         2746.3       2641.5       35A9.4       7129.9        A395.7       3430.0        3450.6        2963.6          3537.6           0.3         AT2        0.5             5.36
3.A2AAEe l0.e  Ter_ AS 09.43 4493204 (~: 3AAA.3   (3A.A             -556.7        ITA4          966.0        575.7       -9A6.6      -0323.2         -44A.C         SO5.7           590.9           0.3 C5  7.1                             2.2
TeAA. 0A93AA29t10e                                   A465.7          9049.0      22303.0      72692.3      35575.2       357A2.5      336I3.9       52743.3       13077.0         30737.3           0.2         3.3        2.7 I9.1
..... .1-2967.2                              1397.9        3025.0       5745.2       2026.7       3756.0        3922.2        2094.3        A904.5         5749.5            0.1       -3.3         9.5              5.0
G3 tA-.SA T 0.A63.                                    3337.5         2152.2  34.6       3U1775.9             0407.2       9542.5       3324.4       824.8          2404.0           562.8          -0.5         23.5       6.2              30.9
p3 99322.6t.T4
-91C99 IAS IA 0012.A3  (1977 - 30).
LATAoRA 9.2cc Sod.,                                     52.9           46.0         A7.2         90.6        392.0         35.7         323.-         I3.4           164.1         123.4
I_rt'9 Pice AOASA                                      44.7           44.3         302.7         35.7        300.0        309.2         233.0         351.0        154.3           205.3
9593= At Tr-eA Sod..                                   03.6           325.0         95.3         94.0        300.0         90.4         326.9         333.9         332.0           3397.7
8A4 er3 S 2930.4. 98o0.o3. 3383 3963.. 935  3)  26.9            38.7         40.3         97.4         s3.9        135.3         224.6         288.7         416.0             7.
067T09  -.49039AA00205795  6.o   9                                                   9889   3            4A9                                       .0987            932                                      3A9  of            cr-t
23 3903 t9708       U62                                                                 1   f             3223             37    223                TAA22           8043 51 OAb  A2. US3                                         938,
1970         930        3930     AIqm                         5973o        C         1393     29801 _    7631o      1_    73 I;                       1      _ 3930       D
2493c2A0494                                               5924.5      3657.8        33.3      22.3        -0.5         2023.9      2248.2        49.0     60.0       3.2           762.6      648.5        36.1      23.4        -3.6
A.od..5o9  3226.7  4732.4  36.5     38.5         3.9           743.3     3037.2        38.4     39.0       5.0         4394.9      4963.2       298.6    206.2          0.8
S A8203.                                                 4094.8       6293.3       24.2       92.2         2.3          3203.2     2358.3        A33A     2 25       0.2          29A2 .0 A- 62.-         033.2     326.3        -0.9
T.. 3......                                               8445.3     32367.3       30.2      390           3.4         2158.6      5033.05      10C.0     00.7       3.0          2332.9    2203.3        100.0    392.0          0.9
-ETL  -.-sM59  lAn*2ST-O                                                                                                                                                    PfOJCT7o
99-  29 0       9                                       3925          1977         195         2976I       1977         2979          1909      333        33E1           TIIr-
0,9,309 8.8389                                              53.2          32.6         15.0         127.2      137.5        54.7         30.0       33.4         20.6         17A
3297392 197.84 2Ao7.                                        52.2          32.1         34.4         34.3        30.9        10.9         32.3       36.2        29.5          25.5
7,99.08 S 72843                                              3.3           2.5         -0.4         -2.4       -5,4        -3.5           5.2        2.2         0.3           3.5
C.938.2849.222A2793                                          7.9           3.7          4.5          2.0        3.5         5.            7 .7       4.7         4.6          4.3
0.8.9r,a2 6.23A   . 393ne    3b 1.0                                        0.5          2.3          5.3        3.3         0.4          -0.3        0.6         0.7           0
7=3 0090388 77tf T-.  C rO.oAA99pA 26-0r         )          1963          1973         36          2907        2973                        A92 02A3   DL2. N  1-8
30,otOoo                                                    30.6          27.9         12.3         33.3       36.3                        780A37333792 9roG3048                          6m512A-
hA4lAI 9.0                                                                 6.3          6.2          2.0        6,0                                                                     393
23 N0-69-56                                                             4.            . 3.2                  3,4
595.0 8AA97.Ac A.9A6c.8                                     3. 2           4.3          9.52         3.2        9.7                       630802A629. 9136999                             3550.2          34.2
920.0.2 0er420.. 3tAc3o467g 238.,,..)                   20.6           42.5         56.8         59.3 1      0,2                        2o2....op, 0,To2.4 *4d 920604                   924.3           3.7
00 onA2                                             5.           53.3         38 3          3.1       2461                         993                                           3688.2          24.2
006.'                                                        3.9           3.7          4.2          3.5S       2,3                       09o.9706 *o6 02970A09 bA                        154rt  367.2    23.0
04`41.36 Local 03` 45Po770                     376             3.
TAA.2 2299.98 88999458.93                                300.0         300.0        550.0        300.0      307.0                            T                                        __f _109__LO.
TOD T 6 L                                33042.2          392.0
333507 49C dEAlT                              3~~~ ~ ~~~~~           ~~~~~ ~~~972  3974  367  3900  3376  5976~       3930        5373        398         508         379          303         33
3365A800. AS Sol.. 78938372198-                                                                   --                                  -                    
ll8,39 304 30.32-97                                          8 9S.3     11C.0       323.6       342.2       266.3        166 5      236.2       120.5       326.1       362.3        686.2       725.9       1705.1
r-84 09=A209A26  7.A7tl  . eo0                               50.0        26.9        49.3        60.3        203.2       339.3      249.3       393.0       365.2       307.7       020.3        333.3        303.5
3.96i 093409 92 7939.29 S 0A29                               79.2        32.5       30S.2       309.3        524.5       13690      367.9       303.8       2231.1      740.9        395.8       242.5        803.8
0o230la 37274800.93  852. 563. 990 0593                      38.7        08.7        3S.7        60.0        00.0        95.0        95.0       760.0       300.0       225.0        725.0       320.0        080.0
0...  .. P3.039 of 000                                       25.0        24.3        22.6        22.0        20.0         25,3        8.69        6.01       54.7        38.6         39.97      21.           23.0
00.33=. A PAlo. lAd., 23 A02.3 31977.100)                  57.5        40.0        53.7                    72.9                   107.0                   353.9                    264.3                    823.2
027*73r 90209 lAd.. 2, 3S2.                                 9. 5       50.9        27.7                    59.5*                   30.0                    57396.7                 0?.5.02
34o6 00.422 86 02623c 927900                               53.0       -3.0         94.2                    68.2                    29.5                    73.8                   -32.9 I6.2
344409.26260 SoSo Vrav*t. A                               27.7         2.5.        73.3                    2.2.                    23.-                    3.31                     03.4                     01.2



f 1 s v I o o o o N r a N * or v r ou c 
22~~~~~+      
hi                                           A                   A      q<<;~>>ofI<
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;fZXoE ee           l~"      
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     w~o     ' f-f@ ~       e   _          o ne
~~~~~vA -   v   o  r   ___  
A          f_N.     
cA1__|___roo_fio>~              
_A.   -oosZ     
C | _                                                                                      A, _____N*         |,-,        



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at September 30, 1981) 1/
---US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                        (less cancellations)
Number     Year           Borrower            Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
27 loans fully disbursed                                      409.2
949       1973    Republic of Peru        Education           24.0         2.7
1196       1976    Republic of Peru        Transport           76.5        39.0
1215       1976    Republic of Peru        Power               35.6         7.4
1281       1976    CENTROMIN               Mining              39.7        13.5
1283       1976    Banco Vivienda          Urban Dev.          21.6        11.2
1358       1977    COFIDE                  Industry            35.0         8.6
1403       1977    Republic of Peru        Agriculture         25.0        22.3
S-ll       1978    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment        8.8         3.1
1771       1980    Republic of Peru        Irrigation          56.0        54.0
1806       1980    Petroleos del Peru    Petroleum Prod.    32.5           30.5
1812       1980    Republic of Peru        Rural Dev.          15.0        14.6
1888       1980    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment        7.5         6.0
S-19       1980    SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.      5.0         5.0
1963       1981    CORPAC                  Aviation            58.0        58.0
1968       1981    COFIDE                  Industry            60.0        60.0
2018       1981    ELECTROPERU             Power               25.0        25.0
Total                                                    934.4
of which has been repaid                               174.5
Total now outstanding                                    759.9
Amount sold                           18.3
of which has been repaid            18.3                 -
Total now held by Bank                                   759.9
Total undisbursed                                                    360.9
1/ Since September the Bank has approved one further loan of US$26.0 million
to COFIDE for a Small Scale Enterprise Project. This loan was presented to
the Board on December 8, 1981. Its signing is expected shortly.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at September 30, 1981) 1/
Type of
Year                Obligor                       Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances   0.3        -       0.3
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks             0.3       -      0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials          0.3       -      0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers           4.1      -       4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.               Cement             2.3     0.2      2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement             1.4     0.2      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.        Mining             15.0      -      15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura        Mining              2.0     0.5      2.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining             2.7      0.5     3.2
1981        Consorcio Energetico de            Power
Huancavelica                    Transmission       8.5       -      8.5
Total gross commitments                             36.9      1.4    38.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            18.2     0.2    18.4
Total net commitments less
participants' portion                              4.0       -      4.0
Total held by IFC                                   14.7      1.2    15.9
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                              9.2       -      9.2
1/ Since September IFC's board has approved one further investment of US$3.0
million in SOGEWIESE S.A. for a Leasing Project.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses in the
project unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution has improved substantially over the past year, and
disbursements now stand at about US$21.3 million.
Loan 1196-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced. Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1281-PE:    CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component was delayed by about two
years because of the lack of local counterpart funds owing to the recession of the
late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceeding with the project with support from
additional Government counterpart funds, as well as a supplementary IDB loan and
commercial bank borrowing to cover inflationary cost increases. Engineering,
procurement and mine development activities on this part of the project are
well-advanced. The mine-water treatment plant has now been completed.
Loan 1283-PE:    Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at US$10.4 million. Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
Loan 1358-PE:    Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of this,
the Borrower -- the National Development Bank (COFIDE) -- agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which
would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this
action and improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the
credit line has increased, and it is now almost fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation systems
are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is now complete and construction has started. The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-11:        Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and engineering for the Lima water system is
now underway in preparation for a project to be considered for Bank financing.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project execution is gaining momentum. The implementation of most of
the Bank-financed components of the project has begun or is in the process of
being started.
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution should improve in the coming months.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Consultants have been contracted and the final feasibility report for
the phosphate fertilizer project is being reviewed.
Loan S-19:        SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans is now
being reviewed.
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; US$58.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effectiveness Date: January 21, 1982; Closing Date;
December 31, 1985.
The conditions of effectiveness are now in the process of being
satisfied. Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
Loan 1968-PE:    Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan of August
19, 1981; Effective Date:                    ; Closing Date:  June
30, 1985.
The conditions of effectiveness are now in the process of being
satisfied.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date:                ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
The conditions of effectiveness are now in the process of being
satisfied. Final design of the Yuncan hydroelectric project, which is being
financed retroactively by this loan, is now underway.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: 9 months
(b) Project prepared by: MTC with Bank assistance
(c) First presentation to the Bank: September 1980
(d) Identification of the project: January 1981
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: March 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: June 1982
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a) that, by January 1, 1984, after exchanging views with the Bank,
MTC would implement a revised salary structure, including revised
grade classifications (para. 48);
(b) that MTC would provide sufficient funds for road maintenance and
repair and that MTC would exchange views with the Bank on any new
road investment not included in the road investment plan, which
might result in expenditures of US$10 million or more during
execution of the proposed project (para. 52);
(c) that, by September 1, 1982, MTC would adopt a four-year road
rehabilitation program agreed with the Bank. This program would be
based on the results of a study carried out under an ongoing
transport project (Loan 1196-PE) and would be reviewed annually
(para. 62);
(d) that MTC would furnish to the Bank a list of spare parts to be
procured prior to placing orders for these spare parts. This list
should be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 67);
(e) that, by September 1, 1982, and annually thereafter, MTC would
provide to the Bank, for comment, an equipment renewal program for
the succeeding year and that sufficient funds would be provided to
implement this program (para. 67);



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) that, starting on July 31, 1982 and every year thereafter, MTC
would provide the Bank, for review and comment, a maintenance
program for the succeeding year. This program would be based on
targets included in a maintenance plan agreed during negotiations
(para. 67);
(g) that, as a condition of loan effectiveness, MTC would hire five
experts to fill key line positions in DGC (para. 68);
(h) that, by December 31, 1982, MTC would adopt a system of weight
control based on the system recommended by consultants to be
financed under the project (para. 68);
(i) that, by October 1, 1982, MTC would develop a road classification
system with responsibilities for road planning, design,
construction and maintenance defined between national, regional and
municipal authorities. This system would be updated annually
thereafter (para. 69);
(j) that MTC would provide sufficient funds, facilities, services and
other resources to its international office to effectively monitor
and coordinate the project (para. 70);
(k) that, in order to facilitate Bank reimbursement of civil works
expenditures, a dollar-denominated special account for the loan
would be established in Banco de la Nacion (para. 75); and
(1) that, by August 31, 1982, MTC would establish a revolving fund in
the Banco de la Nacion under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. This account would be maintained at a level of 2 months
projected expenditures for civil works (para. 75).



