Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3619b-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PERU
January 21, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents       (January 1981)         (October 1981)
A
1 Peruvian Sol             =  US$0.00282         =  US$0.00221
US,$1.00                   -  354 Soles          =  453 Soles
System of Weights and Measures
Metric
1 kilometer (km)                                =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                                     =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg)                                 =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton                                    =  2,205 pounds
1 metric ton-kilometer                          =  0.69 short ton-mile
1 passenger-kilometer                           =  0.62 passenger-mile
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BIT                  -     Basic Network, Red Basica Intermodal de Transportes
CORPAC               -     Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion Comercial
CPV                  -     Compania Peruana de Vapores
CSLCOP               -     Consejo Superior de Licitaciones y Contratos de
Obras Publicas
DGC                  -     Directorate General of Highways
DGCT )-                    Directorate General of Land Transport
DGEE                 -     Directorate General of Special Studies
DGTA                 -     Directorate General of Land Transport
DGWT                 -     Directorate General of Water Transport
ENAFER               -     Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
ENAPU                -     Empresa Nacional de Puertos
ENATRU               -     Empresa Nacional de Transporte Urbano
IDB                  -     Inter-American Development Bank
INP                  -     National Planning Institute
KfW                  -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MDA                  -     Ministry of Aeronautics
MTC                  -     Ministry of Transport and Communications
ORDE                 -     Organismo Regional de Desarrollo
ORDEZA               -     Organismo Regional para el Desarrollo de la Zona Afectada
ORETT                -     Comision Reguladora de Tarifas de Transporte
OSP                  -     Sectoral Planning Office
PC                   -     Peruvian Corporation
PETROPERU            -     State-Owned Petroleum Company
SEZ                  -     Mechanical Equipment Service
SIDERPERU            -     State-Owned Steel Company
vpd                  -     vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PERU
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   .......................1.............
A.    General .............................................
B. Highways ..............                                                        2
C.    Railways  .............                                                      3
D.    Water Transport  .....................................                       4
E. Aviation.  q                                                                    5
F. Coordination and Planning .                                                     5
II.    THE ROAD TRANSPORT INDUSTRY  ..............................                        7
A.    General  .............................................                       7
B.    Regulatory Framework ................................                        7
C.    Tariffs and Costs  ...................................                       8
D.    The Vehicle Fleet  ...................................                       8
E.    Organization of the Industry  ..........                 .............      9
III.    THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR  ..........           .........................             10
A.    The Network .........................................                      10
B.    Highway Administration .............................                       11
C.    Highway Financing and Road User Charges  ....                .........     12
D.    Highway Planning and Engineering  ....................                     13
E.    Highway Construction .............................                         14
F.    Highway Maintenance  ....................15............                    L5
G.    Recent Developments  and Prospects  ...................                     17
IV.    COMPLETED AND ONGOING HIGHWAY PROJECTS  ....... R .. .........                    19
A.    Completed Projects  ..................................                      19
B.    Ongoing Projects  ....................................                     21
V.    THE PROJECT ........ ................              ......................         21
A.    Objectives and General Description ...................                     21
B.    Cost Estimates  .......................................                    24
C.    Financing and Disbursement .............. A ...........                    26
D.    Implementation ..........................                   .......        29
E.   Procurement .................................                               30
F.    Monitoring  ..........................................                     30
G.    Project Risks  ......................................                       31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Peru
during March 1981. The mission comprised Messrs. William Matthey (Highway
Engineer), Bengt Bostrom (Senior Transport Economist), and Alberto Paz
(Transport Economist), G. Morra (Senior Training Specialist), A. Garaud and
A. Mackie (Consultants). The report has been edited by Miss V. R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE ....................          31
A.   Road Rehabilitation ..........................              31
B.   Road Maintenance Program ..........       ................   33
C.   Strengthening of Highway Agencies ......... .........    36
D. Training              ............  37
E.   Economic Evaluation ..............  .. ...............       37
VII.   ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT ......... .....         39
A. General                        ...   39
B.   Selva Central - Regional Development .......... ...          40
C.   Alto Mayo - Regional Development .................   .       43
D.   Economic Evaluation of Road Improvements ..........          45
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION           ..................  45
TABLES
1.1     Central Government Budget for Transport 1977-1981                 48
1.2     Transport Sector Share of GDP - 1970-1979                         49
1.3     Cargo Transport by Mode of Transport          ........            50
2.1     Vehicle Weights and Dimensions       .................            51
2.2     Road Vehicle Fleet 1976-1980                                      52
3.1     Highway Network by Type of Surface      .      ..                 53
3.2     Road User Charges and Expenditures 1976-1981  .54
3.3     MTC Level of Expenditures 1976-1981                               55
'3.4     INP Investment Plan 1981-1985.                                   56
3.5     MTC Equipment Fleet 1978 and 1981       ..57
5.1     Summary of'Road Improvement Costs           .......               58
5.2     List and Cost Estimate of Maintenance Equipment                   59
5.3  Estimated Disbursement Schedule .60
5.4  Implementation Schedule .61
6.1     Projected Expenditures for Road Maintenance .62
6.2     Training Program - Cost Estimate           .........              63
6.3     Traffic on Project Roads 1980 and Traffic Growth                  64
6.4  Vehicle Operating Costs  ..65
6.5     Costs and Benefits for Roads to Be Rehabilitated                  66
7.1     Area and Population of the Selva Central.                         67
7.2     Principal Crops in the Selva Central .68
7.3     Costs and Benefits ...... ..        ................. . .. .      69
7.4     Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests           ...              70



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)      - iii -
Page No.
ANNEXES
1       Other  Transport  Loans   ....................... . ......... .  71
2       Plan of Action .............                                    72
3       Outline Terms of Reference for the Feasibility Study
of the Selva Central   .            .76
4       Maritime Transport Advisory Services - Outline Terms
of Reference .....      ..       ......................      78
5       Internal Auditing and Accounting Procedures .79
6       Project Monitoring Indices .......... 0-0 ..... 0 .......       84
7       Details of Road Sections to be Rehabilitated                    86
8    Training Component.... .88
9       Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File      ....... - ..................--o            90
CHARTS
World Bank 23282 - MTC Organization ..... o............         91
World Bank 23283 - Tentative Organization .o ........ o..      92
MAPS
IBRD 15906 - Peru - Eighth Highway Project
IBRD 15979 - Peru - Eighth Highway Project, Selva Central
Regional Development Area






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2
1.01      Peru, with an area of 1.3 million km , is the fourth largest
country in Latin America. It has a population of almost 18 million. The
Andes, which closely parallel the Pacific coastline of Peru over its entire
length, divide the country into a narrow coastal region (Costa), a mountainous
region (Sierra) and the Amazon basin plains region (Selva). The Costa is the
most populated and economically developed part of the country. Six out of the
ten largest urban centers in Peru are located in the region, including Lima,
the country's capital.
1.02      Peru's topographic, geological and climatic conditions often render
transport extremely difficult. The transport network reflects these diffi-
culties and has shaped the country's development accordingly. Since the
nineteenth century, several isolated railways have been built by private
interests to connect mining areas in the Sierra with coastal ports (para 1.08),
but highways and road transport are the country's basic movers of domestic
freight and passengers. Only highways and, more recently, civil aviation,
have played a role in integrating the country, but the lack of an adequate
road network is still one of the most difficult problems confronting Peru.
1.03      The road transport system in the Costa is broadly adequate.  Here
lies the backbone of the Peruvian roaa network, the 2,700 km long Pan-
American Highway running parallel to the coast (Map IBRD 15906). From this
road, several major secondary roads and two railroads link with large towns
in the Sierra, while a handful of roads, mostly unimproved, lead into the
Selva. Of these, the Bank-financed Trans-Andean Highway from Lima to
Pucallpa constitutes the only all-weather road connecting the three regions
of the country 1/. Expansion and improvement of the transport network,
particularly in the Sierra and Selva, by road, air and river, are necessary
to meet the growing transport requirements and to give access to areas of
the country presently isolated and undeveloped.
1.04      General objectives for the transport sector were formulated in
the 1977-1986 Transport Plan (Plan Director) whose guiding principle was
"the provision of a rational transport system which would contribute to
the socio-economic development of the country." The Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MTC) has since updated this plan, most recently for the
1979-1990 period, and it is generally acceptable to the Bank. Over the past
five years, however, implementation has fallen far short of the plan's original
goals, due in part to economic constraints in Peru and to a relatively low
transport sector budget. The share of transport in public expenditure declined
from 4.9% in 1977 (US$125 million equivalent) to 4.5% in 1981 (US$208 million
equivalent) after a decline in real terms in 1978-1979 (Table 1.1). Given the
importance of transport, these absolute levels are very low.
1/   Paving of the northernmost Trans-Andean route, from Olmos to Tarapoto,
as far as Corral Quemado (196 km), has recently been contracted with
IDB financing.



- 2 -
1.05      Total demand for transport during the same period  has increased
slowly and, in some cases, decreased, which has limited the pressure on the
transport system. Various indicators reflect this development. As one
example, the total road vehicle fleet increased only 9% between 1976 and
1980. Transport demand, reflected in the contribution to GDP (Table 1.2),
increased only from about 4.8% in 1970 to 5.7% in 1979, with no change in the
1976-1979 period. In constant prices, the relative share of air transport
increased, with water transport decreasing, and land transport remaining
constant at about 77% of transport in total GDP. Public passenger transport
during 1976-1980 increased about 4% per year with about 70% by road, 14%
by rail and 16% by air within the country of a total 6,266 million passenger-
kilometers. Private automobile travel virtually stopped growing between
1976 and 1980. The number of cars grew only 1% per year, and the consumption
of gasoline declined. Cargo transport grew somewhat more (Table 1.3), but
mostly by the increased use of large diesel driven trucks, which grew 7% per
year. As a result of the low demand increase, major bottlenecks have not
developed in the transport network until very recently, when they became
evident in two of the ports and on several road sections.
1.06      Meanwhile, a more serious pressure on the transport system has
been growing as a result of neglect of maintenance and a weakening in the
responsible transport institutions, particularly in the highway sector. The
condition of the roadnet has been deteriorating, leading to higher transport
costs, particularly in the Sierra and Selva. MTC's 1981 and 1982 goals, as
well as the 1981-1985 medium-term investment program by the National Planning
Institute (INP), address this issue by increased resources for highway mainte-
nance. The overall program, which is discussed in more detail in Chapter III,
represents a substantial increase in the budget compared to those given in
paragraph 1.04. On the institutional side, the Government is strengthening
MTC (para 3.33) and, at the same time, giving the modal transport agencies
(ENAFER, ENAPU and CORPAC) more independence as state-owned companies. A
question remaining, therefore, is whether MTC can be rapidly reorganized and
strengthened to make effective use of increased investments in the highway
subsector. The challenge for the next few years is to reverse the deteriora-
tion of the highway network with limited budgetary and staff resources.
B.   Highways
1.07      Road transport and highways are dealt with in detail in Chapters II
and III. For the purpose of this general review of the transport sector, it
is sufficient to note that Peru's highway network totals some 58,500 km,
of which only about 6,000 km are paved.  After the heavy emphasis on highway
construction in the mid-1960s, road development has been concentrated on
paving and improving some of the more heavily used roads and slowly extending
the system.  The highway system, except in the Costa, is still, however, in an
early stage of development.  Peru's road density is half that of its neighbors,
Ecuador and Chile, partly because of the large unexplored areas in the Selva
and the high concentration of economic activity in the Costa. The roads
connecting the Costa with the Sierra and the Selva are generally low standard,
the roads in the Sierra are at best passable, and the roads in the eastern
piedmont and in the Selva are rudimentary, mainly dry weather tracks.



-3-
C.   Railways
1.08      Peru has never had a fully integrated railway system.  Several
separate east-west railway lines developed, largely as part of the mining
and export of mineral deposits in the Sierra. These lines still serve
that main objective. In the 1930s, the railway system consisted of about
4,200 km of track; at present, after the closing of several lines (the
latest badly damaged by the 1970 earthquake), the system has been reduced
to a route length of some 2,200 km.
1.09      The Central and Southern Railways are by far the most important
in the country and they have an important role to play in their respective
areas of influence. The Central Railway links the mineral-producing area
of Cerro de Pasco and La Oroya with the port of Callao and, therefore, is
an important supplement to the limited capacity of the Central Highway.
It also hauls some agricultural products from the Sierra to Lima and general
cargo in the opposite direction. It is the highest standard gauge railway
in the world (4,829 m) and one of the most difficult to operate because of
the steep grades (over 4%), the many switchbacks and the sharp curves. The
importance of the railway became obvious when both the highway and the railway
were cut off by landslides early this year. An emergency IDB loan is being
used for repairs to both the highway and the railway.
1.10      The Southern Railway connects the Pacific port of Matarani with
Puno in the Sierra and, by ferry over Lake Titicaca, with Bolivia. From
Puno, another line goes to Cuzco over the main plateau. The grades of the
Southern Railway are not as steep as those of the Central, but they are still
quite severe. The Huancayo-Huancavelica and Cuzco-Santa Ana narrow gauge
lines constitute natural extensions of the Central and Southern Railways
respectively.
1.11      Centromin, a large state-owned mining company, owns and operates
two standard gauge railway lines: Cerro de Pasco-La Oroya (132 km) and
Cahucha-Pachacayo (80 km). Both lines feed traffic to the Central Railway,
supplying it with more than half its total freight tonnage as well as
passengers.
1.12      The Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles del Peru (ENAFER), created
in 1972, owns and operates the Central and Southern Railways following their
purchase from private interests. ENAFER has, since its creation, almost
continuously needed Government subsidies both for renewal of rolling stock
and sometimes to help cover direct operating expenditures. Although there
has been a substantial upgrading of track and rolling stock, particularly
in 1974-1975, large investments are still required for track rehabilitation,
rolling stock and spare parts. An investment plan, mainly for rolling stock,
is now funded by the Government; about US$76 million is programed for this
purpose in 1981-1982, but no new construction is now foreseen.



-4-
D.   Water Transport
1.13      Domestic coastal and river shipping provides about 36% of the
ton-km in the overall movement of cargo traffic in Peru. Coastal shipping
is concentrated in the movement of bulk cargo, particularly crude oil and oil
products and, to a lesser extent, iron ore to supply the state-owned SIDERPERU
steel works at Chimbote. PETROPERU, the state oil company, ships crude oil
from its loading installations at Bayovar, terminal of the North Peruvian
pipeline, to the refineries near Talara and Callao, as well as products,
including natural gas, from Talara mainly to Callao. Domestic river traffic,
although growing, is still only about 2.5% of total traffic; it is fairly
diversified, consisting mainly of dry cargo. As a result of improved economic
conditions since 1979 and trade liberalization, import traffic at the ports of
Matarani and Callao is now causing congestion and ship delays. In the immediate
term, better equipment will be acquired to improve the situation. In the
longer term, the Empresa Nacional de Puertos (ENAPU) is planning expansion of
both ports.
1.14      The extensive river system of the upper Amazon River and its tribu-
taries provides a natural transportation network for the whole of eastern
Peru. The Amazon River within Peru is navigable year round by ships of 20
ft draft up to Iquitos. Further inland, the tributaries provide a network
navigable by vessels of 4 ft draft, for distances of about 8,000 km during
the wet season, five to six months of the year. However, since this system is
oriented toward Brazil and the Atlantic and does not connect with the populated
and developed regions of the country, it has been largely underutilized. The
lack of ports and the general underdevelopment of the region are contributing
factors. It was with the idea of utilizing such an extensive transport
network more fully for the development of the region that the Trans-Andean
transport corridor concept was developed and supported by the Bank. The
corridor is served by the central highway from the coast to the riverport at
Pucallpa on a tributary of the Amazon, and from there, by river, to vast areas
of the Selva.
1.15      The use of coastal shipping is also still limited compared to
its potential. Service and facilities have been directed mostly at petroleum
movements along the dense traffic corridor of the Costa region. The limited
capacity of the coastal fleet, the lack of specialized port facilities and
the inadequacy of port and custom regulations have hampered the expansion of
coastal shipping. Improved coastal shipping services could offer potential
users flexibility similar to that provided by road transport; however, such
flexibility presupposes an integration of the trucking and shipping services
by means of intermodal shipping technology (Ro-Ro, containers) which is not
yet used in Peru. The lack of facilities and equipment at the ports has also
restricted the expanded application of cargo unitization, especially for
inland and coastal transport. Initiated under Loan 1025-PE, a study of higher
density transport along the coast has been carried out by MTC. This study
indicated a larger role for coastal shipping provided labor and institutional
constraints can be overcome. Another determinant factor would be the adequate
pricing of fuel and trucking services (para 2.06). Transfer of freight
traffic to coastal shipping would reduce the need for costly investment to
increase road capacity of the Pan-American Highway. In order for this alter-
native to be practically developed, more work is needed, focusing on



-5-
(a) port, labor and customs regulation; (b) marketing, in particular, coordi-
nation with truckers; and (c) pricing, including user charges applicable to
road freight transport. This is addressed by a study under the project
(para 5.10).
E.   Aviation
1.16      Peru, for reasons of topography, has long relied on air transport
as one of the means of regional integration. As is the case with other
Andean countries, aviation has been particularly useful to overcome the
difficult crossing of high mountain ranges. One of the two main airlines,
Faucett, which is privately owned, was founded as early as 1928 and is,
therefore, one of the oldest in the Americas. The other important carrier,
Aeroperu, was created by the Government in 1973 as the result of a reorgani-
zation of SATCO, the airline element of the Peruvian Air Force, which had
operated since 1960. These two carriers have had about equal shares of the
domestic traffic, with Aeroperu dominating the international traffic. On the
ground, the Governmental Agency, Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion
Comercial (CORPAC), is charged with operating and maintaining airports and
enroute facilities. CORPAC now administers 56 airports, or almost all the
airports for commercial air transport in Peru. About 110 civil aircraft are
registered in Peru, of which about half are used for air taxi and crop-spraying
operations.
1.17      The most important part of the domestic traffic is the movement
of passengers, with air freight significant for high value air cargo and
movement to isolated areas of the country. Passenger traffic at the CORPAC
airports increased from about one million in 1971 to more than 2.0 million in
1979, an average growth of 9% per year. Sustained growth has been aided to a
great extent by the provision of improved and expanded air services. Since
1972, the number of jet aircraft in domestic service has grown from one
three-engine Boeing 727-100 to a total of four such aircraft, three two-engine
BAC-l-ll and three two-engine Fokker F-28 aircraft. The two commercial air-
lines, Aeroperu and Faucett, have both suffered from inadequate airport
infrastructure, which has limited them to aircraft that are costly to operate.
In part, this situation will be alleviated by a recent Bank Loan to CORPAC
(Loan 1963-PE, Annex 1).
F.   Coordination and Planning
1.18      The creation, in 1969, of MTC by grouping the former Ministry
of Development and Public Works with agencies in the various transport modes,
together with the creation of its Sectoral Planning Office (OSP), strengthened
the institutional basis for rational coordination and planning in the transport
sector. MTC has four Directorates through which it directs and controls the
various modes: the Directorate General of Highways (DGC); the Directorate
General of Land Transport (DGCT) responsible for road transport; the Directorate
General of Water Transport (DGWT), responsible for shipping and ports; and the
Directorate General of Air Transport (DGTA), responsible for civil aviation.
Six agencies, including operating companies for railways (ENAFER), shipping
(CPV), ports (ENAPU), airports (CORPAC) and the public transport agency which
serves metropolitan Lima (ENATRU), as well as a Comision Reguladora de Tarifas
de Transporte (previously ORETT), come under the Ministry.



l_.ls     The tariff commission under MTC is responsible for reviewing and
proposing tariff structures for the fixed facilities such as airports (CORPAC)
and ports (ENAPU), as well as the public transport operators such as railways
(ENAFER), the airlines and the various bus and truck companies. In recent
years, ORETT has continuously updated tariffs for most transport modes,
adjusting for inflation. The tariff policy has resulted in incomes sufficient
for almost all of the independent transport agencies to cover their normal
operating costs. The most important exceptions are ENAFER and ENATRU, whose
operating revenues are insufficient to cover adequate replacement programs.
1.20      OSP is responsible for the preparation and formulation of transport
policy and planning, under the general guidelines of, and coordination by,
the National Planning Institute (INP). OSP has prepared the sectoral parts of
the national budgets for the Ministry of Economy and Finance since 1973. More
recently, OSP has embarked on more ambitious planning (started under a UNDP-
financed technical assistance project for transport planning) by producing,
and later updating (para 1.04), the first Ten-Year Draft Transport Master Plan
(Plan Director) 1977-1986, followed by six preliminary regional plans for the
various development regions into which the country is divided.
1.21      The present Government, on taking power in July 1980, rapidly
established a general five-year goal of road rehabilitation and improvement,
mostly of parts of the basic network. A total of 2,800 km are involved over
the 1981-1985 period, with about 550 km identified for immediate urgent
rehabilitation or improvement. A large part of these (433 km) are included
in the present project, while the Government, with its own funds, has started
rehabilitation work on 117 km. In addition, the 1981-1985 plan includes
virtually new construction of some 1,100 km. The present administration is
also committed to improving road maintenance and strengthening the responsible
highway organizations, as described in Chapter III. Of the new roads in the
1981-1985 period, the most important are different stretches of the Marginal
de la Selva. These are, from North to South, upgrading of Olmos-Corral
Quemado-Tarapoto; new roads Juanjui-Pizana, San Alejandro-Puerto Bermudez
and Satipo-Rio Puyemi; and upgrading of Puerto Bermudez-Villa Rica-La
Merced-Satipo. These works are well justified, but the initial level of road
standard needs careful attention in view of the gradual development of traffic
in a newly developed area. Because of this consideration, during negotiatiolns,
it was agreed with the Government that the Bank would be given the opportunity
to review and comment on any major investments (over US$10 million) which are
started in the period.
1.22      In addition to almost US$1.5 billion in 1981-1985 for land transport,
investments of about US$209.8 million for water transport and US$222.6 million
for air transport infrastructure are planned for this period. For water
transport, this amount includes US$68.5 million in ships or ship conversions
for the Compania Peruana de Vapores (CPV). These investments are generally
well justified, but more alternatives for medium-term development in the ports
of Callao and Matarani should be considered. This matter is now under study
by ENAPU.



- 7 -
II. THE ROAD TRANSPORT INDUSTRY
A.   General
2.01      Road transport is the basic carrier for domestic freight traffic.
In 1980, highways carried 80% of all domestic traffic, excluding waterborne
petroleum products (57% if these are considered). During the past five years,
domestic road freight volume has grown at an average annual rate of about 6%,
which is not significantly different from the rate at which total domestic
freight has grown. The share of international freight transported by road is
not very important except for limited traffic to and from Bolivia.
2.02      Road transport services carry 70% of inter-urban passengers and
about 7% of the international passenger traffic. Most of the services operate
along the Pan-American Highway running between Piura, Lima and Pisco. Across
the country, the most important service lines are Lima-La Oroya (center) and
Arequipa-Puno (south). The road transport shares of both freight and passenger
traffic are not expected to show significant changes in the future.
B.   Regulatory Framework
2.03      MTC, through DGCT, regulates and supervises road transport, while
its tariff commission (para 1.19) sets tariff ceilings for road passenger
services, as well as for road freight transport of several commodities, and
recommends taxes and other charges that affect road transport. DGCT also
regulates operating permits and defines the commercial status of operators
(companies, owner-operators, brokers). This regulatory framework has allowed
for adequate competition; capacity has followed the growth of transport
demand. Supply of transport services outside the Costa region is still
constrained by the difficult terrain and the poor condition of the roads.
2.04      Truck overloading is common practice, particularly in the Costa
region, and contributes to rapid deterioration of pavements and higher main-
tenance costs. Vehicle weights and dimensions are properly regulated but the
regulations are not systematically enforced because of inadequate equipment;
the latest limits (Table 2.1) were established by Presidential Decree (Decreto
Supremo No. OOl-81-TC) in 1981 (replacing a decree of 1973) and are adequate.
Allowable weights and dimensions differ between the Costa region and the other
two regions because of different topography-related design standards for roads
and bridges. The above decree establishes fines but does not define responsi-
bilities for enforcement. Up to 1978, this was the responsibility of MTC,
which manned five fixed scales located on three access routes to Lima, in
Arequipa and in Olmos. Until 1976, portable scales were also used. In order
to improve enforcement of axle weight limits, the fixed scales were turned
over to the police (Guardia Civil). Budget constraints have limited their
upkeep, and they have become non-operational. The Government has decided to
resume enforcement of weight limits. The existing weighing stations will be
reactivated and additional control points established, using mobile equipment,
under the proposed project (Chapter V). During negotiations, the Government
confirmed that, not later than December 31, 1982, it would adopt an expanded
program for enforcing improved vehicle weight control.



-8-
C.   Tariffs and Costs
2.05      Tariffs, in recent years, have followed inflation and the real
increases in basic vehicle operating costs. They cover, in general, the
average perceived operating costs. Insurance, maintenance and depreciation
are cost items frequently not considered. As is common, cross-subsidies occur
between urban and inter-urban transport. Tariffs, which differ according to
type of road and regions of the country, are generally adhered to in the Costa
region, but not in the Sierra and Selva regions, where actual rates tend to
be higher than the tariffs. This is explained by the operators' reluctance
to travel on roads in poor condition, to face risks of road closures due to
landslides and often to have to operate with low load factors, considerations
which are not fully reflected in the tariffs.
2.06      Fuel prices have been low in the past but have been increasing steadily.
The price of premium gasoline (95 octane) went to $/. 520 per gallon (slighl:ly
above US$1.13) in September 1981, which was above the FOB export price (oppor-
tunity price) of crude oil plus the refining and commercialization costs. The
price of 84 octane gasoline is slightly below international levels and that
of diesel oil is well below. 1/ The Government has scheduled further steady
increases in these prices over the next year and expects that the average
price of regular gasoline will reach US$1.25/gallon in mid-1982.
2.07      The Government also uses low fuel prices as a tool to reduce the
cost of transport from, and within, the Selva region. Tax levels imposed on
gasoline are about 11% of those applied in other regions and about 30% in t'e
case of diesel. On the average, gasoline and diesel sales prices in the Selva
region are about one-half what they are in the other two regions. The local
impact is significant, while the shortfall in total revenue is small, since
road motor fuel consumed in the Selva is only 4% of the total in Peru; there-
fore, this issue is not considered to be of major importance.
D.   The Vehicle Fleet
2.08      Vehicle fleet data are shown in Table 2.2.  In 1980, there were
close to 500,000 vehicles in Peru, of which 82% were light vehicles, 4% weres
buses and 14% were trucks. Most of the fleet has gasoline-powered engines,
more than half of the total number of vehicles are over seven years old and
two-thirds of all vehicles are concentrated in Lima.
1/   The structure of prices for gasoline and diesel oil (Costa/Sierra prices)
in US$ per gallon in September 1981 was:
Premium Gasoline 84 Oct. Gasoline Diesel Oil
Base Price
(Including Transport)           0.55                0.45            0.30
Taxes                              0.52               0.43            0.21
Sales Margin                       0.06               0.05            0.04
User Price                       1.13               0.93            0.55
International Price /a             1.06               1.00            0.90
/a   Average F.O.B. export price of these products from export refineries in
the Caribbean area.



- 9 -
2.09      Buses in public service predominantly attend the national and
regional demand for passenger traffic. About two-thirds of the units operate
across the country in the central zone and average a seating capacity of 36.
Almost 50% of the buses exceed seven years of age. Buses used on national
service lines are all diesel-powered. Bus service does not always satisfy
the traffic demand adequately, especially in urban areas.
2.10      The truck fleet in Peru has about 70,000 units.  Since 1976, it
grew at an average yearly rate of about 2%. The Government, in the past,
has supported a policy of standardizing the truck fleet by limiting domestic
production of assembled or manufactured trucks to a few makes. Recent opening
of truck imports will introduce a competitive factor and may lower the high
costs of locally produced trucks. About 10% of all trucks are trailers and
semi-trailers. Close to 88% of the fleet, mostly owner-operated small vehicles,
is gasoline-powered, and only about 11% has a load capacity of more than nine
tons. About 60% of the total truck fleet is engaged in public freight trans-
port. Annual average utilization of trucks with over nine tons of carrying
capacity is estimated to be some 60,000 km with load factors ranging between
55% and 60%. Smaller trucks are estimated to have even lower utilization.
Significant variations in annual utilization and average load factors between
regions are to be expected. The spatial distribution of trucks is also
uneven. Lima alone has 42% of the trucks. Demand is met, but there is room
for increased efficiency and reliability.
E.   Organization of the Industry
2.11      The national and regional passenger service industry is basically
organized in bus companies and automobile committees. Large firms in public
transport are relatively better organized than smaller ones. In 1979, there
were 249 different companies. The automobile committees are owners' associa-
tions with about 3,000 units used as intercity taxicabs.
2.12      The truck fleet that provides public freight service is composed
of companies and owner-operators (often organized in cooperatives). Companies
own about 4% of the public transport fleet and supply about 7% of the fleet's
total static capacity, which is estimated to be around 450,000 tons. Most
companies (85%) are concentrated around the principal centers of economic
activity (e.g., Lima, Chiclayo, Trujillo and Arequipa). In 1979, there were
over 200 companies. Owner-operators, both individual and organized into
cooperatives, own about 96% of the trucks and supply about 93% of the total
static capacity. This type of organization is found in both the Costa and
Sierra regions, with a relatively higher concentration in the Costa. Owner-
operators usually search for, and deal directly with, users, which often fails
to provide either efficient use of capacity or satisfactory service. Because
of the atomized market service that owner-operators produce, brokers act to
concentrate freight and negotiate contracts with both users and operators.
2.13      The medium and long term policy of the Government is to foster
the formation and development of large companies for national and regional
passenger and freight services, with more homogeneous, newer, diesel-powered
fleets. Buses should tend toward the 40-seat models, and trucks should tend
to average 30 tons of loading capacity in the Costa region and 15 tons
in the Sierra and Selva regions, in order to minimize transport costs under
the prevailing terrain limitations.



- 10 
III. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Network
3.01      Although highway transport is the main mover of cargo and passengers
in Peru, the highway network is still in an early stage of development
(para 1.07). This is a reflection of the difficult topography and high cost:
of construction in the Sierra and of the largely undeveloped condition of the
Selva. The proportion of paved and gravel roads, in relation to the overall
network, is low. As shown in Table 3.1, the system at present consists of
over 6,000 km of paved roads, 12,500 km of gravel roads and almost 40,000 km of
earth roads and tracks. Highway construction in recent years has been rela--
tively limited. The highway network increased from 42,800 km in 1965 to 50,300
km in 1970, 56,400 km in 1976 and about 58,500 km in 1980 Thus, it is clear
that the rapid expansion in the earlier period, 1965-1976, has slowed down
considerably. Improvement and development of the road network, although
desirable, is constrained by the large resources which would be required.
In consequence, a priority roadnet to serve existing traffic and projected
development needs, named the basic network (Red Basica - BIT), has been
planned as the medium-term target for improvement and development. The BIT,
some of which is not yet constructed, will eventually reach a length of about
13,500 km in the mid 1990s. General upgrading of the whole system can be
regarded only as a long-term objective.
3.02      The highway network is classified into:  (a) interdepartmental or
national; (b) departmental; and (c) feeder roads. However, in the past decade,
the classification has had little real significance since there have been no
corresponding differences in either organizational responsibility or budgetary
provisions. Currently, the national roadnet consists of about 15,000 km,
including almost 4,500 km of paved roads and about 7,000 km of gravel roads.
Departmental roads account for about 12,300 km, of which only 1,100 km are
paved; the remaining 31,000 km are feeder roads and tracks. A third, unrelated
classification of the highway network is used for preparing maintenance
budgets (para 3.25). Once the law creating the Development Corporations and
smaller community organizations is finalized, MTC should define its role, as
well as that of the local organizations, in the planning, engineering and
maintenance of each class of road. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with the Government that, not later than October 1, 1982, it would adopt a
road classification system as the basis for establishing the jurisdiction oE
national, regional and other authorities in regard to road planning, design,
construction and maintenance and would update road classification annually
thereafter.
3.03      Traffic in Peru is concentrated on the paved roads, and on the
Pan-American Highway in particular. On this highway, traffic varies from
6,000 and more vehicles per day (vpd) close to Lima to 2,000-3,000 vpd on many
sections in Central Peru, tapering off to about 1,000 vpd in the extreme North
and South. On the Lima-Pucallpa road, traffic is 3,500 vehicles per day close
to Lima, decreasing to 1,900 vpd entering La Oroya and 500 vpd to the east of
it. Traffic over 1,000 vpd is exceptional on most roads in the Selva and
Sierra, where even main roads carry only 200-500 vpd. Over the next decade,
this general distribution of traffic flows is not expected to change signifi-
cantly, so that the largest portion of vehicle-km will remain on roads which
have already been constructed, and usually, to some extent, improved.



- 11 -
3.04      Upon taking power, the present Government demonstrated its strong
commitment to a vigorous policy of improving road infrastructure. Besides an
ambitious program of road improvement concerning, in particular, the sections
of the Marginal de la Selva road (para 1.21), the present administration is
also committed to reestablishing effective road maintenance, rehabilitating
or reconstructing damaged roads and strengthening highway administration.
B.   Highway Administration
3.05      Planning, construction and maintenance of the entire network has,
until recently, been solely the responsibility of MTC. During the past
decade, the need to decentralize MTC's operations led to a series of organiza-
tional changes which, in general, have not been fully effective. A reorganiza-
tion in 1973 created a General Directorate of Land Transport (DGTT) responsible
for road and rail transport, including regulation and supervision of road
operations and urban transport, while also creating seven regions (by 1978
increased to 13) reporting directly to the Vice Minister, responsible for all
MTC operations, of which road maintenance and construction were only a part.
This action lessened attention to road infrastructure, and maintenance in
particular, by both the regional and subordinate departmental engineering staff.
3.06      At about the same time, a new form of more autonomous regional
organization was developed to manage reconstruction following the 1970 earth-
quake in the Huaraz Valley. This new organization, known as an Organismo de
Desarrollo (ORDE), was made responsible for all Government functions in its
area. The relative success of this first ORDE led to its perpetuation in
1978, with a larger area of responsibility. This was followed, in the 1978-
1980 period, by the creation of 11 more such entities which absorbed eight MTC
regions (16 departments), leaving five regions (eight departments) reporting
directly to MTC. Decentralization, however, was incomplete, lacking clear
definition concerning the inter-relation of the ORDEs and MTC. Thus MTC,
at the time that the present Government was elected, retained responsibility
for most major road construction, but for construction by force account and
maintenance in only five regions.
3.07      Inadequate internal management has also adversely affected MTC's
performance in the highway field. The most serious problems, which are more
fully discussed in other sections of this chapter, are:
-    insufficient focus on road infrastructure, both by MTC and
the regional offices;
-    failure to adequately integrate soils and geotechnical
expertise with highway engineering;
-    insufficient authority of the chief of road maintenance
(vis-a-vis regional director); and
-    lack of effective integration of MTC's mechanical equipment
service (SEM) in regional operations.



- 12 -
3.08      In recent years, MTC has been further weakened by numerous losses
of engineers at all levels, both to the private sector, as a result of low
salaries, and to other Government positions, within and outside the Ministry,
offering better career possibilities. In addition, retirement has taken a
toll of senior staff, while the MTC organization has failed to develop
younger, sufficiently experienced highway engineers. The present staffing
of 116 engineers and less than 100 technicians, working directly in highway
infrastructure-related assignments both in MTC and the ORDEs, is grossly
inadequate for managing the highway construction, rehabilitation and mainte-
nance programs which are presently being prepared by the Government. Recently
initiated measures to strengthen MTC are discussed at the end of this chapter.
C.   Highway Financing and Road User Charges
3.09      Highway expenditures are financed mainly from the general budget.
Direct revenues amount to about 25% of MTC's expenditures for the highway
sector, of which Peru's system of road toll collection on main roads provided
almost 50%, or S/. 1,845 million (US$6.6 million), of a total of S/. 3,986
million (US$14.2 million) in 1980. The remainder is mainly income from
various licenses and rental of equipment outside MTC.
3.10      Most highway financing is obtained from the Ministry of Economy
and Finance and from external sources. Road user-related fiscal revenues
in total, however, have exceeded total highway expenditures since 1968. The
major source, i.e., import duties and motor fuel taxes, represented 26% and
62% respectively of road user income to the Government in 1980, when about
S/. 50 billion (US$178 million) were collected and expenditures accounted
for some SI. 32.2 billion (US$114.9 million) (Tables 3.2 and 3.3). The total
budget for MTC that year was about S/. 35 billion, including works financed by
foreign loans.  The new Government's program (para 1.21) has put considerable
emphasis on rehabilitation of the existing highway network and road construc-
tion along the eastern piedmont (Ceja de Selva). These efforts are going to
need substantial external financing, although road user contributions to
the Government will meet most, if not all, of the Government's counterpart
requirements.
3.11      Because of the slowdown of the economy, the total road user charge
revenues have dropped in real terms between 1976 and 1980 from S/. 55 billion
to SI. 50 billion (purchasing power of 1980). This trend is not likely to
continue as the economy recovers and the Government continues its policy
of regularly increasing the price of fuels.  As indicated in Table 3.4, there
will be a requirement for local funds for investment of about US$665 million,
or US$113 million average per year, over the period 1981-1985. This sum
is in addition to S/. 5,872 million in 1981 (US$17 million) required for
MTC overhead and wage expenditures, and clearly lower than the SI. 50 billion
(US$178 million) collected in 1980 and anticipated increases in total revenues,
indicated above.
3.12      Budget allocations for road maintenance have been about US$300 per.
km or even lower for several years in the 1970s. This figure has improved
in the last'two years to about US$600 per km but a substantial backlog of
deferred maintenance has accumulated. The maintenance budgets requested



- 13 -
by MTC have been intended only for financing emergency work and routine main-
tenance, without including periodic maintenance, for which MTC has lacked
capacity and, in addition, have been based on fully maintaining only a
priority portion of the roadnet (para 3.25). Clearly, substantial increases
in maintenance budgets are required to reach the goal of improved maintenance.
However, substantial improvements in maintenance would also result from
improved control over how maintenance funds are used. Measures to strengthen
highway administration (para 5.07) and increase maintenance equipment avail-
ability (para 5.06) are included in the proposed project.
D.   Highway Planning and Engineering
3.13       The road component of the 1979-1990 Transport Plan (para 1.04) gave
increased priority to highway maintenance and to improvement of major roads.
An updated investment plan (1981-1985), reflecting the new Government's aims
(para 1.21), is summarized in Table 3.4.
3.14       OSP is responsible for keeping the Transport Plan up to date
(para 1.20); it coordinates its activities with those of INP, which approves
budget programs since external financing is an important factor in planning
investments. Rightly convinced of the need to set investment priorities on the
basis of adequate technical and economic studies, MTC has, in recent years,
created a separate office, Estudios Economicos (OEE), for preparing or
supervising preparation of feasibility studies. OEE has performed well but
has not been fully integrated with MTC's traditional directorates, especially
DGC, which prepares highway investment programs and related budget estimates
for submission to OSP.
3.15       The current weaknesses in the planning process are:  (a) lack
of coordination between various departments in MTC (OEE, DGC, OSP) and INP
(Central Planning Office); and (b) unrealistic cost estimating and scheduling.
Technical assistance (para 5.10) is proposed under the project to strengthen
MTC's planning capability.
3.16       Highway engineering is the responsibility of the engineering direc-
torate of DGC, which treats road engineering primarily as a geometric problem,
and which lacks the tradition and background of integrating geotechnical,
soils, materials and drainage considerations with route location and design.
A separate General Directorate of Special Studies (DGEE) is responsible
for these latter aspects as support staff, providing services only on demand,
since it lacks its own operating budgets. Although major design work is
generally contracted to consultants, fees negotiated by DGC are too low
to reflect the work needed to execute soils investigations adequately. DGEE
is insufficiently involved in design budget preparation and reviewing of
detailed engineering. As a result of this fragmented internal organization
and lack of awareness of MTC, Peru is about two decades behind the times in
proper utilization of engineering, soils, materials and geological expertise,
and has no systematic program of research and development aimed at road
problems. The result is, all too often, substantial quantity and cost in-
creases during construction, and delays while additional design engineering



- 14 -
must be performed by construction supervisors. During preparation of the
proposed project, special attention has been given to studies of unstable
slope conditions and drainage problems.
E.   Highway Construction
3.17      Highway construction is the responsibility of the Construction
Directorate.  Major projects are, by law, subject to public bidding by
contractors although, recently, some penetration roads (such as San
Alejandro-Puerto Bermudez) have been undertaken by force account, utilizing
contractor equipment and personnel.  Supervision of construction is performed
mostly by consultants, with ministry staff supervising a few small projects,
such as isolated bridges.  In recent years, the ORDEs (para 3.06) have also
undertaken a limited amount of road construction, both by contract and by
administration.
3.18      An excess of 600 contractors are registered with the Consejo
Superior de Licitaciones y Contratos de Obras Publicas (CSLCOP). Of these,
about 25 form a core of larger companies, and about one-half of them have
capable, well structured management and resources. The next tier consists
of about 50 medium-sized companies, which are struggling to grow by acquiring
work as fast as they can, and are, therefore, potential sources of contrac-
tual difficulties. The balance comprises small companies, usually run by one
professional (engineer or architect); they generally operate within their
limitations. The main problem which the domestic industry faces is the
availability of trained, skilled workers and of professionals. The deep
recession of the late 1970s, which had an accentuated effect on construct-lon,
caused skilled workers to emigrate or to find other employment; a large
number of engineers also emigrated. SENCICO, the industry's own training
institution for development of skilled workers and foremen, is beginning
to set up training programs. Much of the contractors' equipment is old,
but, with the prospect of the Government's large road program, significant
re-equipping is taking place, supported by commercial credit and lease lines
available to the industry. Peruvian contractors should be capable of
catering for up to 70% of the demand for periodic maintenance, improvement
and new construction work, which MTC is expected to put out to tender over
the next few years. The balance should be made up by foreign contractors.
Provisions in the present budget law allow exemption for Bank-financed projects
from the requirements for mandatory joint ventures for foreign contractors.
The Government plans to continue to seek such provisions in the future.
3.19      The performance of the local contractors is adequate in quality,
but delays in completion frequently arise, primarily due to inadequate rock-
crushing capacity and insufficient advance planning. Work by MTC force
account is generally less satisfactory because of the lack of crushing or
gravel processing capability and the lack of proper engineering preparation.



- 15-
3.20      Since the present government took over, it reinstated Cooperacion
Popular, a system for communal organization for infrastructure development,
mostly by labor-intensive methods. Cooperacion Popular has started work
on rural feeder roads and on access roads for province capitals which are
not linked to the national grid. The organization of Cooperacion Popular
and its lines of communication and authority are being set up and would
expectedly emerge as an established channel for carrying out rural works
on particular roads under programs undertaken by the regional authorities.
The proposed project would include a study of appropriate arrangements to
fund regional rural road programs.
3.21      Construction supervision by consultants has proved generally satis-
factory with regard to quality control, but is hampered by insufficient
detailed engineering, requiring field redesign for which the supervisors
are inadequately staffed.
3.22      Delays in project execution are aggravated by cumbersome administra-
tive procedures within MTC and by Government contracting regulations outside
MTC's direct control. Delays in expropriation of property and in obtaining
approvals for design revisions have frequently held up roadworks, while the
process of justifying increases in work quantities beyond stipulated limits,
which are unrealistic for highway projects, involves approval from the Con-
traloria General de la Republica (Annex 5) (external to MTC). These factors
have contributed substantially to delays on past Bank-financed projects.
There is need for a thorough review of regulations governing construction
contracts and for greater MTC input regarding conditions suitable for roadworks.
The Plan of Action (para 5.07) provides that, not later than September 30,
1982, MTC would prepare, for discussion with the Bank and within the Government,
specific recommendations concerning improvements in procedures for road
construction tendering and administration.
F.   Highway Maintenance
3.23      Highway maintenance has been the responsibility of MTC's regional
directorates, some of which have recently come under the authority of ORDEs
(para 3.06). These regional organizations have had considerable independence
in administering their maintenance programs. The Central Maintenance Division,
until recently an office of road operations under DGTT, has handled general
planning and budget allocations and has provided technical assistance and
guidance to the regions. A separate Mechanical Equipment Service (SEM) of MTC
is responsible for providing, repairing and operating all equipment within MTC
both for construction and maintenance.
3.24      Road maintenance requirements are subject to sharp differences
in Peru's three zones - the Costa, the Sierra and the Selva - because of
the differences in materials, topography, geology and climate. Emergencies
occasioned by landslides, landslips and mudflows, triggered by rainfall and
earthquakes, are common, and are, in some cases, annual phenomena in the
Sierra and higher Selva areas. Washouts by fast flowing rivers debouching
from their mountain ravines, or temporarily trapped as the result of land-
slides, affect all three zones. To a greater extent than in most countries,
therefore, emergency repairs figure as the top priority and have diverted



- 16 -
resources and attention from routine and periodic maintenance activities.
For many years, budget allocations for maintenance have been insufficient
(para 3.12) to meet emergency and routine maintenance needs, with almost
complete neglect of periodic resealing and regraveling. Utilization of
resources available for maintenance work has been inefficient; the Central
Maintenance office has had insufficient authority and staff to exercise
any control over how maintenance funds were really spent.
3.25       Consultants for road maintenance management (1973-1977), financed
under a Bank loan (Loan 706-PE), recommended a four-year program of manage-
ment improvements, training and equipment purchases to increase MTC's capa--
bility for executing routine and emergency maintenance, while contracting
an extensive program of road rehabilitation. To remain within practical
budget limits, the program retained the MTC maintenance classification of
a priority roadnet (about 23,000 km) on which full routine maintenance would
be scheduled, while the remaining roads would receive only essential repairs.
MTC accepted the recommendations, and its Central Maintenance office has since
made regular efforts to introduce the system. However, the deterioration of
the network has not been checked because of a combination of insufficient
resources, lack of commitment and training in the regions and low availability
of equipment.
3.26      A major impediment to road maintenance has been the inadequate
operations of SEM, which is responsible for renting the equipment to the
regions. Among its deficiencies are: (a) fleet composition unsuited to
maintenance needs; (b) equipment in poor condition; (c) deficient repair shop
facilities; (d) parts and supplies inventories far below acceptable minimum
levels; (e) personnel, particularly mechanics and operators, undertrained
for their jobs; (f) poor management, including analysis of user workloads,
replacement criteria, fleet administration and cost, accounting and rental
procedures; and (g) non-integration of SEM's regional operations with those
of its equipment users.
3.27      Under the ongoing Lima-Amazon Corridor project, the Government agreed
to several measures aimed at improving SEM operations including procurement: of
equipment, recommended by the maintenance consultants (para 3.25), and tech-
nical assistance, to assist with overhaul of the existing fleet, preparation
of a training program and revisions to the equipment rental systems. Short-
sighted MTC management and lack of priority accorded to obtaining external
technical assistance led to a long delay in engaging consultants to SEM.
Meanwhile, equipment procurement by MTC/SEM favored construction-type equip-
ment, suitable also for emergency maintenance, but did not provide needed
routine maintenance-type equipment.
3.28       Charging for the use of equipment was introduced at the time SEM
was established in 1969. Although the principle of renting equipment to
all users (public and private) was sound, the system has never operated
effectively because of: (a) insufficient equipment; (b) lack of experienced
management; and (c) inherent difficulties in making a commercial system
fit into a context determined by Government regulations and procedures.
Various attempts by MTC/SEM to improve performance were not fully effective.
Assuring SEM of sufficient funds, available on a timely basis, which were
needed to support operations both in Lima and in the regions, proved to



- 17 -
be a dominant problem. For a time, SEM automatically received a fixed per-
centage of all maintenance budgets, which led to complaints that the regional
users were paying for equipment which SEM was unable to furnish. This arrange-
ment was changed to a rental charge based on actual use and SEM experienced
difficulty in collecting on time from regional users. SEM also experienced
long delays in obtaining approval to adjust its schedule of charges. SEM
could not operate as a self-supporting equipment rental organization without
a well managed system of programing and funding road maintenance and force
account works and defining related equipment requirements.
3.29      The 1978 economic crisis also sharply affected equipment mainte-
nance. SEM, dependent on reduced revenue to meet its costs, discharged a
large number of its mechanics. Spare parts purchases dwindled, and operating
units were increasingly repaired by cannibalizing broken-down units. At
the time of reformulation of the Lima-Amazon Corridor project, it was clear
that equipment overhaul was a vital priority if effective maintenance was
to be reinstituted. The present MTC management is in the process of a review
of the revised functions and responsibilities of SEM.
3.30      The present inventory of SEM's fleet includes 2,521 units, of
which 984 are working, 985 are under repair and 552 can only be scrapped.
The overall statistics and comparison between the positions in 1978 and
March 1981 are shown in Table 3.5. The important differences are the reduc-
tion in the number of scrap units in the fleet from 1,418 units to 552 units
and the change in the mix of the fleet to a bias toward heavy construction
units as a result of a procurement program costing US$27 million, financed by
various agencies. The present fleet mix is more suited to a program of 70%
construction, 30% maintenance work, and it will take some years before any
replacement program could affect a significant change in the mix as the older
heavy construction units are scrapped and replaced by maintenance units.
G.   Recent Developments and Prospects
3.31      Loan 1196-PE was reformulated in March 1979 to support (a) stop-gap
measures to halt the deterioration of maintenance capability and (b) the
preparation of a comprehensive rehabilitation program. The stopgap measures
were directed at improving the capacity of the equipment fleet and workshops
through purchase of spare parts and initiation of a program of equipment
overhaul and scrapping. A condition for disbursing on spare parts purchases
was that SEM engage the technical assistance (para 3.27). In the framework of
the reformulation, the Government undertook to increase highway maintenance
allocation and has actually provided substantially more than agreed, as
follows:
Maintenance allocation (US$ equiv.)
1979     1980      1981
Planned                    19.6      21.2     23.0
Actual (budget)            22.4      33.8      38.4



- 18 -
3.32      The technical assistance to SEM, which is also assisting in
preparing a program for equipment renewal and establishing adequate stocks
of spare parts, started in September 1980, with the overhaul program as
its first priority. However, engaging consulting services to prepare
the road rehabilitation program was further delayed by the change in MTC"s
management and is starting a year later. Since these studies would not be
available before mid-1982, a first tranche of rehabilitation subprojects of
obvious priority was identified and is included under the proposed project.
The proposed project would also provide additional spare parts and services
for an accelerated and expanded equipment overhaul program.
3.33      The ambitious construction program and the urgent need for rapid
advance in maintenance and rehabilitation is above the capacity of MTC as
presently organized and staffed. The new MTC management quickly recognized
the current inadequacies, as well as the underlying salary and career prospect
problems, and initiated remedial measures:
(a)  Reorganization of DGTT (it has been renamed the General Directorate
of Highways, DGC) and its field offices was approved by the legis-
lature in May 1981. Although all the details of the new organiza-
tion have not been finalized, the underlying concepts are:
(i) separation of highway infrastructure responsibility from
matters related to traffic and transport services (public
transport licensing, vehicle registration, accident monitoring
and prevention, and trucking and railway regulations);
(ii) separation, in the field, of road maintenance from all other
activities; and
(iii)  responsibility for both operation and maintenance of equipment
to rest under a single head at field Departmental level, with
the central equipment service responsible for major repairs,
workshop procedures, equipment fleet planning and support
services.
(b)  Employment of Consultants for all project type work, including
preparation of designs, construction supervision and management
of force account works.
(c)  Reorientation of the Departmental (field) organization exclusively
toward road maintenance and equipment management.
(d)  Integrating equipment management by making it the responsibility
of the equipment users (Departments).
3.34      MTC's management is also aware that, in order to attract high-caliber
professionals, it will need to offer better salaries. This problem can, how-
ever, be resolved only in the medium term within the more general context of
conditions of Government service. In the short term, MTC has transitional
authority, under the reorganizational law, to establish special conditions
of service and pay for engineering and technical staff. The proposed project



- 19 -
would include contracting the services of individual consultants (para 5.07)
in order to strengthen DGC's management and also to provide on-the-job
training to junior engineers who would be recruited by MTC. The Plan of
Action (para 5.07) provides that, not later than June 30, 1983, MTC would, to
the extent permissible by law, propose adequate personnel grade classifications
and salary levels for permanent staff in DGC and SEM. During negotiations,
the Government agreed that such classifications and salary levels would be
introduced by January 1, 1984.
3.35      Road maintenance efforts by MTC need vigorous and rapid improvement
and expansion. A three-year road maintenance program (1982-1984) with specific
physical and institutional targets and estimated funding requirements, includ-
ing the start of contracted periodic maintenance in 1982, would be adopted by
MTC (Chapter VI). The proposed project would support this program by providing
financing for: (a) training; (b) spare parts and services for accelerated
overhaul of broken-down equipment; (c) workshop improvements and equipment;
(d) urgently needed light routine maintenance equipment; and (e) engineers
(individuals or a consulting firm) to reinforce maintenance management.
3.36      Two pending matters, which would have an important impact on imple-
menting the proposed program, remain to be resolved. First, the legislation
which would establish the Corporaciones de Desarrollo in each political
department, and which would define their organization and functions, is still
being prepared by the Government. This legislation would clarify the role
and participation of departmental and municipal authorities in road matters,
as well as the role foreseen for MTC in providing assistance and support.
Second, the internal reorganization of the highway organization DCG, within
MTC, has not been completely defined. In particular, the proposals for
management of equipment operation and repair, as well as for planning and
controlling the use of maintenance resources, are incomplete. In 1982, the
existing semi-independent ORDEs would continue to exist, although MTC would
have control of the entire national road maintenance budget and therefore
would, in practice, control road maintenance staff even in the areas under
ORDE's jurisdiction. Since MTC's maintenance efforts would initially focus on
the more important roads in the network (para 6.07), the lack of full defini-
tion on these points should not delay introducing basic improvements in both
management and organization.
IV. COMPLETED AND ONGOING HIGHWAY PROJECTS
4.01      The Bank has made a total of 13 loans to Peru in the transport
sector, with an effective lending of US$277.3 million if a canceled US$15
million railway loan is excluded. Of these loans, four were for port opera-
tions, two for railways (one of which was canceled), five for highways, one
for ports and highways combined and one for aviation (Annex 1).
A.   Completed Projects
4.02      Two highway loans were made with road maintenance as their objective
(Loan 127-PE, US$5 million, 1955, and Loan 300-PE, US$10 million, 1961).
Although the first road maintenance project ran into several difficulties,



- 20 -
the maintenance effort was continued and expanded with considerable success
under the second maintenance project. The projects were completed in 1959
and 1966.
4.03      Three highway loans have helped to reconstruct and improve the
La Oroya-Pucallpa road. The first (Loan 271-PE, US$5.5 million, 1960)
helped to finance construction and paving of about 166 km of the Aguaytia-
Pucallpa road, the most eastern section of the 800-km central road linking
Lima with Pucallpa on the upper Amazon River system. Because of difficult
soils and climatic conditions, lack of experience, and inadequate engineering
preparation, the road was only 80% completed when loan funds were exhausted
in 1976; at that time, the Government was unable to raise funds to continue
the works. Subsequently, extensive failures occurred in the Aguaytia-Neshuya
section, which were later corrected by MTC. This section was included for
upgrading under Loan 1196-PE, but was withdrawn when the project was reformu-
lated in 1979. The second (Loan 425-PE, US$33 million, 1965) was for the
La Oroya-Aguaytia section. In November 1969, the Government and the Bank
agreed, after large cost overruns had occurred, partly due to inadequate
engineering, to reduce the scope of the project to match the available funds;
consequently, the remaining works were postponed to a second phase. The
scaled-down project was completed in January 1973, 18 months after the original
Closing Date (see PPAR 76-292, April 23, 1976). The third La Oroya-Pucallpa
loan (Loan 1025-PE, US$26 million, July 1974) financed the remaining works
(second phase) in the most critical part of the La Oroya-Aguaytia section,
i.e., the 219-km Huanuco-Aguaytia section. Because of initial delays and
substantial cost increases, the scope of the project was reduced in February
1978. The project as executed provided for paving of the entire section,
except for about 55 km of road in highly unstable terrain, which was deferred
until further geotechnical studies included in the project were carried out.
It also included the purchase of a portion of the maintenance equipment
required for the Lima-Pucallpa road. In addition, 200 km of feeder roads co
be improved and two transport-related studies were included in the project.
Construction was completed in early 1981.
4.04      In addition to the highway loans for the La Oroya-Pucallpa road,
a road project (Loan 706-PE, US$30 million, September 1970) was quickly
approved by the Bank in order to help reconstruct the access roads to, and
within, the Callejon de Huaylas, an area struck by a violent earthquake in
May 1970. The loan financed the necessary studies and subsequent construc-
tion of roads. The executing agency in this case was not MTC but ORDEZA,
an autonomous agency charged with the reconstruction work. The project had
only been identified at the time the loan was made, and a preliminary study
of alternative routes for the access road, a feasibility study, and detailed
engineering still had to be carried out. Although the Bank acted rapidly to
approve the loan, the time required for the studies was underestimated at
the time of appraisal, and a number of difficulties developed with the con-
sultants engaged to prepare them; the rate of disbursement, therefore, was
slower than forecast. Once the preparation was completed, however, construc-
tion under ORDEZA proceeded satisfactorily until 1976 when lack of local funds
for cost overruns slowed progress. The project was completed in 1977 (see
PPAR No. 3080, July 25, 1980).



- 21 -
B.   Ongoing Projects
4.05      Loan 1196-PE (US$76.5 million) of May 1976 financed a combined
highway and riverport project for the Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor. It
initially consisted of a further stage in the development and upgrading of
this corridor, including completion of construction, improvement and paving of
the 240 km La Oroya-Huanuco section; construction and improvement of about 110
km of feeder roads leading into the corridor; and construction of port facili-
ties in the river ports of Pucallpa and Yurimaguas, expansion of the port of
Iquitos and purchase of cargo-handling equipment for the three ports. Several
transport studies were also included. Progress of the port component has been
slow. Contracting of road works was exceedingly slow, delayed in part because
or uncompleted road contracts under Loan 1025-PE and because of MTC's limited
implementation capacity. However, all contracts except those for feeder roads
have now been awarded. A reformulation of the projecL was agreed in 1979,
concentrating on its most urgently needed components, while increasing road
maintenance support and eliminating improvement of the lowest priority road
section, which could not be completed within a reasonable time. All works are
now under way and should be completed in 1983.
4.06      The reformulation of Loan 1196-PE started the reorientation of plan-
ning toward highway rehabilitation and maintenance. Engaging the necessary
consultants, however, has taken time, the delay, in part, attributable to
MTC's new management taking stock of the situation, reviewing and finally
endorsing the objectives of the studies and the technical assistance. Consul-
tants for the comprehensive study of rehabilitation priorities, under Loan
1196-PE, started their work in October 1981.
V. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and General Description
5.01      The importance to Peru's development of improved highway access
to its inland regions (para 3.01) and the urgent requirement for repair
and rehabilitation of the existing road network make the definition of
program for both these activities the crux of the comprehensive strategy
needed for improving highway infrastructure. The new Government, elected
in 1980, campaigned heavily on promises to vigorously expand and improve
the road network and is accordingly undertaking a very extensive five-year
road program (para 1.21). The Bank's role in the continued development
of Peru's transport sector is that of encouraging a suitable balance between
economically sound investments in rehabilitation, maintenance and construction
to support national development.
5.02      The pressing request from the President and the Government to expand
and accelerate Bank financing for roads has led to plans for two successive
projects so that, while preparation of a subsequent proposed highway main-
tenance and rehabilitation project continues, this first project of highway
rehabilitation and improvement can be initiated. Studies for such a followup
project would be completed in 1982, by which time organizational changes which
are being introduced by the new Government would also be defined. Institu-
tional improvement within MTC, its maintenance service, and its equipment



- 22 -
management would be pursued actively through continued dialogue with the
Government. More efficient use of the private sector's growing capacity in
engineering and construction, and of international assistance in updating
highway technology and management would also be encouraged.
5.03      The proposed project would support:  (a) a first tranche of road
rehabilitation; (b) measures to increase maintenance equipment availability;
(c) strengthening of highway administration; (d) road improvements needed
for regional development; and (e) assistance to the transport sector. Partls
(a) and (b) represent only a prelude to further, urgently needed action
pending completion of more comprehensive programs (para 5.02). More speci-
fically, the proposed project would include:
(I)  Road Rehabilitation (195 km)
5.04      Civil works, detailed engineering and supervision of construction for
a part of the first tranche of road rehabilitation comprising three paved road
sections, namely:
(i)  Morococha-La Oroya road (44 km), part of the Central Highway;
(ii)  Talara-Cancas road (98 km), near the northern end of the
Pan-American Highway; and
(iii)  Piura-Paita road (53 km), connecting the major cotton center
of Piura to the port of Paita.
Improvement standards and costs are given in Table 5.1 and a description of
the road sections is in Chapter VI.
5.05      Consultant services for detailed engineering of a second tranche of
road rehabilitation works and a pilot geotechnical project (to introduce state-
of-the-art slide stabilization techniques), with construction expected to start
in 1983. The scope and location of these projects would be established by the
ongoing rehabilitation study.
(II) Improving Maintenance Equipment Availability
5.06      The proposed project would include acquisition of spare parts,
contracted services and workshop improvements to expand and accelerate equip-
ment rehabilitation (para 6.11) as well as procurement of some light equipment
needed for routine maintenance (Table 5.2).
(III) Strengthening of Highway Administration
5.07      Steps needed to strengthen: (a) highway administration; (b) MTC's
capacity to implement the project; and (c) road maintenance and equipment
management are given in a Plan of Action (Annex 2), which was discussed
and agreed with the Government during negotiations. In support of this Plan,
the project would include:



- 23 -
(i) contracting of about 17 consultants, to serve as in-line and advisory
MTC staff for periods of one-and-a-half to two years (para 6.14);
(ii) implementing a training program for SEM and DGC operational
staff (para 6.15); and
(iii) installation of an improved vehicle weight control system
including technical assistance services and equipment.
(IV) Road Improvements in Support of Regional Development (400 km)
5.08      Civil works, detailed engineering and supervision of construction are
included to improve the main roads serving two important and developing regions:
(a) part of the Selva Central area, whose potential for development was established
in a study financed under Loan 1196-PE, and (b) the Rio-Mayo area, containing the
Alto Mayo agricultural development project for which FAO/IBRD support is being
developed (Chapter VII). The road sections which would be improved are:
(a) Selva Central Area
(i) Tarma-San Ramon-La Merced (53 km of the 72 km total length);
(ii)  La Merced-Villa Rica (56 km);
(iii) Chanchamayo Bridge to Satipo (110 km); and
(iv) Access to Oxapampa (about 44 km).
(b) The Rio Mayo Area
(v)  Rioja-Moyobamba-Tarapoto (137 km).
Improvement standards and costs are given in Table 5.1, and a description of
the road sections is in Chapter VII. Cofinancing is being sought for the
access road to Oxapampa.
5.09      The project would also include (a) the preparation of a detailed
regional agricultural development program, including feeder road require-
ments, for the Selva Central area served by the project roads (Annex 3); and
(b) engineering studies and detailed engineering, respectively, for the road
to Oxapampa (Selva Central) and the Rioja to Corral Quemado road improvement.
The latter would complete an improved connection of the Mayo River area with
the coast.
(V) Transport Sector Studies and Assistance
5.10      The project would include (a) a study of regulatory and organiza-
tional issues affecting the development of coastal shipping, including insti-
tutional aspects of developing integrated cabotage/trucking services along the
coast (Annex 4); (b) an institutional study to define the organization and
procedures needed to establish a separate channel for local authorities to
obtain financing for feeder and access roads; and (c) technical assistance to
strengthen OSP/DGC investment planning and scheduling (para 3.15).



- 24 -
5.11      Implementation of the project is expected to take about four years
(1982-1985). Further description, economic evaluation and specific covenants
concerning each element of the project are given in subsequent sections of
this Chapter and in Chapters VI and VII.
B.   Cost Estimates
5.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$186 million
equivalent, of which components estimated to cost US$180 million would be
eligible for financing under the proposed loan with parallel cofinancing for
the remainder (para 5.08). These components have an estimated foreign exchange
cost component of US$93 million (about 52%) which would be financed by the
Bank. A summary of project costs is given on the following page. Base costs
are estimated at October 1981 prices.
5.13      The costs of spare parts, equipment overhaul, workshop improvements
and maintenance equipment were prepared by SEM and their consultants. These
estimates are based upon recent experience in Peru (under Loan 1196-PE) as
well as worldwide experience and are adequate; they were reviewed by a Bank--
financed consultant. The startup costs of training, to cover the first two
years, were based on Bank experience on similar projects.
5.14      The costs of civil works for road rehabilitation and road improve--
ments are based on detailed engineering prepared by Peruvian consultants and
MTC, except for the La Merced-Oxapampa section (15% of total civil works
costs) for which preliminary engineering studies are available. This is
sufficient to avoid the risk of major cost increases due to insufficiently
precise bills of quantities. The relatively high average cost of road rehabil-
itation, about US$160,000 per km, reflects the large amount of pavement
strengthening and complete pavement reconstruction required to support the
forecast traffic. It also reflects the need to raise the grades and improve
drainage along portions of the roads. Road improvement costs vary from as
much as US$515,000 per kilometer, in the difficult Carpapata descent between
Tarma and San Ramon, to US$120,000 per kilometer for the paved sections of
the Tarapoto-Moyobamba-Rioja road.
5.15      Unit prices have been based upon recent bids for similar work adjusted
for price escalation. Supervision cost estimates, amounting to about 12% of
construction costs, are based on past experience in Peru, including an allow-
ance for additional engineering by the supervising consultants, particularly
additional borings, and their assistance to MTC in requesting and evaluating
bids. Physical contingencies are set at 15% for construction and rehabilita-
tion, reflecting uncertainty concerning the condition of existing pavement and
the difficulty of road construction in the Andes.
5.16      Estimates of the foreign exchange cost component for civil works are
based on an analysis of contractors' bids (including taxes of about 15%)
on current Bank-financed projects (materials, fuel, asphalt, equipment, spare
parts, labor and overheads). It was assumed that one-third of the works would
be awarded to foreign contractors. Under the current Bank-financed project,
the ratio is lower, but the pressure of the stepped-up construction program on
the local contractors is already being felt, and more foreign firms are
currently participating in bidding procedures than was formerly the case.
Peru is presently a net importer of construction equipment, spare parts and



- 25 -
COST ESTIMATES
(millions US$) 1/
Bank Participation
Local    Foreign  C        Total       Amount      (M)
Rehabilitation, Maintenance and Institutional Strengthening
A.  Road Rehabilitation Program
(i)  Civil works for first tranche (195 km)                     15.00      16.10   (52)    31.10
(ii) Construction supervision of first tranche
(12% of A (i))                                              1.85       1.85   (50)      3.70
(iii)  Detailed engineering for A(i)                                0.28      0.12   (30)       0.40
(iv)  Detailed engineering for 1983 roads                          0.70      0.30   (30)       1.00
(v)  Detailed geotechnical engineering                            0.12      0.28   (70)      0.40
SUBTOTAL A                                                 17.95      18.65            36.60       17.60       (48)
B. Improving Equipment Availability
(i)  Spare parts to complete overhaul program                     0.38      3.82   (91)      4.20
(ii)  Contracted services for overhaul program                     0.65      0.35   (35)      1.00
(iii)  Workshop improvements and equipping                          1.05      1.95   (65)      3.00
(iv)  Maintenance equipment                                        0.27      2.73   (91)      3.00
SUBTOTAL B                                                  2.35       8.85            11.20        8.85       (79)
C. Improving Highway Administration
((i) Specialists for in-line and advisory
positions                                                    0.90      0.50   (35)      1.40
(ii)  Training Program                                             0.33      0.87   (73)      1.20
(iii)  Vehicle weight control system                                0.12      0.28   (70)      0.40
SUBTOTAL C                                                  1.35       1.65             3.00        2.10       (70)
Road Tmprovements in Support of Regional Deoeld1ment
D. Roads
(i)  Civil works for 219 km in Selva Central area               25.73      23.77   (48)    49.50
(ii)  Civil works for 137 km in Alto Mayo area                    6.60       6.10   (48)    12.70
(iii)  Detailed engineering for B(i) & (ii)                        1.12       0.48   (30)      1.60
(iv)  Construction supervision (12% of B(i) & (ii))               3.70       3.70   (50)      7.40
SUBTOTAL D                                                 37.15      34.05            71.:0       34i96       (48)
E. Studies
(i)  Integrated development study in Selva Central                0.40      0.60   (60)       1.00
(ii)  Institutional study for feeder road financing                0.08       0.12   (60)      0.20
SUBTOTAL E                                                  0.48       0.72             1.20        0.84       (70)
Transport Sector Management
F. Studies and Assistance
(i)  Coastal corridor operations study                            0.12      0.28   (70)      0.40
(ii)  Planning assistance to MTC                                   0.10      0.10   (50)       0.20
SUBTOTAL F                                                   0.22      0.38              0.60      0.41
batse Cost - Bank fitanced componients-                   59.50     64.30           123.80      64.00        (52)
G. Contingencies
(i)  Physical (15% A+D and 10% others)                            e.95      9.05            18.00        9.10
(ii)  Price (26%)3/                                               18.55      19.65            38.20      19.90
Total Cost - Bank financed comnonents                    87.00      93.00           180.n0       93.00       (52)
H.  Cofinanced Component - Aecess Road to Oxapampa -
Total Cost including Contingencies                                3.00       3.00             6.00
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                        90.00     96.00           186.00
1/  Price equivalents in soles not given. The current policy of constant adjustment of the exchange rate
would continue to be pursued, making the sole equivalent vary rapidly.
2/ October 1981 prices.
3/ Based on cost escalation in US$ terms, of 10% p.a. for 1981 to 1983 and 9% p.a. in 1984 and 1985.



- 26 -
structural steel, but is self-sufficient in crude oil and its by-products,
which are locally refined. However, in view of the magnitude of the Govern-
ment's road construction program, Peru is expected to become a net importer of
asphalt by 1982. Locally produced goods, raw materials and manufacturing
processes also have significant foreign exchange components. The civil works
foreign exchange component averages about 50%, with road rehabilitation slightly
higher and road improvement about 2% lower. Detailed engineering is being
prepared by local consultants, but construction supervision would be entrusted
to joint ventures of foreign and local firms. The estimated foreign exchange
components for these services average about 30% and 50% respectively. Detailed
engineering for the pilot geotechnical project would be carried out by a mix
of foreign and local consultants, for which a foreign exchange component of
70% has been estimated. Some specialists for strengthening the highway
administration, in particular in fields of high technical expertise such as
geotechnical engineering, would have to be contracted internationally although
most in-line positions would be filled locally. The average foreign exchLange
component for all these services has been estimated at 35%. Maintenance
equipment and spare parts are imported and have a foreign exchange component
of 91%, allowing for local dealer costs. The equipping and improving of
workshops would have a foreign exchange component of about 65%, and contracted
services for equipment overhaul an estimated 35%. For transport studies,
technical assistance and training, the estimated foreign exchange components
range between 75 and 50%, depending upon the expected participation of foreign
experts and the technical equipment importation which is included; the average
for these services is about 70%. The project includes 250 man-months of
technical assistance (para 6.14), of which about 140 man-months would be for
foreign consultants and about 110 man-months would be for local professionals.
This estimate does not include services for engineering, construction supervi-
sion, contracted training staff and experts to strengthen DGC. The man-month
cost for foreign consultants (including salaries, costs, fees, international
and local travel and subsistence) was estimated to average US$10,800; the
average local man-month cost was estimated to be US$2,300.
C.   Financing and Disbursement
5.17      The proposed Bank loan of US$93.0 million would finance about 50%
of project expenditures. For the road access to Oxapampa, cofinancing would
be used with KfW as the most likely source of funds. Thus, for the remaining
project cost, about US$4.5 million would be provided as cofinancing and
US$88.5 million by the Peruvian Government. The loan would be made to the
Government of Peru, with MTC responsible for project execution.
5.18      Retroactive financing for a total amount not exceeding US$1 million
would be allowed for consulting and other services contracted after March 1981.
Specifically, the costs of consulting services for design of the Tarapoto-Rioja,
Chanchomayo-Satipo and La Merced-Villa Rica-Oxapampa road sections and for
design review, before start of construction, of all project roads, would be
eligible for such financing. The cost of supervising consultants to assist
MTC with contractors prequalifications, updating cost estimates and evaluating
bids on the first groups of contracts, which would be bid as soon as possible,
would also be eligible. Costs of consulting services and mapping for the
agricultural development study in the Selva Central area would be eligible.
Similarly, the services of contracted individual engineers (consultants) to
fill positions needed: (a) for completing project preparation or strengthening
MTC highway operations; (b) for extending staff under ongoing technical



- 27 -
assistance to SEM (para 3.26), which is now being financed under Loan 1196-PE,
in particular of a training specialist; and (c) for overseas courses for
training officers and additional services to accelerate equipment overhaul,
would also be eligible.
(i) Working Fund for Financing of Civil Works
5.19      Under the ongoing and previous highway loans, the interval between
payment to contractors by MTC and receipt of disbursements from the Bank has
typically been about three months. MTC, in consequence, has had to provide,
from its budget, the funds to pay the externally financed share of contracts,
partially financed by the Bank, during this interval. This situation is
serious in view of the rampant inflation in Peru (57.9% in 1978, 67.7% in
1979 and 58.2% in 1980) and a corresponding lag in adjustment of exchange
rates. This time lag in disbursements results in a substantially lower real
participation (about 10%) in financing by the Bank. MTC's difficulties in
providing funds for such payments have resulted in delays in payments to
contractors, which have contributed to delays in project implementation. MTC's
allocated budget provides funds only for its eventual share of such contracts.
While the budget law provides for total cost allocation for each investment
regardless of its particular financing, funds released to MTC are limited to
the Government contribution only, e.g., the local cost component. Although
the Ministry of Economy and Finance does, in fact, provide MTC funds earlier
than programed from other items in its approved budget, these funds are not
additional to the annual budget but are "borrowed" from other MTC projects.
This creates the cash-flow problem for MTC in meeting its total obligations
and additional complications on any undischarged commitments which are carried
over into a subsequent fiscal year.
5.20      To correct the situation, two accounts would be established.  The
Government would establish and maintain a Revolving Fund in the amount of
eight weeks' estimated expenditures for civil works. The Bank would establish
and maintain a Working Fund, which would provide immediate replenishment of
the Bank's share of project expenditures to the Government's Revolving Fund.
MTC may request the Bank to make payments from the Loan Account into a Special
Account, to be opened in the Banco de la Nacion. The amount on deposit in the
Special Account may be increased or decreased by the Bank as required for
project execution, but should not exceed US$4.8 million (estimated three
months Bank share of local expenditures for road rehabilitation and road
improvement). Payments from the Special Account would be made by Banco de la
Nacion against withdrawal applications to reimburse the Government's Revolving
Fund for the Bank's share of project expenditures. This arrangement would
reduce the time required for MTC to obtain the externally financed share of
its budget to about two weeks, which would resolve its cash-flow problem.
Withdrawals from the Special Account would be made on the basis of the exchange
rate in effect on the date of disbursement from the Special Account. Banco de
la Nacion would forward the withdrawal applications to the Bank for review and
replenishment of the Special Account. Banco de la Nacion would forward
monthly Statements of Account reflecting transactions to the Special Account
and would forward, not later than four months after the end of each fiscal
year, the results of an audit of the Special Account. The Bank would recover
the amounts advanced to the Special Account by reducing the disbursement
percentage when the undisbursed balance under the road rehabilitation and road
improvement components reaches twice the amount of the advances made into the



- 28 -
Special Account. During negotiations, agreement was reached on establishment,
by the Government, of the Revolving Fund by August 31, 1982 and on the pro--
cedures for replenishment of such Fund by the Government and from the Special
Account. Agreement was also reached concerning the operation of the Special
Account.
(ii) Disbursements
5.21      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against full documenta-
tion, as follows:
(a) civil works including road rehabilitation, road improvements and
workshop improvements - 48% of total expenditures. Since, by
law, MTC is required to place, in interest-bearing bank accounts,
the 5% retained from contract payments for civil works, disburse--
ments would actually be made at the rate of 51% of the actual
monthly payments, excluding the retention guarantee. The contractors
would eventually receive, from MTC, the deposited retention funds,
plus accrued interest;
(b) road maintenance equipment, workshop equipment, spare parts,
vehicle weighing equipment and training abroad - 100% of foreign
expenditures;
(c) consulting services for detailed engineering and construction
supervision - 100% of foreign exchange expenditures under
the contract and 25% of local currency expenditures to cover
indirect foreign exchange costs; and
(d) transport sector studies, technical assistance, including contracted
staff for in-line and advisory positions, contracted services for
the overhaul program and contracted services for training - 70% of
total expenditures.
5.22      The estimated disbursement schedule, reflecting realistic progress
in project implementation, in line with past experience in Peru (Table 5.3),
is summarized below. The schedule anticipates 20% larger cumulative disbursement
at the end of FY1984 than the average of Bank highway projects in Latin America.
This is reasonable in view of the establishment of the Working Fund and of the
measures to strengthen MTC's administration which are included in the project.
The closing date would be June 30, 1986.
US$ millions
End of F.Y.         1983     1984      1985      1986
Annual             18.30    32.40    31.20    11.10
Cumulative         18.30    50.70    81.90    93.00



- 29 -
(iii) Internal Accounting Procedures and Auditing Requirements
5.23      MTC's internal accounting system has been reviewed and found gener-
ally adequate for the identification and certification of Bank project-related
financial transactions. The format, content, frequency and timing of financial
reports were confirmed during negotiations. Internal audit of MTC's accounts
is carried out by an Auditoria; external audit of all Government-related
transactions is the responsibility of the Contraloria General de la Republica.
The capacity and capability of Contraloria to audit the proposed project-related
financial transactions has been investigated, and it is felt that, subject to
some safeguards, and taking into consideration the simplicity of MTC's account-
ing system and the prompt production of periodic financial reports, Contraloria
could conduct a satisfactory audit of the Bank-financed transactions, with
audit reports to be furnished to the Bank within four months from the end of
each fiscal year. After the first year, should Contraloria not be satisfactory,
private auditors would be appointed. Agreement on appointing an auditor, and
on the scope of financial reporting and auditing requirements, was reached
during negotiations. Details on MTC's accounting system, tentative financial
reporting arrangements, and particulars of Contraloria are in Annex 5.
D.   Implementation
5.24      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MTC.
Following the recent decree restructuring MTC and creating the Directorate
of Highways, which provides the framework for improved administration of the
highway subsector, (a) strengthened management in DGC and (b) definition of
responsibilities and delegation of authority are required in order to make the
reorganization effective.  Key measures needed to strengthen MTC's capability
to implement the proposed project are contained in a Plan of Action (para 5.07).
5.25      The project would be carried out over the period 1982-1985.  The
implementation schedule (Table 5.4) was reviewed and confirmed during negotia-
tions. Most civil works would be contracted in 1982 with construction
scheduled mainly in 1983-1984. The other project components would be carried
out in the 1982-1983 period. Consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
engaged for construction supervision, studies and technical assistance for
training. Additional mechanical staff and outside services for accelerated
equipment overhaul would be contracted once sufficient spare parts are
received. Managers, engineers and technicians to fill in-line or advisory
positions or to provide technical assistance services for strengthening
highway administration would be contracted in accordance with a schedule which
was agreed at the time of negotiations and is satisfactory. Filling specific
selected key positions (para 6.14) would be a condition for loan effectiveness.
5.26      The Special Projects Unit under the Consejo de Ministros would be
responsible for contracting and managing the consulting services for the
development study of the Selva Central areas affected by project road improve-
ments. MTC would provide assistance in formulating and supervising the trans-
port infrastructure component of this study. As part of the Plan of Action,
agreement was reached concerning the dates by which these studies would be
started.



- 30 -
5.27      The project would provide for MTC expanding the role of the Inter-
National Loans Office established for the Project Coordinator under Loan
1196-PE, which would become specifically responsible for (a) providing consoli-
dated reporting on project monitoring indices (Annex 6); and (b) preparing the
project completion report. During negotiations, it was agreed that MTC would
provide the office with the staff, budget and support needed to carry out these
responsibilities.
E.   Procurement
5.28      Construction contracts for improvement and rehabilitation works
would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank Guidelines dated March 1977. The new contracting regulations,
January 1981, approved by supreme decree, impose no special restrictions on
foreign contractors' participation in civil works, and provisions in the
budget law overcome the problem of mandatory joint ventures (para 3.18).
Bidding would be in four groups of contracts, each of two to four geographi-
cally proximate lots, at about two-month intervals. Contracts for individual
lots are expected to range between US$3.5 million and US$17.0 million.
Contractors would be prequalified for one or more lots, depending upon capacity.
The grouping of lots and conditions of bidding were confirmed at the time of
negotiations.
5.29      Construction supervision, detailed engineering for rehabilitation
of further highway sections and engineering studies would be conducted by
consultants engaged in accordance with Bank Guidelines dated August 1981.
International and local.consulting firms would be prequalified and selected
to supervise construction of each group of contracts. Joint ventures of
international and local firms would be required in most cases in order to
strengthen local capability, which is being strained by the boom in roadworks.
The arrangements to prequalify international/local joint ventures were con-
firmed at the time of negotiations.
5.30      Road maintenance equipment and workshop tools, amounting to about
US$4.5 million, would be procured by ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Qualified local suppliers of equipment produced in Peru and those from
Cartagena Agreement member countries participating in international competit-ive
bidding would be accorded a margin of preference of 15% or the prevailing
custom duty, whichever is lower. Spare parts for overhaul of specific makes
of equipment, amounting to about US$3.8 million, would be defined with the
assistance of consultants (para 6.11) and would be procured by locally adver--
tised competitive bidding or directly from established dealers. The program
for such procurement would be reviewed and agreed with the Bank. Improvements
to workshops and training facilities, amounting to about US$1.5 million, would
be advertised locally, in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures,
which are satisfactory.
F.   Monitoring
5.31      MTC would be responsible for monitoring and reporting, through
the Project Coordinator's office (para. 5.27), on progress of (a) project
components and (b) measures included in the Plan of Action. Project monitor-
ing indices, given in Annex 6, provide for regular reports concerning:
(a) civil works and consulting services, with progress compared to
the implementation schedule (Table 5.4) and Plan of Action key
dates;



- 31 -
(b) equipment availability, by comparing MTC's operational
equipment with its total equipment;
(c) road maintenance execution, measured by kilometers of road
maintained;
(d) staff training and recruitment, by showing number of staff
trained and comparing number of professional and technical
staff to required staffing levels; and
(e) traffic volumes using the improved and rehabilitated roads.
G.   Project Risks
5.32      Cost estimates for road rehabilitation and road improvement works
have been based on detailed engineering or carefully prepared preliminary
engineering studies (para 5.14). The arrangements for supervision are
adequate and reflect minor corrections of weaknesses encountered under previous
projects where the experience was generally adequate. Nevertheless, the risk
of cost overruns is higher on the road improvements in mountainous sections
than in other non-Andean countries in the Region.
5.33      MTC's capacity to manage the project, as part of the Government's
entire road program, is the area of greatest risk to timely project implementa-
tion. The project provides special measures to strengthen MTC's capacity in
order to reduce this risk.
5.34      The Ministry of Economy and Finance has confirmed that sufficient
counterpart funds would be made available to MTC, and the establishment of the
Working Fund (para 5.20) should avoid delays in payments to contractors, which
have sometimes occi;-red in previous highway projects.
VI. ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
A.   Road Rehabilitation
6.01      A road rehabilitation program (1983-1986) is being prepared under
the Lima-Amazon Corridor Project (Loan 1196-PE) by consultants to MTC (para 3.31).
The program would have four main objectives:
(a) to identify the road sections requiring road rehabilitation
over the 1983-1986 period and to provide preliminary engineering
sufficient to establish the nature and costs of the required work;
(b) to define the periodic maintenance requirements which would need
to be contracted during the same period in order to supplement
MTC's maintenance program;
(c) to develop a pavement management system for systematic planning,
programing and engineering of pavement resealing, strengthening
and rehabilitation; and
(d) to define a pilot program to introduce modern techniques and
equipment for countering landslide problems.



- 32 -
6.02      Preparation of the rehabilitation program would be complete in
August 1982, and subsequent detailed engineering for the roads to be contracted
in 1983 and 1984 would be prepared by consultants financed under the proposed
project (para 5.05). It is expected that about 800 km of pavement reconstruc-
tion or strengthening and 3,000 km of resealing and regraveling over a four-
year period would result from this study. At the time of negotiations, the
Government confirmed that, based on the study recommendations, by September 1,
1982, in consultation with the Bank, it would adopt a four-year road rehabili-
tation program.
6.03      The urgency of checking the continuing deterioration of road condition
demanded immediate measures, as well as future plans. The new Government, by
late 1980, identified about 700 km of roads urgently requiring improvement or
rehabilitation as a first package of its eventual five-year target of improving
.and rehabilitating 2,800 km of roads; 312 of these roads identified as requiring
urgent rehabilitation were scheduled for execution starting in 1981 or early
1982. Of these, 117 km are being financed entirely by the Government, and
195 km are included in the proposed project.
6.04      The first tranche of the rehabilitation program which would be
contracted in 1980 would comprise three road sections (Annex 7), namely:
(a)  Morococha-La Oroya road (44 km).  This road section is a part
of the Central Highway and connects the San Mateo-Morococha road
section to the Oroya-Pucallpa road. Paving of both abutting
sections is being financed under ongoing Loan 1196-PE. The
rehabilitation would strengthen or reconstruct existing pave-
ment, including passage through the mining town of La Oroya.
(b)  Talara-Cancas road (98 km).  This road section is at the northern
end of the Pan-American Highway, not far from the Ecuadoran
border. Rehabilitation would include extensive reconstruction
and strengthening of existing pavement, raising grade in some
sections subject to flooding, and construction of protective
works to counter erosion along two tortuous sections in hilly
terrain.
(c)  Piura-Paita road (53 km).  This road connects the major cotton
center of Piura to the port of Paita. The rehabilitation would
include a 7-km section of the Pan-American Highway and would
involve reconstruction and strengthening of existing pavement
while also raising road grade along about 25 km of road to
reduce blockage by sand dunes.
The rehabilitation of two other road sections, Tanaka-Chala (70 km) and
Huanta-Ayacucho (47 km), for which less detailed engineering was required,
has been undertaken by MTC with local financing in order to advance the
start on these urgently needed projects.



- 33 -
B.   Road Maintenance Program
6.05      MTC's capacity to execute road maintenance is insufficient to
initially carry out more than a limited program. The constraints include:
(a) lack of sufficient and appropriate equipment; (b) insufficiently trained
staff, including engineers; and (c) poor planning and management. These
problems are being addressed under the proposed project. The training program,
the equipment overhaul program, purchase of additional maintenance equipment
and technical assistance to SEM, which would establish equipment renewal and
procurement needs, would increase the capacity of the departments to execute
a full program. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, by
July 31, 1982, it would present its proposed maintenance program for 1983 for
review and comment by the Bank and that, annually thereafter, it would present
an updated program, including budget requirements, for the succeeding year.
6.06      The objectives of the present short-term maintenance program,
1982-1984, are: (a) to obtain immediate, more efficient utilization of avail-
able resources; (b) to concentrate these resources on maintenance of priority
roads; (c) to start contracting supplemental maintenance works; and (d) to
expand the roadnet covered by maintenance as additional resources become
available. The basis for planning road maintenance requirements was developed
and tested in two pilot departments, by MTC and its consultants, during
preparation of the proposed 1978-1981 program (para 3.25). Since that time,
little of the recommended program has been executed, and both the equipment
fleet and road conditions have changed. In addition, little of the training
recommended as a part of the program has been conducted, and the work-force
characteristics have been adversely affected by cutbacks of skilled workers
in 1978-1979 and losses to the private sector, which are continuing.
6.07      Physical road maintenance targets for 1982-1984, reflecting pre-
liminary estimates of current field capacity and equipment constraints, are
shown on the following page. Programing for maintenance work would initially
give priority first to paved roads and second to gravel roads. As shown, MTC
would be able, by 1984, to meet 90% of the paved road routine maintenance
requirement and, respectively, 80% and 50% of those of gravel and earth roads
in the priority network (para 3.25) by 1984. Detailed estimated budget
requirements for labor, equipment, fuel, spare parts and materials are given
in Table 6.1.



- 34 -
Road Surface
Type                Percentage of Maintenance Requirements to be Met by MTC
(R = routine, P = periodic, E = emergency)
1982              1983              1984
R   P     E       R    P   E        R   P        E
Priority Network
Paved (7,000 km)          60   50   100    75   60  100        90   70      100
Gravel (12,000 km)        50   50   100    60   60  100        80   70      100
Earth (13,000 km)         30    -   100    40    -  100        50    -      100
Remaining Network         essential 100   essential 100        essential   100
(27,000 km)              repairs          repairs           repairs
Budget Requirement (in US$ millions, October 1981)
Recurrent                 26.43              29.84             33.94
Periodic (contracted)    12.50               15.00             17.50
Total                38.93             44.84             51.44
6.08      The program above also includes contracted sealing and regraveling,
starting in 1982. The full requirements for such work would be developed as
a part of the road rehabilitation program (para 6.01), to overcome the backlog
requirement. Also, the capacity of MTC's maintenance organization to plan for
and to have this work executed must be developed. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that, not later than September 1, 1982, it would present
its proposed road rehabilitation program for 1983, for review and comment by
the Bank, and that annually thereafter it would present an updated program
for the succeeding year.
6.09      Annual recurrent expenditures for road maintenance would grow from
about US$39 million in 1982 to US$51.5 million in 1984 (1981 prices), towaLrd
an estimated eventual level of about US$60 million annually once the rehabil-
itation program is complete. Additional capital expenditures of about US$12
million annually would be required for equipment renewal and workshop improve-
ments. These figures would need to be reassessed, as the program progresses,
to reflect actual equipment utilization and MTC policy regarding equipment
rebuilding as an alternative to renewal. Projected expenditures for the
Maintenance Program and improvements to the equipment fleet and workshops in
the 1982-1984 period would average about US$67 million annually.
6.10      An equipment renewal program is being prepared by the consultants
who are providing technical assistance to SEM (para 3.32), with the object
of attaining systematic annual replacement of wornout maintenance equipment
and vehicles, and concurrently correcting the bias in the composition of the



- 35 -
existing fleet, which is structured for construction rather than maintenance
needs. This program would also be ready by the second quarter of calendar
1982. The Government confirmed, during negotiations, that, based upon its
review of the consultants' recommended program, not later than September 1,
1982, it would present its proposed program of equipment renewal for 1983
for review and comment by the Bank and that, annually thereafter, it would
present an updated program for the succeeding year.
6.11      Measures to increase equipment availability have already been
initiated. The program for overhaul of broken-down equipment (para 3.31),
with spare parts purchases financed under the ongoing loan, is expected to
repair 138 units of equipment, mostly dump trucks and motorgraders, by mid-
1982. The spare parts purchase program would also establish an initial stock
of fast-moving spare parts needed for preventive maintenance of all MTC's
dumptrucks and heavy equipment. Expansion and acceleration of this program,
under the proposed project, would permit the rehabilitation of another 275
units of equipment and vehicles by mid-1983. The proposed project would
include:
(a)  acquisition of spare parts to complete the overhaul program of
a further 275 units of equipment and vehicles needed for road
maintenance;
(b)  contracting for services by suppliers and/or contracting addi-
tional mechanical staff to accelerate the repair works, including
further technical assistance to SEM;
(c)  improving workshops, including acquisition of workshop equipment
and tools needed for the repairs and preventive equipment main-
tenance; and
(d)  acquisition of additional light equipment and vehicles needed
to improve MTC's capacity to perform and supervise routine
maintenance.
As a part of the road maintenance budget requirements (para 6.07), agreement
was reached with the Government during negotiations on the annual value of
fast-moving spare parts which would be procured to support repair of the
presently operating and overhauled equipment units. The Plan of Action
includes the reports of spare parts purchases, which would be maintained
for review by the Bank.
6.12      The program of equipment rehabilitation is also being used for
on-the-job training of mechanical staff. Regional shop mechanics have been
brought to Lima, where the majority of units have been concentrated to
participate in overhaul operations and will be returned to their regional
workshop to continue working on overhauls of similar units. Additional
mechanics would also be contracted by MTC to accelerate overhaul operations,
and some, if not all, would subsequently be kept on as MTC staff. The purchase
of needed workshop tools is being financed under the ongoing loan with addi-
tional purchases included under the proposed project.



- 36 -
C.   Strengthening of Highway Agencies
6.13      Recent changes, which have started to establish a framework for
strengthening DGC's management of highway maintenance, were discussed in
Chapter III. However, important policy directives need to be introduced
in order to implement MTC's maintenance policy. Steps of major importance are:
(a) classifying the roadnet and establishing the respective responsi-
bilities of DGC's headquarters division and field offices for
engineering, construction and maintenance of each class of road:;
(b)  establishing the responsibility, authority and financial autonomy
of the field offices in planning and carrying out maintenance;
(c) establishing maintenance priority over force account construction
in the allocation and use of equipment; and
(d) introducing contracted maintenance.
A schedule of key actions needed to meet these objectives is included in
the Plan of Action (para 5.07).
6.14      DGC's management and technical capacity is severely strained.  To
strengthen DGC, experienced managers and professionals would be contracted,
for a period of about two years, to work in in-line and advisory positions and
to help supervise and train more junior staff. The positions, which were
confirmed prior to negotiations, are given below. The schedule for contracting
engineers or managers to fill all positions was reviewed and is satisfactory.
Engaging satisfactory individuals or consultants to fill five key positions,
which were agreed during negotiations, would be a condition for loan effec-
tiveness.
Positions               Number   Man-Years
Engineer Managers *           5          10
Construction Managers         2           4
Design Engineers              2           4
Geotechnical and
Soils Engineers            3           6
Maintenance Engineers         3           6
Equipment and Workshop
Managers                   2           4
TOTAL                     17          34
*    Key Positions to be filled as a condition  for effectiveness
(para 5.25).



- 37 -
D.   Training
6.15      MTC has contracted an expatriate training specialist to establish,
by February 28, 1982, the initial phase of MTC's training program for 1982-
1983. Training activities under the initial phase would begin in May 1982.
The program for the subsequent phase would be established by June 30, 1982.
The entire four-year (1982-1985) training program would strengthen and expand
ongoing training activities and would be especially addressed to supervising
engineers, road foremen, equipment operators, drivers, mechanics and store-
keepers. The program would train about 1,500 personnel, 850 from DGC and 650
from SEM, and would include the establishment of a permanent Training Division;
the recruitment of training specialists/instructors; the purchase of training
equipment and materials; the organization of seminars for senior staff;
training arrangements with SENATI and other suitable institutions outside MTC;
and short courses abroad for training officers and middle and high-level staff
(Annex 8 and Table 6.2). The Plan of Action (para 5.07) provides that, by
June 30, 1982, MTC would furnish to the Bank the proposed training program and
would provide the road maintenance equipment for field training and an adequate
supply of spare parts for the training of operators and mechanics.
E.   Economic Evaluation
6.16      The economic evaluation of the road rehabilitation has focused on
the selected road sections. The economic justification of the other measures
for strengthening maintenance and management and improving equipment availability
and training has not been evaluated in detail, but it would, on the basis of
comparison with similar projects, yield at least equal or higher benefits than
rehabilitation work. For these road sections, the main benefits considered
were savings in vehicle operating costs, time savings and savings in the cost
of maintenance of the road. Most important of these are the vehicle operating
cost savings calculated in a way broadly similar to that of the Highway Design
Model. Existing traffic volumes and historic growth trends were obtained from
a program of traffic counts on main roads, and projected growth estimates were
prepared using origin-destination (0-D) survey results and projected economic
growth of the different areas served by each road. Traffic volumes and growth
rates are shown in Table 6.3.
6.17      Vehicle operating costs were estimated on the basis that new or
rehabilitated pavement would be in good condition while the existing badly
paved surface condition would not change during the period of analysis.
Table 6.4 shows the basic vehicle operating costs, i.e., those calculated for
the ideal situation of a good surfaced, straight, flat and congestion-free
road. Relevant vehicle operating costs were calculated for each type of
vehicle by adjusting the basic costs to the conditions and geometric character-
istics of each particular road. No consideration was given to the effect of
congestion on vehicle operating costs since the ratio volume of traffic-capacity
of the roads is, and will remain, relatively low, even at the end of the
period of analysis.
6.18      The time cost of passengers traveling on the two north roads was
also estimated, based on information obtained from an 0-D census on the Piura-
Paita road. It was assumed that both the vehicle occupancy and travel motive
distribution would be much the same for the Talara-Cancas road. It was found



- 38 -
that 3.5 passengers and 26 passengers were the average occupancy of light
vehicles and buses. Of Light vehicle passengers, 42% traveled for work
motives. On buses, this figure rose to 70%. For the La Oroya-Morococha road,
O-D surveys showed an average occupancy of 3.05 and 20.53 passengers for
light vehicles and buses respectively; 86% of light vehicle passengers were
found to travel because of work.  This figure rose to 95% in buses.  For
people traveling as light vehicle passengers on the northern roads, a higher
income level was assumed (S/. 893 per hour) than that of bus passengers (S/. 387
per hour).  The values considered for the La Oroya-Morococha road were SI. 835
and SI. 280 respectively.  With these hourly values based on average regional
income and the average speed of each type of vehicle, a time cost value was
estimated for passengers traveling because of work, for both the present and
project roads. No value was assigned to passengers who travel for reasons
other than work.
6.19      Maintenance costs were calculated based on MTC norms developed with
the assistance of consultants in 1974-1977 (para 3.04). Differences in pavement
maintenance were estimated for roads in good and present condition. Although
the related maintenance activities are not carried out at present with the
necessary frequency, it was estimated, for this analysis, that further road
deterioration would be prevented in the without project situations by perform-
ing the required maintenance.
6.20      The financial construction costs, calculated in constant soles
(January 1981), were adjusted to eliminate fiscal transfer payments and to
price fuel at its opportunity cost. No attempt was made to shadow price other
inputs. Fiscal transfer payments were estimated, and, after marginal pricing
of fuel derivatives, the coefficient of 0.85 was obtained as the ratio of
economic/financial construction costs. The residual value was estimated as
46% of total rehabilitation investment costs for the Talara-Cancas road, and
40% for the Piura-Paita and La Oroya-Morococha roads.
6.21      Rehabilitation of the three project roads yielded economic rates
of return for the Morococha-La Oroya, Talara-Cancas and Piura-Paita road
projects respectively as follows:
With time savings   Without time savings
Morococha-La Oroya             58%                    46%
Talara-Cancas                  32%                    28%
Piura-Paita                    43%                    38%
Table 6.5 shows the economic annual cost and benefit streams for each road
project and for each road section (without time savings) and the corresponding
rates of return, and sensitivity tests are provided in Table 7.4. An analysis
to determine the optimum timing of investments showed that all rehabilitation
projects should be carried out as planned. For the overall economic analysis
of the whole project, only the estimate without time savings was used.



- 39 -
VII. ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A.   General
7.01      Peru's three ecological zones - the Costa, the Sierra and the Selva -
have distinct agricultural characteristics. In the rainless Costa, production
is possible only under irrigation and is generally a high-input, high-output
mechanized activity which produces most of the agricultural export crops
(cotton, sugar), as well as a high proportion of the country's food. Agricul-
tural expansion is limited to those areas where irrigation is economically
feasible. In the cold, high-altitude Sierra, good agricultural soil is scarce
and mostly concentrated in scattered, high valleys, with the remaining areas
sparsely farmed. Agriculture, both rainfed and irrigated, is traditionally a
low-input, low-output subsistence activity. In both these zones, land pressure
is high, and, therefore, as access to the portions of the Selva with better
potential becomes possible, spontaneous movement of settlers to these zones
takes place.
7.02      Even in the Selva zone, there exist considerable differences in the
agricultural potential of different areas. The areas of higher potential,
on account of climatic, rainfall, topographic and soils conditions, are
generally found in the upper Selva regions (elev. 800-2,000 m), although
the lower areas may also have relatively higher potential than barren Sierra
plateaus and coastal deserts. The basic concept in the planning of the
"Marginal de la Selva" road was to connect the under-utilized areas of the
upper Selva to each other, as well as to the main trans-Andean roads, which
traverse all three zones, and thus provide access to both the coastal markets
and the Amazon basin river ports. Development of the areas roughly east of
Lima and the Mayo and Huallaga river valley of the "Ceja de Selva" area in the
north of Peru has been, and is, constrained by inadequate road access, which
results in high transport costs and limits market access for produce.
7.03      Spontaneous settlements in these zones starts around even the crudest
seasonal motorable tracks, so that a number of other important development
problems also need to be addressed: land titling, erosion control, farm
extension, education and provision of other basic services. However, road
transport infrastructure also plays an important role in providing access for
technicians, extension agents, health officials and other service officers,
as well as facilitating the import of farm inputs. The road improvements in
the proposed project would support ongoing or planned regional/agricultural
development assistance and would encourage further settlement in areas where
coordinated regional development programs could help avoid some of the ecolo-
gical consequences of unguided colonization.



- 40 -
B.   Selva Central - Regional Development
(i) Production and Potential
7.04      The potential of the Selva Central for economic development has led
to a number of studies and projects to open up the area since the beginnirLg
of this century. The area is relatively close to metropolitan Lima (Map IBRD
15979), and its climate, soils and topography allow a relatively wide range
of agricultural use. Below an altitude of some 2,000 meters, the prevailing
natural vegetation is tropical forest, with a variety of species depending
on soils and rainfall. A relatively large part of the upper Selva Central has
broken topography, which limits agricultural use and makes construction of
infrastructure, such as roads, costly. So far, the opening-up of the area has
been slow, generally starting with the cutting of the most valuable species of
wood and continuing with more intensive use for vegetable production, fruit
orchards and cattle raising, mainly in the valleys. On the higher slopes,
forest exploitation continues, as well as a wide variety of tropical crops
such as coffee, oranges, papaya and bananas (Tables 7.1-7.2).
7.05      With the broken topography of the upper Selva and, in some areas,
limitations of soil quality, forestry is going to continue as a main activity
with a relatively large proportion of protective forests to avoid excessive
soil erosion. Closer attention to forest management, with a more vigorous
reforestation program, is therefore essential. Presently, only large
properties need to carry out such programs.
7.06      Known mineral resources in the Selva Central are limited to a
small production of lead and zinc and the Ganso Azul (Pachitea) small oil
field (1,400 barrels/day); its production is refined in the 2,500 barrel/day
refinery in Pucallpa.  The area, however, with high and even rainfall and
rugged topography, has considerable resources of hydroelectric power, virtually
unused. Several projects of a total of 11,000 MW are being studied for long-
term development.
(ii) Development Programs
7.07      The World Bank started discussions with INP and MTC in February
1973 with the objective of financing studies and programs for integrated
development of the region. In June 1973, INP recommended forming a multi--
sectoral committee to develop terms of reference for actions to develop
projects in the region, such as basic studies to be carried out to define
investment priorities. Later, as a result of the institutional difficulties
of a multisectoral approach, MTC, which was responsible for the largest
volume of investment, began an evaluation of road projects in the area. This
was done in accordance with guidelines established by the above-mentioned
committee with emphasis on integrated regional development. The prefeasibility
study was started by the Oficina Sectorial de Planificacion and Direccion de
Ingenieria, and the Oficina de Estudios Economicos, established in 1979,
finished the work in May 1980.



- 41 -
7.08    The main objective of this study was to define a transport system
to permit access to, and development of, several valleys (Pachitea, Pichis,
Palcazu, Tambo, Urubamba and Alto Ucayali). The final result anticipated
by the proposed development was integration within the region and, with the
rest of Peru, exploiting new resources for the Peruvian economy and permitting
immigration into the region; the study primarily identifies the transport
network required to do that. Essentially, four development areas have been
identified which will progressively allow use of an additional 3,165,000
hectares and, ultimately, a settlement with a population of some 700,000 persons
until year 2010. The major part of the area (85%) will permit exploitation
of forestry resources. The areas are the San Alejandro-Puerto Bermudez, the
Palcazu River Valley, the Pozuzo-Codo del Pozuzo in the northern part of the
region, south of the road Tingo Maria-San Alejandro-Pucallpa and the Satipo-
Atalaya area still further south.
7.09      There is a clear need for multisectoral coordination by the respec-
tive ORDE (proposed Corporacion) for the area to plan and direct an orderly
settlement and to avoid ecological degradation. This goal is met, to some
extent, by the Pichis-Palcazu project office. USAID will assist the Govern-
ment in developing the Pichis-Palcazu Valley, and a project unit has been
established for the development of this valley. However, the Corporacion to
be responsible for the area needs to be developed. The Pichis-Palcazu office
(under the Prime Minister) will be the focal point for all development efforts
in the region, including Oxapampa, the Chanchamayo Valley and Satipo, which
are separate geographic areas.
7.10      In the Chanchamayo Valley area and other districts close to San
Ramon-La Merced, around Oxapampa and between La Merced and Satipo, a greater
degree of development, mostly by spontaneous settlement, has taken place
over a period of years. The whole zone is very well located at a relatively
short distance east of Lima, the main market, but access is still a major
constraint. The latest impetus was given by the construction of the La Merced-
Satipo and La Merced-Villa Rica penetration roads a few years ago, which
opened up other areas of forest. The proposed project would pursue this
development by improved access from the west, through the Villa Rica/
Satipo-La Merced-San Ramon-Tarma routes for a general upgrading of agricul-
tural sales to the Costa and the Lima metropolitan area. It would also
improve access to the Oxapampa area, for which KfW is reviewing a regional/
agricultural development project; the original colonization of this area
was largely of German origin. The access road to Oxapampa would form part
of this project.
7.11      Under the project, the Government would undertake, with Bank
participation, a rural development study for the San Ramon-Satipo-Atalaya
region, taking into account the activities of other aid agencies (USAID,
KfW) and the fact that the San Ramon-La Merced and Oxapampa areas, already
relatively well developed, would serve as a suitable base for required insti-
tutions. This project could assist such a rural development project by the
necessary specific feasibility study (see Terms of Reference in Annex 3).
The study would provide a framework for longer term development of feeder
roads in parts of the region. Since the production potential would take a
long time to realize, possibly longer than the 30 years indicated, it would
be premature to initiate any action on specific feeder roads in the context
of this highway project until the study has been completed.



- 42 -
(iii) Road Infrastructure Requirements
7.12      Road access to Selva Central is essentially by San Ramon-Tarma-
La Oroya-Lima (295 km) or, to a much lesser extent, Pucallpa-Tingo Maria-
Huanuco-Lima (783 km). The area is also served by river transport on the
Ucayali River and its various tributaries and by air mainly from San Ramon.
Apart from upgrading the existing roads included in the project, the completion
of the Villa Rica-Puerto Bermudez and San Alejandro-Puerto Bermudez roads
(also serving the Pichis-Palcazu valley) and the improvement of the La Merced-
Oxapampa-Pozuzo roads are required for using the potential of the area. In
the longer term, the improvement of the airport of Atalaya and the Huacho-Oyon-
Ambo road is desirable in order to open up a shorter distance to the coast as
an alternative to the Lima-La Oroya road.
7.13      The major access to the Selva Central by the Lima-La Oroya-Tarma--
San Ramon road has, in part, been improved or rehabilitated under previous
Bank-financed projects. The highest altitude road section (elev. 4,834 m) of
the road to Lima, between San-Mateo and Morococha, was rehabilitated under
Loan 1196-PE. The rehabilitation of the adjoining Morococha-La Oroya road is
included in the proposed project. The road between La Oroya and Aguaytia has
been improved and paved under Loan 1196-PE and its predecessor, Loan 1025-PE.
The most difficult road section, which at present severely limits access to
the southern Selva Central area, is part of the Tarma-San Ramon section. The
road sections which would be improved under the proposed project are:
(a) Selva Central Area
(i)  Tarma-San Ramon-La Merced (72 km).  The portion of this
road from the San Felix bridge to the towns of San Ramon
and La Merced (up to San Carlos Bridge): about 19 km is
already being paved, entirely financed by the Government.
The Tarma-San Felix bridge road section (53 km), whose
improvement would be included under the project, starts as
rehabilitation of paved road for about 25 km (to Huayocnioc
bridge) and then changes to widening and paving the steep,
narrow, tortuous descent which forms the main transportation
bottleneck between the agriculturally rich San Ramon, La
Merced area and the markets of the Sierra and the Coast.
(ii)  La Merced-Villa Rica (56 km).  The platform to this road
has been constructed to engineered gravel road standards.
Improvement works would include protective works against
river scour, slope stabilization measures, drainage improve-
ments and paving.
(iii)  Chanchamayo Bridge to Satipo (110 km).  Branching east from
the above road, at the Chanchamayo bridge site about 12 km
from La Merced, the platform of this road has also been
constructed to engineered geometric gravel road standards.
Inadequate drainage, cross drainage and a number of areas
with slope stability problems would be corrected, the road
would be paved, and some protective works against river
action would be constructed.



- 43 -
(iv) Access to Oxapampa (about 44 km). Improving an existing,
narrow, access road to gravel road standards (5.0 m wide)
has been studied for cofinancing by KfW.
(iv) Traffic
7.14      In view of the long timeframe for development of the area, projected
traffic growth on the road improvements is dominated by the demand, by the
population and by the production already in the region. The traffic on the
project roads varies considerably (Table 6.3) from 113 ADT close to Oxapampa
to almost 1,900 ADT between La Merced and San Ramon. The population in the
Selva Central, with the development taking place over the past decade, is
growing at 3-5% per year, a figure which may become slightly higher depending
on the intensity of the development programs. For full-scale development over
some 30 years, a population growth of 5% per year for Selva Central as a whole
has been forecast. For this long timeframe, the effect from the road on
traffic generation will largely occur after the first ten years. No separa-
tion of generated traffic has therefore been made.
C.   Alto Mayo - Regional Development
(i) Production and Potential
7.15      Another part of the humid subtropical "Ceja de Selva" is the Alto
Mayo area, some 800 km north of the Selva Central. This area, like part of
the Selva Central, is one of the few reserves of underutilized accessible
land suitable for arable cropping in Peru. The Government looks to agricul-
tural development of the Ceja de Selva not only to produce food for its
settlers but also to contribute to exports or reduce imports. Oil palm,
rice, fruits, coffee and tea and also livestock production are being developed.
Apart from oil palm, production is mainly by small and medium farmers. There
is no "latifundia" problem and no need for agrarian reform as such, although
increased effort is needed to grant land titles to the settlers.
7.16      The major areas of agricultural development in the Ceja de Selva
are the Alto Mayo and Huallaga Valleys in the department of San Martin.
The total population in this part of the department was about 188,000 at the
time of the last census (in 1972), growing to about 240,000 at present, of
which the majority (over 60%) are urban dwellers mainly in Tarapoto, and in
the small towns of Moyobamba, Rioja and Juanjui, supporting the surrounding
areas by various services.
(ii) Development Programs
7.17      The Alto Mayo rural development project, now under preparation for
possible Bank financing, is one part of the strategy for development of the
area. The Alto Mayo valley is a relatively flat valley which now supports
some 60,000 people. More intensive use of the land would permit another
50-60,000 by 1990. A wider variety of production is possible than in most
of the Selva Central. The crops, depending on soils and elevation, vary
from rice, corn, soya and sorghum for sale outside the region to plantain,



- 44 -
yuca, beans and all kinds of fruits, such as bananas, pineapples, mango,
papaya and guava, as well as coffee. A large part of the land is or will be
irrigated, growing ultimately to some 70,000 hectares compared to 25,000 for
fruits and 20,000 hectares for pasture.
7.18      A similar development is under way in the Huallaga Valley south
of Tarapoto with support from USAID and other bilateral aid. The altitude
and rainfall in this area are lower; therefore, the agricultural use is
different: forestry, tobacco farming and cattle raising are typical examples.
A number of agro-industries are in the planning stage: an edible oil plant, a
dairy plant, an animal feed plant and an integrated sugar plant, in addition
to warehouses and silos for storage of food products. Generally, the Tarapoto
area has shown a more active growth than the much older capital of San Martin,
Moyabamba, but access to the rest of Peru is still a limiting factor.
(iii) Road Infrastructure Requirements and Traffic
7.19      The opening up of the "Ceja de Selva" reached the Alto Mayo area
in 1978, connecting it with a dry season road to the Pan-American Highway
at Olmos, 500 km distant to the northwest. The road connecting the towns of
Rioja and Moyabamba to Tarapoto had already been completed eight years earlier
under a USAID project. The major project in this part of San Martin would be
rehabilitation and partial upgrading of the main road through the area from
Rioja-Moyobamba to Tarapoto. The platform for this road was constructed in
the period 1968-1970.  Improvement would consist of paving the road section in
the Alto Mayo area (33 km), including the Rioja-Moyobamba road section, and
also paving the road section in the Bajo Mayo area between Tarapoto and the
Bolivia bridge across the Mayo river (34 km).  The Central section (70 km),
climbing between the lower and higher agricultural areas, would be rehabili-
tated to gravel road standard. All sections would benefit from measures to
improve drainage and to stabilize localized areas of slope or platform insta-
bility. Another vital problem is improved access to the coast. This is
partly to be solved by the IDB-financed upgrading of the Olmos-Corral Quemado
road, 1/ which is about to start, and by strengthening the road maintenance
capability under the proposed project and a study of improvements to the most
critical sections of the Corral Quemado-Rioja Section.
7.20      Current traffic on the Rioja-Tarapoto Road is a blend of local and
some long-distance traffic between the Huallaga Valley and the rest of Peru
since this road is the only access. The development programs under way
will influence both, but particularly the long-distance movements. This
has been reflected in the traffic forecasts (Table 6.3) where growth in
truck traffic is anticipated to be a high 6% or more per year.
1/   This project for a 196-km road is expected to cost US$150 million,
of which US$81.5 million is financed by IDB for completion in 1985.



- 45 -
D.   Economic Evaluation of Road Improvements
7.21      The development of traffic will be influenced by various proposed,
as well as ongoing, programs in the two Selva areas. Improvements to these
main roads will undoubtedly assist agricultural development. The precise
extent of influence of the road improvements upon traffic growth, is, however,
difficult to determine. Compared to a 3% annual growth rate on developed
roads in the Costa, the traffic growth on these Selva roads generally ranges
from 4.5 to 6% per year. These growth rates have been adopted (Table 6.3)
for the purposes of the economic evaluation and for determining the general
road standards to be used for different road sections.
7.22      Detailed calculations of construction costs have been carried
out for the different road sections by MTC and consultants. All have been
correlated against recent prices for similar types of work. These financial
costs have been converted to economic costs by the exclusion of taxes and by
shadow pricing of fuel requirements. The combined factor used is .85 of
the financial cost for these roads.
7.23      The main benefit of the project roads and their improvement is
a reduction in transport cost, mainly for trucks. Most trucks in this area
are owner-operated and relatively small because of the terrain limitations.
The methodology for estimating vehicle operating costs is more completely
described in Chapter VI. On the basis of vehicle operating cost savings only,
without including any passenger time savings or benefits from reduced road
maintenance costs, the rates of return for these roads range from 18% to 63%
based on cost/benefits in Table 7.3. For these calculations, an assumed
economic life of ten years has been included generally after a two-year
construction period. The overall return is 40% for these roads and 39% for
the project as a whole. A sensitivity test was carried out, showing that
only for one road section did the rate of return go as low as 13% (Table 7.4).
If discounted at the opportunity cost of capital (13%), construction cost
could increase 121% for road rehabilitation works and 176% for new road
construction before being uneconomic. First-year returns are also all very
high, indicating that these works are overdue. These estimates are all
conservative since all present costs associated with road closures and other
constraints on traffic have not been included together with time and mainte-
nance cost savings. In the rainy season, particularly in the Selva Central,
these constraints are frequent, but not easy to estimate with accuracy.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) that the Bank would be given the opportunity to review and comment
on any major investments (over US$10 million) which are started
in the period (para 1.21);
(b) that, not later than December 31, 1982, it would adopt an expanded
program for enforcing improved vehicle weight control (para 2.04);



- 46 -
(c) that, not later than October 1, 1982, it would adopt a road classi-
fication system as the basis for establishing the jurisdiction
of national, regional and other authorities in regard to road
planning, design, construction and maintenance and would update
road classification annually thereafter (para 3.02);
(d) introduction by MTC, to the extent permissible by law, of adequate
personnel grade classifications and salary levels for permanent
staff in DGC and SEM by January 1, 1984 (para 3.34);
(e) the Plan of Action, which incorporates target dates for the
steps needed to strengthen highway administration, MTC's
capacity to implement the project, and road maintenance and
equipment management (para 5.07);
(f) the establishment, by the Government, of the Revolving Fund by
August 31, 1982 and the procedures for replenishment of such Fund
by the Government and from the Special Account; also agreement
concerning the operation of the Special Account (para 5.20);
(g) format, content, frequency and timing of financial reports; also
appointing of an auditor and the scope of financial reporting and
auditing requirements (para 5.23);
(h) that MTC would provide its International Loans Office with the
staff, budget and support needed to carry out its responsibilities
under the project (para 5.27);
(i)  grouping of lots and conditions of bidding for road improvement and
rehabilitation works (para 5.28);
(j) arrangements to prequalify international/local joint ventures of
consulting firms for construction supervision (para 5.29);
(k) adoption of a four-year road rehabilitation program based on the
consultants' study recommendations, in consultation with the Bank,
by September 1, 1982 (para 6.02);
(1)  presentation of MTC's proposed maintenance program for 1983, inclading
budget requirements, for review and comment by the Bank, by July 31,
1982 and annually thereafter (para 6.05);
(m)  that, not later than September 1, 1982, it would present its proposed
road rehabilitation program for 1983, for review and comment by
the Bank, and that, annually thereafter, it would present an updated
program for the succeeding year (para 6.08);



- 47 -
(n) that, not later than September 1, 1982, it would present its proposed
program of equipment renewal for 1983 for review and comment by
the Bank, and that, annually thereafter, it would present an updated
program for the succeeding year (para 6.10); and
(o) road maintenance budget requirements, including the annual value of
fast-moving spare parts (para 6.11).
8.02      The filling of five key positions for technical assistance services
would be a condition for loan effectiveness (paras 5.25 and 6.14).
8.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$93 million. The terms would be 17 years, including a four-
year grace period.
January 21, 1982



- 48 -
PERU                                  TABLE 1.1
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Central Government Budget for Transport Infrastructure 1977-1981
Soles (millions)
1977     1978    1979        1980       1981
Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MTC)
Current Expenditure  2493       2864     3939      6355      12274
Road Maintenance       N.A.    1692      5033 1/  9499 l/  15956 1/
Total MTC               9981.2  11481.1 25354        42334      65907
CORPAC                     70               218        457
ENAFER                   450       235      714       2071       3077
ENATRU                             100      174       1337
ENAPU                                      3956.3    7288
ORDE's Total                               1405      4987      14123
Soles (million)        10501.2   11816.1 31821.3  58971        83107
Soles/$                    83.8     156.3  225         281        400
US$ m                    125.3       75.6   141.4      208 .1    207.8
Total Central
Government Budget   221,631.7 289,740.6 576752   967,171 1859,820
Share of Transport (%)  4.74       4.08      5.52     6.04       4.47
1/ Includes ORDE's and SEM
Source: Budget laws, mission estimates
August 1981



PERU
EIGHTH HIGULAY PROJECT
Transport Sector Share of GDP 1970-1979
Millions of 1973 Soles
1970            1971            1972           1973          1974           1975           1976          1977             1978            1979
Transport by land         13,622          13,988           15,005        15,998        17,104          18,214        19,333         19,581          19,461          20,140
water        1,945           2,373            2,494         2,984         4,079           4,113         3,971          3,793            3.506          3,758
air            776             701              738           910         1,044           1,698         1,814          2,059           2,144           2,239
Transport total           16,343          17,062           18,237        19,892        22,227          24,025        25,118         25,433          25,111          26,137       >
Total CDP in             342,313         359,263          367,472       383,163       414,969         431,697       443,715        444,931         441,721         456,415
Producer's prices
% Share for Transport    4.8               4.7              5.0           5.2           5.4             5.6           5.7            5.7              5.7            5.7
Source: Peru: Major Development Policy Issues and Recommendations, April 27, 1981
August 1981



- 50 -
Table 1.3
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cargo Transport by Mode
Ton km/year (000,000)
Coastal    River and
Highways     Railways    Shipping        Lake       Total
1976
General Cargo              5,100           200         -            200       5,500
Petroleum                    100           100       3,700          100       4,000
Minerals                     100           300          500                      900
Other Special Cargo          600                                                 600
Total                      5,900           600       4,200          300      11,000
1980 (Estimate)
General Cargo              6,443           200                      257       6,900
Petroleum                    157           128       4,043          129        4,457
Minerals                     100           329         814                     1,243
Other Special Cargo          857                                                 857
Total                      7,557           657       4,857          386      13,457
1990 (Projected)
General Cargo              9,800           200                      400      10,400
Petroleum                    3.00          200       4,900          200       5,600
Minerals                     100           400       1,600                     2,100
Other Special Cargo       1,500             _1500
Total                     11,700           800       6,500          600      19,600
Average Yearly Growth(%)
1976-1980 (actual)           6.4           1.8        3.7           6.5        '5.2
1980-1990 (projected)        4.5           2.0        3.0           4.5        :3.8
Source:  MTC, Plan Sectorial de Transportes a Largo Plazo, 1979-80
MTC, Plan Operativo Sectorial 1981-82
August 1981



- 51 -
TABLE 2.1
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Weights and Dimensions
Critical Aspect                   Type of Vehicle         Roads A         Roads B
Length                         Truck and Trailer           20.0 m         16.4 m
Height                         All                          4.0m           4.0m
Width                          All                          2.6m           2.6m
Weight Front Axle              All                          6.0 tons       4.0 tons
Weight Rear Single Axle        All                         11.0 tons      10.0 tons
Weight Rear Tandem Axle        All                         18.0 tons      16.0 tons
Total Weight                   3  axle truck + 3 axle
trailer                    45.0 tons        -
Total Weight                   Truck + Semitrailer                        34.0 tons
NOTE: Roads A: Panamericana de la Costa, Arequipa-Mollendo, Lima-La Oroya-
i?uanuco-Pucallpa, La Oroya-Huancayo, La Oroya-Tarma,
Pacasmayo-Tembladera, Pativilca-Huaraz-Caraz.
Roads B: All other national roads.
Source: Decreto Supremo No. 001-81-TO, published in the official newspaper,
El Peruano on January 19, 1981.
May 1981



- 52 -                             TABLE 2.2
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Vehicle Fleet - 1976-1980
1976          1977           1978           1979           1980  /
Automobiles            265,486        272,643        273,872        273,363         278,222
Station Wagons          23,380         26,798         28,134         29,259          31,238
Pick-ups                75,726         81,073         82,648         84,497          89,196
Buses                   17,001         17,454         17,842         17,754          17,790
Light Trucks            58,971         60,762         60,924         61,225          62,796
Trailers and   2/
semi-trailers-          2,607          2,831          2,963          3,254           3,669
Tractors for
tractor trailers       2,436         2,607          2,774          2,883         - 3,173
TOTAL                  445,607        464,168        469,157        472,235         486,084
Population(millions)   15.91           16.36          16.82         17.29           17.78
Persons/motorized
vehicle (motori-
zation)     35.9           35.5           36.1           36.9            36.9
1/ Estimates
2/ Non-powered vehicles
Source:  MTC - Vehicle Ownership Registry
April 1981



- 53 -
TABLE 3.1
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network by Type of Surface
(km)
A) Evolution of the Network 1976-1980
Type        1976         1977         1978        1979         1980
Paved       6,185        6,029        6,029       6,256        6,257
Gravel     12,269       11,866       11,866      12,534       12,536
Earthy/    16,835       14,606      14,605       14,911       14,916
Tracks     21,127       24,141       24,142      24,815       24,809
TOTAL      56,416       56,642       56,642      58,516       58,518
B) Classification of the Network in 1980
TZpe        Total        National       Departmental        Feeder
Paved       6,257          4,425            1,093              739
Gravel     12,536          6,997            2,840            2,699
Earth!/    14,916          3,120            5,156            6,640
Tracks     24,809            715            3,214           20,880
TOTAL      58,518         15,257           12,303           30,958
1/ The surface is either natural earth or covered with unclassified
material.
Source: MTC - Direccion General de Transporte Terrestre
December 1981



- 54 -                              Table 3.2
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Charges and Expenditures - 1976-80
(Million Soles)
1976        1977         1978         1979        1980
A. User Charges
Vehicle Registration,
taxes and licences    1,050       1,790        1,907(e)      2,024(e)    2,141
Import Duties              750      1,125(e)    7,000(e)    10,130(e)   13,265
Motor Fuel Taxes         6,284     10,240.9      8,956        20,242       30,,994
Motor Fuel VAT           1,233       2,210       2,038.8       2,131.2      1,795.3
Road Tolls                 178         355.5       810(e)      1,265,8      1,845.3
Totals                 9,495     15,721.4(e) 20,711.8(e)  35,793(e)   50,040.6
B.  Highway Expenditures       2,321       3,169        6,871.6     18,699.7    32,169.5
fe) Signifies estimated values when data not available.
Source: MTC - Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto, D.G.T.T.
Direccion General de Contribuciones
December 1981



PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MTC HIGHWAY EXPENDITURES: 1976-1981
Current Soles (Millions)
1978             1979             1980             1981
1.  Salaries and Overheads /                  218.4            257.5            418.1             807.0 (e)
Wages                                     165.0            211.6            334.4             685.6 (e)
Goods                                      15.2             18.4             20.9              31.5 (e)
Services                                   13.8             16.6             19.2              31.9 (e)
Transfers                                  24.4             10.9             43.5              58.0 (e)
2.  Studies                                   213.2            473.0            576.0 (e)         679.0
3.  Construction                            4,748.0         12,936.2         15,811.4         27,511.0
4.  Maintenance (Budget)b/                  1,692.0          5,033.0          9,499.0         15,956.0
5.  SEM equipment                             -                -              5,865.0         _,045.0
TOTAL                              6,871.6         18,699.7         32,169.5         51,998.0
(US$ million equivalent)             (43.96)          (83.11)         (114.9)          (130.0)
a/ Does not include MTC's non-highway directorateds and administration overheads.
bI Includes ORDE's and SEM
e/ Estimate based on budget figures
Source: MTC - Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto - DGTT and mission estimates
December 1981



PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
INP 1981-85 Transport Investment Plan
Surface Transport (US$ Million)
Total 1981-85
1981      1982        1983        1984        1985      Local      Foreign        Total
Preinvestment                   4.15      3.30        2.78        1.74        1.81       12.88         .90         13.78
Ongoing Projects              158.35    105.25      100.05      109.18      127.02      272.62      327.24        599.86
New Projects                 132.55    188.73       244.75      183.37      129.10      379.21      499.28        878.49
Road Paving                      .79      7.94        7.94        7.94        7.94       16.27       16.27         32.54
Olmos-Corral Quemado           15.90     27.83       23.86       11.93         -         38.36       41.16         79.52
Tarma Oxapampa                   -       14.40       25.20       21.60       10.80       35.71       36.29         72.00       1
Cruce Catacaos                  4.44       -           -           -           -          2.64        1.80          4.44       W
Huancayo Abancay                 -         -           -           -         13.23        6.61        6.62         13.23
San Alejandro-Pto. Bermudez   2.12       14.02       21.69       18.52        6.35       30.95       31.75         62.70
Satipo-Rio Puyemi               -          -           -         10.77       21.54       16.14       16.17         32.31
Juanjui-Pizana                  2.65     12.43       16.67       10.58         -         21.96       20.37         42.33
La Merced-Satipo                 .59      3.97       15.87       10.58        8.86       19.37       20.50         39.87
Panamerican Highway             3.17     11.38       14.02         -           -         13.49       15.08         28.57
Central Highway                 5.00       -           -           -           -          2.65        2.35          5.00
Corral Quemado-Tarapoto          -       26.46       46.56       39.68       19.84       67.46       65.08        132.54
Bridges                        11.67      7.94        7.93        7.93        7.94       15.87       27.54         43.41
Pisco Ayacucho                  6.13      7.14        8.73        2.91         -         12.21       12.70         24.91
Road Rehabilitation              .79      9.26        9.26        9.26        9.26       21.56       16.27         37.83
Villa Rica-Pto. Bermudez         -        5.29        6.88         -           -          6.09        6.08         12.17
Oyon-Ambo                        .05      5.29       15.87       18.52       13.23       26.50       26.46         52.96
Arequipa-Puno                    -        3.70        6.74       13.15       10.11       16.32       17.38         33.70
Other Marginal Hwy.             2.43       -           -           -           -          1.11        1.32          2.43
ENAFER                         76.29       -           -           -           -          4.29       72.00         76.29
Peru-Bolivia Rail                .53        .21        -           -           -           .74         -             .74       H
Caripa-Condorcocha               -        2.47        6.53         -           -          2.90        6.10          9.00
SEM Equipment                    _       29.00       11.00         -           -           -        40.00          40.00       0
295.05    297.28      347.58      294.29      257.93      664.71      827.42      1,492.13
Source: INP, Prices in 1981 dollars - 1US$ - 378 Soles
December 1981



PERU
EIGHTI HIGHWAY PROJECT
MTC Equipment Fleet 1978 & 1981
1978                                                 1981
For                                                  For
Vehicles     Working      Repair      Scrap     Total              Working      Repair      Scrap       Total
Dump trucks    179         161         531       871                 204         182         172         558
Others         179         156         358        693                189         160          93         442
Sub-Total      358         317         889     1,564                 393         342         265      1,000
Equipment.
Bulldozer        90        150         186        426                187         189          92         468
Grader           83        109         1ll        303                114         142          47         303
F.E. Loader     40          57          55        152                 78          61          29         168
Rollers          29         75          33        137                 57          78          33         168
Others         115         147         144        406                155         173          86         414
'Sub-Total      357         538         529     1,424                 591         643         287      1,521
Overall Totals 715         855       1,418      2,988                984         985         552       2,521
Scrap                                          1,418                                                     552
Total units Working or For Repair              1,570                                                   1,969
Source: SEM records
December 1981



- 58 -
TABLE 5.1
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Rehabilitation and Improvement Design Standards and Cost Estimates
Length     1980           Base -/   6       Surface Width      Shoulder       Principal Types
Road (Section)                             (km)      AADT        Cost (US$x10 )          and Type          Width            of Work
Rehabilitation
1.  Morococha-Oroya~2/                     44      1780/1404         10.20            7.20m - A.C.        0.75m         P/R, ID
2.  Piura-Paita 3/                         53      4405/691            7.20          6.60m - A.C.         1.20m         P/R. RG
3.  Talara-Cancas                           98          697           13.70           6.60m - A.C.        1.20m         P/R, RG, ID
Improvements
4.  Tarma-Pte. San Felix                   53                        17.40
(Tarma-Pte. Huayacnioc)A-             (25.7)      1600           (3.80)         (7.20m - A.C.)       (variable)    P/R, ID
(Pte. Huayacnioc-Pte. San Felix)    (27.3)         497          (13.60)         (6.00m - A.C.)        0.75m        P/C, S, ST, RW, ID
5.  La Merced-Villa Rica                   56                        11.40
(La Merced-Desvio Satipo)             (12.5)      (841)          (3.00)         (6.60m - A.C.)        1.20m        P/C, S, ST, RW, ID
(Desvio Satipo-Villa Rica)            (43.5)   (495/202)         (8.40)         (6.60m - S.T.)        0.75m        P/C, S, ST, RW, ID
6.  Chanohamavo-Satipo                    110        494/360          20.50           6.00m - S.T.        0.75m         P/C, S, ST, RG, RW,ID
7.  Access to Oxapampa ,                   44          113            6.00            SOOm - GR            -            P/C, S, ST, ID
8.  Rioja-Moyobamba-Tarapoto -            137                        12.50
(Rioja (km 481 - km 514)              (33)      (205/130)        (3.40)         (6.00m - S.T.)        0.75m        P/C, ST, ID
(km 514 - km 584)                     (70)        (130)          (4.60)         (7.50m-8.40m-GR)       -           PIR, ST, ID
(km 584 - (km 618) Tarapota)          (34)    (1686/190)         (4.50)         (6.00m - S.T.)        0.75m        P/C, ST, ID
1/   Does not include-contingencies
2/   Includes about 6 km of streee improvement through Oroya
3/   Includes about 7 km of Panamerican Highway between Piura and
road junction to Paita.
4/   Includes about 2.5 km of street improvement in Tarma
5/   Includes about 2 km of street improvement in Tarapota
LEGEND
Types of Improvement Works                  Surface Type
P/R   Pavement Reconstruction              A.C.  Asphalt Concrete
P/C   Pavement New Construction             S.T.  Surface Treatment
S     New Structures                        GR    Gravel
ST    Stabilization of Slopes
RG    Raise Grade
RW    River Protection Work
ID    Improve Drainage
Source: Mission estimates
December 1981



-- 59 -
TABLE 5.2
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tentative List and Cost Estimate of Maintenance Equipment
(October 1981 Prices)
A. Equipment Overhaul Program (Second Phase)
Thousands of US Dollars
Spare parts         Contracted Labor
129 Trucks                             1,330                  125
146 Equipment Units                    2,795                  430
4,125                  555
(Foreign Exchange 91%)           (3,750)
B. New Maintenance Equipment                  Thousands of US Dollars
Cost/Unit              Total Cost
50 Dump Trucks                           35.0                  1,750
50 Pick-up Trucks                        10.0                    500
30 Asphalt Kettles                        5.0                    150
30 Vibratory Rollers (Pedestrian)         4.5                    135
30 Plate Compactors                       3.0                     90
2,625
Spare Parts                                                   375
Total under Program                                      3,000
Source: SEM, Consultants and Mission
October 1981



- 60 -
TABLE 5.3
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
Latin America
End of     Annual      Cumulative      (2) as %      Highway Projects
F.Y.       (1)           (2)           Total            % Total
1982        0             0              0                  0
1983      18.30         18.30          19.7                18
1984      32.40         50.70          54.5                36
1985      31.20         81.90          88.1                58
1986      11.10         93.00         100.0                77
Source: Mission estimates
Assumptions concerning implementation delays
1)  Start of all civil works delayed by 2 months plus 1 month additional
slippage for each quarter after the start of the project.
2)  Duration of civil works would overrun by about 25%.
3)  25% of civil works expenditures (10%+15% contingency) would occur
during contract overruns.
4)  Disbursements would lag expenditures by 3 months.
December 1981



PERU
EIGHT HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Year         1981         1982    1   1983          1984         1985
Quarter  1 2 3. 4 1- 20j3  41.421 22 3aj4a 1a 2 3214E,1  2 30 40
-            -t--  -!--- . -  -l ~--t 
Civil Works                                                                                 I               I       -
Engineering design                                                                  A R       R&S. 
Design review and construction supervision                              4                                 - t    -  -
Bidding and construction:-Contrac- Group I   (3-contracts)                            _  B4 I-___C__i
-Contrac- Group II  (2-contracts)                       :                 -     C                     ;
-Contract Group III (3-contracts)                                B             IC
-Contract Group IV  (4-contracts)                                                - C
Improve Equipment Availability         G       I   (                                          j            -
Procurement of spare parts                                                                    D 
Contract services for equipment overhaul
Improving and equipping workshops                                                      B          D                      I
Procurement of maintenance equipment
Improve Highway Administration
Contracted specialists for in-line positions                                        i-I  -4-i        -       i
Training program                                                            i      I        -4_ |  i         +
Vehicle weight control technical assistance
Planning assistance to MTC
Transport Sector Assistance                                                I                      I
Selva central development study                                                       -    i-rt  I         I
Coastal corridor operations study
Feeder road financing institutional study                                |       -                          I j
A - Consultant Selection
Source:  DCC, consultants and mission                LEGEND:   R - Design Review                       B  - Bidding and Award
S - Construction Supervision          C  - Civil Works
December 1981                                                   p - Prequalification                   D  - Delivery Period
401



- 62 -
TABLE 6.1
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Projected Expenditures for Road Maintenance
(in millions of U.S. Dollars at October 1981 prices)
1982          1983          1984
ROAD MAINTENANCE TOTAL                 38.93          44.84         51.44
MTC Operations Total                   26.43          29.84         33.94
Administration                          4.97           5.79          6.58
Road Maintenance                      3.78          4.55           5.33
Workshops                             1.19           1.24          1.25
Direct Costs
Labor                                 6.30           7.17          8.10
Road Maintenance                    4.42          5.09           6 01
Mechanical                          1.88           2.08          2:09
Materials and Supplies               15.16         16.88          19.26
Road Maintenance                    0.86          1.03           1.21
Spare Parts                         9.44         10.30          11.63
P.O.L.                              4.86          5.55           6.42
Contracted Periodic Maintenance        12.50         15.00          17.50
INVESTMENT BUDGET                      19.37         19.53          16.05
Equipment Renewal                    10.30         10.90          11.80
Equipment Additional                  2.70          2.50           2.50
Equipment Overhaul                    2.80          1.90           1.00
Spare Parts Stocks                    2.00          2.00            -
Workshop Improvements                 1.00           1.50          0.50
Technical Assistance                  0.20          0.15            -
Training Program                      0.37          0.58           0.25
Bank Financed                         6.08           3.07          0.51
Government Financed                  13.29         16.46          15.54
Source: Mission Estimates
October 1981



- 63 -
TABLE 6-.2
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training Program - Cost Estimate
Thousands of US dollars (equivalent)
Description                                Local      Foreign     Total
Technical Assistance:
3 - Specialists (24 months)                     72         468        540
5 - Instructors (24 months)!!                  120          -         120
Scholarships                                    -           75          75
Sub-Total                                   192         543        735
Physical Training Facilities
Civil Works                                    105          45        150
Workshop Equipment and Tools                    18         182         200
Spare parts (from MTC stocks)                   -           -          _
Sub-Total                                   123         227        350
Field Training Support
Staff & Trainee Transport Vehicles (8)          10         100        110
Maintenance Equipment (from MTC fleet)          -           -          -
Sub-Total                                    10         100        110
Total                                       325         870      1,195
I/ In addition to MTC counterpart staff
Source: Mission estimates
October 1981



- 64 -                                      Table 6.3
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on Project Roads 1980 and Traffic Growth
Road              Average Daily    Light   % Yearly             % Yearly             % Yearly
Section            Traffic (AADT)  Vehicles  Growth   Buses   Growth   Trucks    Growth
ROAD REHABILITATION
Talara Cancas                     697             462       3         70     3         165         3
Piura Paita
km 1-7                        4,405           3,546       2.5     145      2.5       714         4
km 7-53                         691             538       2.5      19      2.5       134         4
Morococha-La Oroya
Morococha-Dv. Pachachaca    1,625               680      5.2      223      5.2       722         5.2
Dv. Pachachaca-Parad. Sacco 1,780               742      5.2      253      5.2       785         5.2
Parad. Sacco-Dv. Huancayo   1,876               807      5.2      273      5.2       796         5.2
Dv. Huancayo-Dv. Tarma        1,404             565      4.9      165      4.9       674         4.9
ROAD IMPROVEMENTS
Tarma-Oxapampa
Palca-San Ramon                 497             173       5        34      5         290         6
San Ramon-La Merced           1,889          1,343       4.6       82      4.5       464         4.8
La Merced-Dv. Satipo            841             452      5.1       48      5         341         5
Dv. Satipo-San Luis             495             308      5.2       18      5.2       169         5.1
San Luis-Pta. Paucartambo       296            155       5.4       19      5.1       122         5.2
Pte. Paucartambo-Oxapampa       113              59      5.1        6      4.7        48         4.9
Pte. Paucartambo-Villa Rica   202              106       5.2       14      4.9        82         5.4
La Merced-Satipo
Chanchamayo-K; 60               494             220      5         30      5         244         5
am 60-Satipo                    360             162      5         22      5         176         5
larapoto-Rioja
Tarapoto-Morales              1,686          1,535       5         15      5         136         6
Morales-Dv. Lamas             1,042             917      5         13      5         112         6
Dv. Lamas-Pta. Bolivia          190            102       5          9      5          79         6
Pta. Bolivia-Moyobamba          130              59      5          4      5          67         6
Moyobamba-Rioja                 205             128      6          9      6          68         8
Source: MTC Estudios Economicos, Consultants, Mission Estimates
October 1981



PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
(January 1981 Soles/per thousand vehicle kin)
Basic Econoinic Costs for Straight Level. Roads
PVdsenger Cair             Small Truck                 Mediun Bus                     Large Bus
Paved   Gravel   Earth   Paved  Gravel   Earth    Paved   Gravel   Earth    Paved    Gravel   Earth
buel             9,599  11,615  13,825   14,844 17,367  19,788    28,497  36,058   49,973   30,965   42,421    -
Lubricant        0,866   1,039   1,386    1,039  1,472   1,992        2,016   2,735    4,009    2,055    2,795    -
'tires           0,599   1,163   2,009    0,916  1,622   3,108        6,020  13,229   30,619    7,210   16,169    -
Depreciation    5,966   8,840  13,710    7,628 11,290  17,512    26,568  46,712   78,719   30,055   52,843    -
Maintenance      2,985   3J738   5,242    4,246  5,513   8,242    27,146  40,674   81,246   48,286   75,465    -
Subtotal        20,015  26,395  36,172   28,673 37,264  50,642    90,247 139,408  244,566  118,571  189,693    -
Insurance        5,080   6,470   8,741    7,355  9,678  13,134    23,979  36,891   53,286   28,359   43,302    -
Lnterest        5,419   7,130   9,677    6,922  9,107  12,360    14,287  21,981   31,750   16,163   24,866    -
Depreciation    2,938   4,420   6,855    3,814  5,645   8,756          -        -         -         -         -        -
Salaries           -       -        -        -       -        -      15,600  24,000   34,667   15,600   24,000    -
General Exp.       -       -        -         -      -        -       4,425   6,346   10,056    4,525    6,346    -
Subtotal        13,437  18,020  2         18,091 24,430  34,250    58,291  89,218  129,759   64,647   98,514    -
TOTAIL          33,452  44,415  61,445   46,764 61,694  84,892   148,538 228,626  374,325  183,218  288,207    -
Large Trucks                     Semitrailer                       Medium Trucks
Paved      Gravel      Earth       Paved      Gravel      Earth      Paved      Gravel      Earth
Fuel                    30,588      43,436      58,375      24,471    34,748       -         29,731    37,633       52,166
Lubricant                2,735       3,430       4,820       4,851     5,755       -          2,016      2,735       4,009
Tires                    4,970      15,119      36,958       6,426    20,019        -         6,020    13,229       28,048
Depreciation            40,306      75,238    150,476       52,767    95,763       -         26,826    43,800        71,740
Maintenance             24,585      39,577      71,451      17,548    28,214        -        22,386    34,801       57,788
Subtotal               103,184    176,800    322,080    106,063   184,499          -         86,979   132,198    213,551
Insurance               33,675      53,880      89,800     41,323    64,289        -         27,304    39,006       54,608
Interest                18,966      30,346      50,577     24,830    38,624        -         14,427    20,610       28,854
Depreciation              -           -           -           -                          -                -           -
Salaries                17,250      27,600      46,000      19,714    30,667       -         27,600    39,429       55,200
(General ExpCOSeS      -_ 3,232      5,71    _9519   _    3,694         5,T46      -           5,17]. _7,388        11,423 X
~ubtta                 ~73,123    116,99      1952896      89,561   139,           -         74,502   106,433    150,085 ~
TOTAL                  176,307    293,797    517,976    195,624   323,825          -        161,481   23&,631    363,636   X
Soturce:  HTC Estudios Ecotnomicos
October 1981



PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Costs and Benefits for Roads To Be Rehabilitated
Talara    Piura        Morococha      Dv. Pachachaca    Parad. Sacco   La Oroya
Road Section         Cancas    Paita    Dv. Pachachaca    Parad. Sacco          La Oroya      Av. Tarma
1982 1/               -        -            -514             -238             -246           -112
1983 TI            -824       -433         -1028             -476             -493           -224
1984 Ti           -2267      -1191          -171              -79              -82            -38
1984                  -        -            1022              319              331             76
1985 1/           -1031       -542          1074              335              347             79
1986                1468      1080          1129              352              365             82
1987               1512       1118          1186              370              383             86
1988                1555      1157          1248              389              402             90
1989                1600      1198          1309              409              421             94
1990               1647       1240          1376              430              442             98                    a
1991               1695       1283          1445              452              464            103
1992                1744      1328          1518              475              487            107
1993               1795       1374          1596              499              511            112
1994                1846      1422          798               365              378            172
1995               1900       1472           -
1996               1896        996
1/ Construction costs are shown with negative sign.
Source: fTC, Oficina do Estudios Economicoe, Misslon Estimte.
Dece b r 1981



PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Area and Population of the Selva Central
Cultivated
Cultivated        Area
Districts                                           Cultivated    Number of       Area per       Area per         Per
Provinces                   Population    Area         Area        Producers    Inhabitant    Inhabitant    Producer
SELVA CENTRAL                           227,324   9r510,000    62,894        11,821        41,35             0.28          5.32
1.  Prov. Chanchamayo                    ;W,679      450,000    27,863          4,019         6,026           0.37          6.93
La Merced                            57,999      349,000    21,960         2,760         6,017            0.38          7.95
San Ram6n                            12,905      46,750      4,661           858         3,623           0.36           5.43
Vitoc                                 3,775       54,250     1,242            401       14,371            0.33          3.10
2.  Prov. Satipo                         60,792   1,825,000    220              3,462        30,020           0.37          6.41
Satipo                               16,646      105,250     3,915            628        6,323            0.24          6.25
Coviriali                             4,893       11,875     1,726            294        2,427            0.35          5.87
Llaylla                               3,093       67,250     1,820            268       21,743            0.59          6.79
Mazamari                              6,810       42,500     1,864            263         6,241           0.27          7.09
Pampa Hermosa                         3,469       25,500     1,268            292         7,351           0.37          4.34
San Martin de Pangoa                 12,077     448,000      6,694           923        37,095           0.55           7.25
Rio Negro                             7,557       47,000     4,623            694        6,219            0.61          6.66   Z
Rio Tambo                             6,244   1,077,625         292           100      172,586            0.05          2.92
3.  Prov. Oxapampa                       50,202   1,620,000       8,555         2,567        32,270           0.17          3.33
Oxapampa                             13,167       45,000     1,543            474        3,418            ).12          3.36
Villa Rica                           12,773       78,750     4,049            419        6,165            0.32          9.66
Pozuzo                                5,137      118,750        789         1,078       23,117            0.15          0.73
Chontabamba                           2,329       37,500       529            171       16,101            0.23          3.09
Huancabamba                           7,184      175,000        737           215       14,360            0.10          3.43
Puerto Bermndez                       9,612   1,165,000        908            210      121,203           0.09          4.32
4.  Prov. Pachitea                        7,857      955,000        896           624       121,548           (.11          3.24
Honoria                               4,297      475,000        678           209      110,542            0.14          2.95
Puerto Inca                           3,560      480,000       278           415       134,831            0.08          0.67
5.  Prov. Crnel. Portillo                33,794   4,670,000       3,378         1,149       138,190           0.10          2.94
Iparia                                7,663   1,150,000        494           115       150,072           0.06          4.30
Masisea                               9,159   1,100,000         811           602      120,100            0.09          1.35
Raymondi                             11,464   1,740,000      1,460            278      151,779            0.13          5.25
Tahuania                              5,508      680,000        613           154      123,457            0.11          3.98
Source:  Estudio de Transportes para la Selva Central, Prefectibilidad
October 1981



PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Principal Crops in the Selva Central
1975
CULTIVATED                            VALUE OF
'AREA A         PRODUCTION        THE PRODUCTION       AVERAGE YIELDS
TOTAL    SELVA       TOTAL     SELVA    TOTAL    SELVA                     SELVA
PRODUCTS            - PERU    CENTRAL-    PERU     CENTRAL   PERU    CENTRAL-      PERU        CENTRAL          a
o0
Coffee                128,547   46,871      65,367    18,472   1,648.5   596.5         0.542       0.500
(35.5 %)             (28.3 %)            (36.2 %)
Oranges                17,080    3,751    177,472    48,452       796.8   100.8       11.4      12.0 - 13.0
(22.0 %)             (27.3 %)            (12.7 %)
123,542    6,350    707,720   116,838   2,193.4   330.3        11.6     14.0 - 15.0
Bananas                          (16.5 %)            (16.5 %)              (15.1 %)
avocado                 9,696    2,820      69,953    24,859      449.1    92.5        7.9      8.0 - 10.0
(29.1 %)             (35.5 %)            (20.6 %)
8,920      854     66,537    16,720      214.8    43.6       15.6      12.0 - 16.0
Papaya                           (9.6 % )              (25.2 %)           (20.3 %)
Note:  The percentages refer to the share of Selva Central in the country total for each product.
SOURCE:  Direcci6n General de informgtica y Estadfstca (Celulas para Anuario EstadfsticO 1975 -
Ministerio de Alimentacz.6n).
October 1981



PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Costs and Benefits for Roads in the Selva Central and Alto Mayo
Soles (Million)
Road    Tarapoto   Dv. Lamas P. Bolivia Moyobamba  Palca   S. Ramon    La Merced Dv. Satipo Paucartambo  Paucartambo  Chanchamayo   Km 46
Section  Dv. Lamas P. Bolivia Moyobamba    Rioia   S. Ramon La Merced  Dv. Satipo Paucartambo Oxapampa                Villa Rica       Km, 46     Satipo
1982          -          -          -            -        -794       -99          -          -           -               -               -          -
1983       -318       -362       -1116         -314      -2383      -296        -375        -267        -320            -401           -1048      -1618
1984 1/    -318       -362       -1116         -315      -2118      -263        -749        -535        -640            -803           -1198      -3236
1985 1!      478        434        1359         325       2811       528        -375        -267        -320            -401            -748      -1'18
1986         510        466        1461         349       2974       555        1429          540         269            454            2161       2175
1987         544        500        1570         375       3147       583        1507         570          283            478            2269       2283
1988         579        536        1688         402       3329       613        1588         603          297            503            2383       2398
1989         618        575        1815         431       3522       644        1674         636          313            530            2502       2517
1990         658        617        1951         463       3727       677        1764         672          329            558            2627       2643
1991         702        663        2097         497       3943       712        1859          710         346            588            2750       2775
1992         748        711        2255         533       4171       748        1960          749         364            619            2896       2914
1993         798        763        2423         572       4413       786        2065          791         383            651            3041       3060
1994         850        819        2606         613       4669       826        2177         835          403            686            3192       3212
1995         293        333        1026         290       2436       3(2        2295          882         424             722           3353       3374
1996          -          -          -           -           -         -          689          492         589            738            1377       2978
1/ Construction costs are shown with negative sign.
Source:  MTC, Estudios Economicos, Mission Estimates
December 1981



- 70 -                                       TABLE 7.4
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
First
25% Decrease      15% Increase        Year
Best Estimate            in Benefits         in Costs           Return
Road Rehabilitation
Talara Cancas                    28                       22                 25              28
Piura Paita                      38                        30                34              39
Morococha-La Oroya
Morococha-Dv. Pachachaca       57                       44                 50              51
Dv. Pachachaca-Parad. Sacco  40                         31                 35              35
Parad. Sacco-La Oroya          40                       31                 35              35
La Oroya-Dv. Tarma             20                       14                17               17
Road Improvements
Tarma-Oxapampa
Palca-San Ramon                43                       39                 35              43
San Ramon-La Merced            58                       47                53               65
La Merced-Dv. Satipo           61                       50                 55              74
Dv. Satipo-Pta. Paucartambo  39                         31                 35              39
Pta. Paucartambo-Oxapampa    18                         13                 16              16
Pta. Paucartambo-Villa Rica  24                         18                 21              22
La Merced-Satipo
Chanchamayo-km 46              48                       40                44              55
km 46-Satipo                   26                       20                23               26
Tarapoto-Rioja
Tarapoto-Dv. Lamas             63                       50                56              62
Dv. Lamas-Pta. Bolivia         53                       42                 48              50
Pta. Bolivia-Moyobamba         54                       43                48               51
Moyobamba-Rioja                48                       38                 43              43
Source: Mission Estimates
December 1981



- 71 -
ANNEX 1
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Other Transport Loans
1.        Two port loans (Loan 57-PE, US$2.5 million in 1952 and Loan 208-PE,
US$6.575 million in 1958) were made for expansion of the port of Callao.
Although delays were encountered because of difficulties with contractors,
the projects were completed satisfactorily. Two further port loans were
made (Loan 373-PE, US$3.1 million, in 1964 and Loan 446-PE, US$9.1 million
in 1966) for the ports of Paita and Pisco respectively. Both projects have
been completed successfully. See Project Performance Audit Report Sec M 75-567,
August 1, 1975, for Loan 446-PE.
2.        For railways, two loans (Loan 190-PE, US$15 million in 1958, and
Loan 334-PE, US$13.25 million in 1963) were made to the Peruvian Corporation
(PC), a private company which owned and operated the country's most important
railways. The first loan was canceled by mutual agreement before it became
effective; the second was successful from both the physical and the economic
points of view. In 1972, the Government purchased PC's assets in Peru and
created ENAFER to manage the railways.
3.        The latest loan (Loan 1963-PE, US$58 million) was approved by the
Board of Directors in March 1981. This loan is for the upgrading of three
airports (Huanuco, Pucallpa and Tarapoto) and for a new airport at Tingo
Maria. It also includes installation of navigational aids and communications
systems throughout Peru and other equipment for the borrower, CORPAC, as well
as final engineering for a new airport at Cuzco and technical assistance.
September 1981



- 72 -                                _ NEX 2
Ta.ze 1
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Plan of Action
I.  Improving Highway Administration                             Target Dates
1. Engage five key management staff for DGC.                 January 31, 1982
2. Classify network establishing executive responsi-
bilities for each road class.                            February 15, 1982
3. Prepare Policy Statement defining ambit of DGC's
authority and its degree of autonomy, including
the role, authority and autonomy delegated to
highway regions and departments.                         February 28, 1982
4. Prepare Policy Statement defining the scope of
DGC's in-house engineering operations and the
limits of force account works (including mainten-
ance).                                                   April 15, 1982
5. Engage 12 senior engineers or specialists to
strengthen DGC's operations.                             April 30, 1982
6. Detail the organization, technical staff and
equipment requirements for managing and executing
the annual highway programs.                             May 31, 1932
7. Prepare quarterly reports regarding engineering
and technical staffing strength and equipment in-        Starting
ventory (see monitoring indicators).                     June 30, 1982
8. Prepare recommendations concerning improvement
in procedures for road construction tendering
and administration.                                      September 30, 1982
9. Recommend adequate personnel grade classifications
and salary levels for permanent staff in DGC and
SEN.                                                     June 30, 1983
10.. Put into effect a revised grade classifications and
salary structure.                                        January 1, 1984
II. Improving Road Maintenance Management
11. Establish list of road sections, for maintenance
control, in each department and region.                   May 31, 1982
12. Establish routine maintenance targets for each
road section by frequency of principle work
category (i.e. surface repair, roadside maintenance,
drainage maintenance and structure maintenance).          May 31, 19I82



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
13, Establish contracted periodic maintenance targets
(kilometers of resealing or regravelling) in each
department.                                                May 31, 1982
14. Prepare corresponding budget requirement for main-
tenance showing estimated Administration, Labor,
P.O.L., spare parts and materials costs, as well as
estimated costs for contracted maintenance.                June 30, 1982
15-, Prepare quarterly reports of paved and unpaved
road kilometers maintained (by principal work              Starting
categories) in each department and region.                 June 30, 1982
16. Prepare annual expenditure statements by region            April 15, 1983
for maintenance, administration, labor, P.O.L.,           and annually
materials and contracted maintenance work.                thereafter.
III. Improving Equipment Management
17. Prepare Policy Statement defining organization and
responsibilities for equipment management (alloca-
tion, maintenance, repair and costing).                   March 15, 1982
18. Define equipment and vehicle allocation (by prin-
cipal equipment categories) to regions and depart-
ments and update quarterly thereafter.                    April 30, 1982
19. Define workshop space, staff and service vehicle
requirements and deficiencies, reporting quarterly
on remaining deficiencies.                                April 30, 1982
20. Define maximum/minimum fast moving spare parts
stocking requirements. and estimate annual value
of such parts needed to support M1TC's equipment
operations.                                               June 30, 1982
21. Place orders to obtain maximum fast moving
spare parts stocks.                                       September 30, 1982
22. Prepare quarterly reports on equipment overhaul
program (see project monitoring indicators).
23. Prepare quarterly reports on spare parts purchased
centrally and in the regions, showing separately          Starting
those financed by the Bank.                               June 30, 1982



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
IV. Project Implementation Timetable - Key Dates
(Refer to Implementation Schedule - Table 5.4)
Contract            Contract       Contract
A. Civil Works                       Group I          Groups II & III   Group IV
24. Request consultants to pre-
qualify                       Dec. 28, 1981   Dec. 28, 1981       Dec. 28, 1981
25. Request prequalified con-
sultant's proposals for
design review and construc-
tion supervision              Feb. 15, 1982   March 15, 1982    May 1, 1982
26. Contract (above)
consultants                   April 30, 1982  May 31, 1982        July 15, 1981
27. Prequalify contractors        May 10, 1982    May 10, 1982        May 10, 1982
28. Contract road works           Aug. 31, 1982   Oct.15, 1982        Nov. 30, 1982
Target Dates
B. Improve Equipment Availability
29. Place orders for spare parts for vehicle over-
haul.                                                April 30, 1982
30. Place order for spare parts for equipment over-
haul.                                                May 31, 1982
31. Initiate contracting additional services.            January 1, 1982
32. Complete overhaul of 30 vehicles                     August 31, 1982
"    "  75 vehicles                    November 30, 1982
"   "    " 129 vehicles                April 30, 1983
"   "    "  20 units of equipment      September 30, 1982
80   "   "      "              January 31, 1983
"   "    " 146   "   "   "             June 30, 1983
33. Invite bids for additional maintenance equip-
ment.                                                March 31, 1982
34. Complete plans and cost.estimates for proposed
workshop improvements.                               June 30, 1982
35. Complete list of proposed workshop tool/plant
requirements .                                       July 30, 1982
36. Initiate workshop improvements.                       September 30, 1982
37. Place orders for workshop tools/plant.                November 30, 1982



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
C. Training Program
38.  Appoint chief of training.                          January 15, 1982
39. Complete preparation of training action
program.                                           February 28, 1982
40. Contract training staff and appoint counterpart
staff.                                             April 30, 1982
41.  Initiate training action program.                   April 30, 1982
42. Prepare medium-term training program, estimating
requirements for facilities and equipment.         June 30, 1982
D. Technical Assistance and Studies
Complete Terms       Request Consultant's    Contract
Description                of Reference             Proposals          Consultants
Selva Central integrated
development study              Dec. 15, 1981        January 15, 1982         Apr. 15, 1982
Coastal Corridor operations
study                          Feb. 28, 1982        March 31, 1982           June 30, 1982
Vehicle weiglht control
study and assistance           May 31, 1982          June 30, 1982           Sept. 30, 1982
Feeder road institutional
requirement study              April 15, 1983        March 31, 1983          June 30, 1983
January 1982



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the Feasibility Study of the Selva Central
1.   Historical background and present situation:
(a) land tenure and land titling, including canastral mapping
and certification of ownership for settlers and native
communities;
(b) crop-livestock-forest production in terms of area and yields
per unit area;
(c) potential yields and major productivity problems based on
farmer experience and research results;
(d) amounts of agricultural credit by crops and livestock
production lines;
(e)  institutional support for credit, extension and research in
terms of facilities, staff, budget;
(f)  marketing facilities for storage, processing and transportation;
and
(g) social infrastructure for education, health, water supply
and sanitation.
2.   Project Definition:
(a) Definition of the specific geographic area where continuing
production of crops, livestock and forestry can be maintained,
and detailed mapping through forest inventory, evaluation of
soils, cadaster and topographic studies. Basic studies of
this nature would also cover the Tambo-Ene area which would
potentially be the location of a second stage project in the
Selva Central.
(b) Feeder roads. Identification of sites for construction of
new roads and improvement of existing roads; extent, design
criteria and cost estimates;
(c) Credit. Proposed investments in land clearing and preparation,
establishment of tropical fruits and other permanent crops,
farm machinery, pastures, fencing and corrals;
(d) Institution-building and support. Proposed programs and
investments in applied research, extension, credit, marketing
and supply of improved seeds, rootstocks, fertilizers and other
inputs;



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(e) Proposed organizational structure for project implementation;
(f) Definition of the extent to which the project area would
include native communities and what special services would be
provided for such communities;
(g) Environmental protection;
(h) Other aspects essential to success of a project to be focused
primarily on increased production on a continuing basis;
(i) Execution timetable;
(j) Consolidated cost estimate; and
(k) Benefits and justification.
The above studies can be prepared as individual annexes and later
attached to the full feasibility report.
September 1981



- 78 -                                ANNEX 4
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHIAY PROJECT
MARITIME TRANSPORT ADVISORY SERVICES
Outline Terms of Reference
The purpose of the Services is to provide traffic projections for
feasibility studies in the ports of Callao and Matarani, determine the best
future role for domestic coastal shipping in Peru and assist in the formulation
of plans and measures supporting the development of coastal shipping services
and of intermodal transport of containers.
To this end, the Services shall provide:
(a) forecast of maritime imports and exports for Peru for the period 1984 to
1995 by major product category, by cargo handling type and by port, taking
into account trends in the Peruvian economy and developments in inter-
national shipping services and trade;
(b) estimates of future demand for transport in the Coastal Corridor of Peru
in the period 1984 to 1995 by major product category, by cargo handling
type and by main origins and destinations, taking into account the
international traffic forecasts under (a) aDove and domestic traffic;
(c) assessment of current transport services for major coastal inter-city commoditv
movements, identifying inefficiencies and potential and documentation of means to
improve their efficiency by investigating the possibility of consolidation
and unitization of cargoes with a view to achieve better truck utilization
and, where appropriate, develop intermodal services;
(d) allocations of forecast traffic in the Coastal Corridor by mode, i.e., to
road or coastal shipping, under various conditions and service levels;
(e) assessments of capacity constraints, regulatory or institutional problems
and transport user attitudes in relation to the use of road transport and
coastal shipping in the Coastal Corridor;
(f) determination of the corresponding needs of road and intermodal freight
consolidation services and facilities, making a preliminary assessment of
their economic and financial feasibility, and proposing an integrated system
of services to the trucking industry, in particular to the owner-operators,
as an alternative to regulation; and
(g) advice on operational, institutional pricing and regulatory changes
required to encourage:
(i) the effective use of coastal shipping, and
(ii) the inland movement of containers within Peru.
October 1981



- 79 -
ANNEX 5
Page I
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Internal Auditing and Accounting Procedures
I. Budgetary System
1.        The Budget of the State comprises two parts:  the recurrent budget
and the capital budget; both are approved simultaneously by Congress. The
law approving the budget is very detailed; for the capital budget, it lists
specifically each heading and subheading, and identifies each investment.
The Peruvian system does not make a distinction between multi-annual commitment
authorizations and annual payment authorizations; budgetary allocations are
based on annual estimated progress of work and payments due during the year.
For each investment, the capital budget specifies the source of financing
(Tesoro Publico, Endeudamiento Interno, Endeudamiento Externo). While the
law approves the total cost of each investment, regardless of its particular
financing, funds actually made available to the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC) correspond only to that part of the investment to be
financed by Government own funds (Tesoro Publico). Therefore, although the
system calls for total budgetary allocations, a delay in external financing
for a particular project item may create a cash flow problem and, in turn,
delay payment to contractors; hence the need for the Working Fund referred
to in paragraph 5.22. The law provides for great flexibility in transferring
budget allocations from one heading or subheading to another; this is done
by Ministerial Resolution. However, the authority of the Ministers to
transfer allocations within their authorized budget is said to be disputed
by the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
II. Internal Accounting
A. General
2.        Accounting principles and practices applied in Peru are by and
large those generally accepted in the US; they have been developed by a
combination of Government regulations and self-regulatory practices adopted
by the profession, in particular by the Colegio de Contadores Publicos.
However, these principles and practices bear little relevance to the books
kept by MTC, which record administrative single-entry accounts, on a cash
basis.
3.        The organization of MTC separates the operating, accounting and
treasury functions, with contracting arrangements and control of invoices
carried out by the Technical Departments: recording, including establishment
of vouchers and preparation of checks, performed by the Accounting Department;
and disbursement of funds instructed by the Treasury Department. The
division of responsibility and the internal control system are considered
adequate.



- 80 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 2
B.   MTC
4.        The accounting system of MTC is old fashioned, cumbersome, mostly
handwritten, and meticulously kept and controlled; it could easily be
streamlined through the use of simple accounting machines which would prevent
the present duplication of entries and, hence, a risk of error. Nevertheless,
the system works without undue delay, and spot checks made in relation to
project items under a previous Bank-financed transportation loan (Loan 1196-PE)
confirmed the accuracy and accountability of the entries. The system as
presently applied is described hereafter.
5.        There are three sets of accounts, namely:
(a) Budgetary Accounts (Contabilidad Presupuestal)
At the beginning of each fiscal year, an accounts sheet is
opened for each investment (corresponding to a subheading)
provided for in the capital budget. The accounts are kept
on an annual basis, thus reflecting the budgetary system;
tracing the total cost of a project item carried out over
more than one fiscal year requires compilation of many annual
sheets and/or investigation into the patrimonial accounts
(para 5(c) following);
(b) Current Accounts (Contabilidad de Cuentas Corrientes)
A set of three sheets is kept for each contract, as follows:
(i) A first sheet records, in soles, the original amount of
the contract, variation orders, price adjustments,
payments, retention monies, etc.;
(ii) A second sheet records the same operations, in US$, for
the Bank's share, using the various exchange rates applied
by the Bank for its disbursements;
(iii) A third sheet repeats the same entries, in soles, for the
Government's share, with the equivalent in US$.
Thus it is possible to identify, on a permanent basis, the estimated total cost,
total payments made, and the Bank's contribution for each investment. The
sheets are handwritten because their size does not allow using the existing
machine.
(c) Patrimonial Accounts (Contabilidad Patrimonial)
These accounts register the full cost of each investment by
totaling the annual expenses incurred, including variation
orders, price adjustment, etc.



-81 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 3
6.        The system described in paragraph 5 has been applied to transactions
related to previous Bank-financed highway projects which have been carried
out fully by contractors. It is assumed that the same procedure will apply
for the execution of the civil works included in the proposed project.
However, should some project items be carried out by own forces in the Regions
or ORDEs, there would be no difficulty in using the existing accounting system
which would record expenditure through monthly "Balances de Comprobacion."
Using this procedure, entries would be recorded a posteriori in the central
accounts of MTC within 45 days of the end of the period considered; such delay
is acceptable. One possible exception to the accountability of expenditure
incurred by force account execution is the cost of mechanical equipment
provided by SEM. The matter is presently being studied by Bank-financed
consultants who are to recommend hourly tariffs per type of equipment, and a
settlement is expected before the remote possibility of Bank-financed road
work by own forces occurs.
7.        IDB reviewed MTC's accounting system in relation to the accounting
requirements of its own projects; agreement was reached between the Government
and IDB which provided for maintaining the present accounting system, with
entries related to IDB-financed projects being recopied in separate ledgers,
so that IDB project-related transactions could be isolated from other operations,
allowing immediate identification of project costs and use of IDB funds. It
is felt that the establishment of such a subsystem is not required in relation
to the proposed project, and that the necessary information on project cost
and use of Bank funds can be obtained through the financial reports dealt
with in paragraph 8.
III. Financial Reporting Requirements
8.        A tentative format of financial reports was prepared as a basis for
discussion with the financial department of MTC. Such reports (together with
the statements from Banco de la Nacion on the Working Fund) would meet the
requirements of the Bank regarding the monitoring of (a) expenditure on
project components, (b) counterpart funds provided, and (c) Bank disbursements.
MTC could easily provide such reports quarterly, and within 30 days of the end
of the quarter. Should some project items be carried out by own forces by
the Regions or ORDEs, the quarterly reports would be produced within 45 days;
such delay is still reasonable. The last quarterly report of the fiscal year
would be audited as discussed in paragraph 14.
IV. Audit
A. General
9.        Persons entitled to conduct audits must have the professional degree
of Public Accountant issued by a Peruvian University or by universities in
countries having reciprocal agreement with Peru. They must be registered
with the Colegio de Contadores Publicos, which governs the accounting and
auditing practice. Notwithstanding these safeguards, it is commonly
acknowledged that individuals and firms of doubtful professional reputation
are practicing audit in Lima.



- 82 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
10.       For the public and parastatal sector, auditors and audit firms must
be selected by the Contraloria General de la Republica (paras 12-14 following).
The selection is extended for one particular assignment and for one year;
it can be renewed annually up to three years; extension beyond this period
is seldom granted. This unusual procedure causes substantial delays. 1/
Contraloria has sometimes made an unfortunate choice in selecting auditors.
To avoid embarrassment, IDB has prepared a list of about 20 firms with
resident staff in Peru which are acceptable for purposes of auditing IDB-
financed projects; Contraloria then selects a firm out of the short list.
A great number of audit firms of international repute have offices in Lima,
usually associated with a Peruvian firm. Their relationship with Contraloria
is reportedly sometimes strained.
B.   Auditoria
11.       The internal audit of MTC's activities is carried out by the
Inspectoria. The Inspectoria reports directly to the Minister (and
simultaneously to the Contraloria General); it acts independently from the
support and in-line departments. Within the Inspectoria, the Auditoria is
more particularly responsible for the a posteriori control of MJC's accounts.
This is carried out on a permanent basis, and the entries on the accounts
sheets are initialed by the controlling auditor. The audit covers a wide
variety of features, such as the adequacy of the relevant budget allocations
in relation to contracts entered into, the proper recording of variation
orders, and the accuracy of payments and extra payments resulting from
price adjustments. The Auditoria is the functional link between MTC and the
Contraloria General de la Republica.
C.   Contraloria General de la Republica
12.       The Constitution, as amended in 1979, provides that the Contraloria
General de la Republica is responsible for controlling the execution of the
budget, the operations of the Public Debt, and the utilization of public
resources and goods. It is headed by a Contralor General proposed by the
President of the Republic and appointed by the Senate for a period of seven
years; he reports to the Senate.
13.       The Contraloria is responsible for the external audit of (a) public
entities such as ministries, municipalities and universities; (b) entities
with a Government share in equity; (c) public entities governed by the laws
and regulations applicable to private commercial companies; and (d) ent-ities
which are recipients of public funds. Auditing these numerous entities is
a formidable task that goes far beyond the capacity and capability of the 450
staff of the Contraloria. To cope with the workload, Contraloria receives
assistance in three forms:
1/   For example, the port component of the Bank-financed Lima-Amazon Trans-
port Corridor Project is carried out by ENAPU (Empresa Nacional de
Puertos). The Loan Agreement, 1196-PE of May 27, 1976, calls for ENAPU's
accounts to be audited annually. Because of slow action by Contraloria,
the audit is presently three years behind schedule.



- 83 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
(a) Entities subject to audit propose the appointment of private
audit firms; the latter are selected by Contraloria and paid
for by the entities;
(b) Contraloria itself appoints private audit firms to assist in
its auditing responsibilities; the fees are paid out of
Contraloria's budget;
(c) Staff from the Auditorias in various ministries are temporarily
transferred to Contraloria to audit entities other than that
to which they belong.
Private firms more often audit the autonomous decentralized agencies, while
Contraloria's staff focuses more on the administration per se, such as
ministries.
14.       Salaries of Contraloria's staff are, as everywhere in the Peruvian
public sector, extremely low. The level of remuneration does not allow
selective recruitment, and the professional competence of Contraloria's
staff is openly said to be poor. A new Contralor General has been appointed
recently, and there is an obvious desire to correct the situation. Funds
have been budgeted to increase Contraloria's staff to 700; efforts are being
made to improve the level of salaries.  While the past generally doubtful
performance of Contraloria warrants against its designation as auditor for
the financial transactions related to the proposed project, it is nevertheless
felt that the present circumstances are conducive to a substantial improvement
in Contraloria's professional standards. This factor, together with the
simplicity of the accounting system involved and the prompt production of
quarterly financial reports by MTC, should make it possible for Contraloria
to produce satisfactory and timely audit reports. In addition, the Contralor
General has agreed in principle to give priority to the audit of Bank-financed
project-related transactions. The Contraloria General de la Republica will
proceed with the audit of the proposed project's financial transactions,
covering MTC's relevant accounts, the financial reports produced by MTC, and
the position of the Working Fund to be established in an account with Banco de
la Nacion for the use of payments to civil works contractors carrying out
components of the proposed project. Contraloria's audit reports would be
furnished to the Bank as soon as available but, in any case, not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year. Should Contraloria not be able
to comply with this requirement, private auditors, satisfactory to the Bank,
should be appointed.
December 1981



- 84 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indices
Civil Works
Conformance with Action Program Key Dates.
Monthly bar-chart progress reports, and quarterly narrative reports on contracted
works.
Improving Equipment Availability
Conformance with Action Program Key Dates.
Number of dump trucks total/operational
it" other trucks total/operational
" motorgrader total/operational
asphalt kettles total/operational
"   " other equipment total/operational
Road Maintenance
Road kilometers benefiting from surface repair
?"    it           it    I"  roadside maintenance
it    it           "      "   drainage maintenance
it    It           it    1"  structure maintenance
Paved road kilometers resealed
Gravel road kilometers regravelled
Unsurfaced road kilometers reshaped
Paved road kilometers reconstructed or strengthened.
Training Program
Conformance with Action Program, Key Dates.
Total           Total in          Total Trained
Category             Required          Training          or Retrained
Mechanics
Road Maintenance Foremen
Equipment Operators
Drivers
Technicians
(over)



- 85 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
Professionals                Technicians
Staffing                      Required    Staffed         Required    Staffed
Studies and Design
Construction
Maintenance - H.Q.
Maintenance - Regions
Planning
Soils and Materials
Equipment Service - H.Q.
Equipment Service - Region
October 1981



- 86 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Road Sections To Be Rehabilitated
1.        The road between Talara and Cancas is part of the North Pan-American
Road and of the Basic Intermodal Network. This paved road of approximately
98 km has a width that varies between six and seven meters and runs parallel
to the Pacific Coast through the "Departamentos" of Tumbes and Piura. Besides
the activity of oil extraction - the road goes through or close to the principal
oil fields of Lobitos, El Alto, Los Organos - the area has some important
agricultural production, basically rice and citrus. Furthermore, the road
serves the international traffic which goes through the border with Ecuador.
The topography is predominantly flat (70%), and the alignment in these parts
is good. 1/ Shoulders either do not exist or are too narrow and in bad
condition. The proposed rehabilitation, in addition to repairing,
reconstructing and strengthening the pavement, as required on different
sections, would restore shoulders, raise roadgrade on short sections, and
correct drainage deficiencies. About 30% of the surface is in bad condition
(high level of roughness, cracks, deformations, potholes and rut) while 35%
is in regular condition and 35% in good condition.
2.        The Piura-Paita paved road (53 km) in the North is another part of
the national road network and of the Basic Intermodal network (para 3) as
defined in the Long Term Transport Plan (1979-1990). This road links the
capital of the Department of Piura with the important northern port of Paita.
The first 7 km, from Piura toward Paita, are part of the North Pan-American
Road linking Piura with Sullana. The agricultural products of the area are
predominantly cotton and rice. Agro-industry in the Department of Piura
includes production of vegetable fats and oils, fish products, fertilizers
and, since 1979, the production of wheat flour. The area adjacent to the road
is desert with occasional spare shrubs, and sand dunes, accumulated by strong
winds, build up quickly and create a road maintenance problem, especially in
the sector of road about 37 km from Piura. The road runs through mostly i-lat
terrain with only about 25% running through gently rolling topography. About
38% of the surface shows severe cracks and deformations, while about 35% is in
regular condition and 27% in good condition.
3.        The La Oroya-Morococha road is an important paved road (44 km)
on the portion of the central highway which serves both main access routes
to the Selva Central. It is also a part of the Basic Intermodal network.
The road is located in the Department of Junin, and the mining town of
Morococha lies 136 km from Lima. Fresh agricultural products as well as
1/   The rest is rolling terrain (grades between 3 and 5% and curvature between
50 and 14 ) except for 13 km (El Alto-Los Organos section) of mountainous
topography and poor alignment.



- 87 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
timber and some cattle reach the large metropolitan market of Lima through
this road. The road leads to the high point of the crossing of the Andes
at an altitude of 4,840 m above sea level. Most of the road runs through
a relatively flat high plateau, and about 21 km are on mountainous terrain.
About 20% of the paved surface is in bad condition while the rest is in
regular condition.
December 1981



- PR -.
ANNEX 8_
Page 1
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training Component
1.        The objectives of MTC four-year training plan (1982-85) are to
strengthen and expand DGC and SEM training activities. The proposed pro-
ject would include the first two years of a longer term plan, estimated to
require at least four years, during which the training would focus on key
road and equipment personnel needed for management and execution of main-
tenance activities. Concurrently, a permanent training division would be
established within MTC capable of planning, implementing and supervising
the various programs required for DGTT and SEM personnel at all levels.
2.        During Phase I, with the assistance of an expatriate training
specialist recently recruited under the Seventh Highway Project, MTC would:
(i) make an assessment of its long-term training requirements and establish
priority needs; (ii) initiate the setting up of the training division within
MTC; (iii) prepare a short-term training action program of measures which
could be initiated at once; and (iv) determine further technical assistance
requirements.
3.        During Phase II, which would be partially financed by the proposed
Loan, MTC would recruit senior instructors to begin implementation of priority
programs and begin training a number of MTC staff as instructors. In order
to meet some of the most urgent training needs, MTC would also contract train-
ing instructors to supplement those drawn from MTC staff.
4.        Theoretical training would be conducted at training centers, to be
built in selected areas, while practical training of road foremen, equipment
operators and drivers would be carried out mostly in the field under the
supervision of instructors. Field personnel would thus be trained under
actual working conditions. Training of mechanics would be carried out prin-
cipally at Piedras Gordas, an area outside Lima. In addition to training on
preventive   maintenance of equipment, the training of mechanical personnel
would also serve to repair broken-down equipment, under the supervision of
experienced mechanical instructors, thus increasing MTC's equipment overhaul
capabilities. MTC would be required to provide adequate spare parts for the
training of mechanics throughout the duration of the program. Seminars on
different topics related to maintenance management, accounting and adminiLs-
tration would be conducted for field management staff by technical assistance
experts and DGC senior maintenance staff. Selected middle level managemient
staff would also receive training abroad. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed that,by February 28, 1982, it would furnish to the Bank a plan
of action indicating how the training program would be implemented, and,by
April 30, 1982, it would commence training activities and provide, through
MTC, an adequate supply of spare parts for the training of mechanics and heavy
road maintenance equipment for road supervisors, as well as adequate annual
funds for implementation of the program.



- by9 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        The proposed Loan would partially finance contracted services of
training specialists and instructors; physical training facilities, which
would be built in selected areas, and training equipment and materials, in-
cluding audio-visual training aids. The loan would also finance overseas
training for MTC counterpart instructors and middle level management staff.
All training activities would be coordinated by the proposed training divi-
sion, which would initially be assisted by consultant staff including a
training adviser, three specialists and five Peruvian instructors to be
recruited from the private sector. MTC would assign about nine full time
counterparts to the technical assistance and other staff to assist with
training as required for the successful implementation of the program. It
is expected that the counterpart staff would take over all training after
the specialists'assignment is completed. In addition to the above, MTC
would determine and agree training programs to be carried out by SENATI and
other suitable training institutions outside MTC, including manufacturers/
suppliers.
6.        Preliminary estimates of personnel to be trained or retrained
include:
- Maintenance Foremen                          350
- Operators and Drivers                        300
- Mechanics and Assistants                     235
- Support and Administrative Staff             475
- Maintenance and Workshop Supervisors          75
- Engineers                                     65
TOTAL        1,500
October 1981



-90-                                 ANNEX 9
PERU
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
1.  Ministerio de Transportes y               Rehabilitacion de Carreteras:
Comunicaciones (MTC)                     - Talara-Cancas
- Piura-Paita
- Chanchamayo-Satipo
- Tarapoto Moyobamba-Rioja
2.  MTC                                       Transporte Masivo Paralelo al Litoral:
Cabotaje Marltimo Nacional
3. MTC                                        Tr-ansito 1978-1979
4.  MTC                                       Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1980-81
Plan Operativo Sectorial de Transportes
5. MTC                                        Plan Director de Transportes 1977-1986
6.  MTC                                       Plan Sectorial de Transportes a Largo
Plazo 1979-1990
7.  Ministerio de Economia,                   Presupuesto del Sector Publico para
Finanzas y Comercio                       1981 - Ley 23233
8.  Instituto Nacional de Plani-              Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1980-1981
ficacion (INP)
9.  INP                                       Plan Nacional de Desarrollo a Mediano
Plazo 1978-1982
10.  INP/IBRD                                 Public Investment Program 1981-85
Consultative Group Presentation
11.  Barriga-Dall'Orto                        Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnico -
Ingenieros Consultores SCRL            Economico de Estudios Economicos del
Tramo San Ramon-Oxapampa
12.  Barriga-Dall'Orto                        Estudio Definitivo del Tramo Tarma-
San Ramon
13.  C.P.S. de Ingenieria S.A.                Estudio Definitivo del Tramo Moroc:ocha-
LaOroya
14.  Barriga-Dall'Orto                        Estudio de Factibilidad del Tramo
San Ramon-Oxapampa
15.  A. Garaud (Consultant)                   Reports on Field Inspections of Piura-
Paita, Talara-Cancas, Rioja-Tarapoto
and Chanchamayo-Satipo roads.
December 1981



ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS1/
AL<s]
INSPECTOR GENERAL'S 
ADMINISTRATION PERSONNEL  BiDING      TECHNICAL         INFOIRMATION    PLIRETIONS           DOCUMENT               SECTORAL                              OFIE OF
OUPPOR             NDSIC                    EPOFCE                                          OFFICE
VCMIITER                                                               VICE MINISTER OF
OFTASORT                                                               COMMUNCATIONS                                            -
DIRECTORATE GENERAL       DIRECTORATE GENERAL         DIRECTORATE           DIRIECTORATE GENERAL        DIRECTORATE GENERAL    DRECTORATE GENERAL
- OF AIR TRANSPORT     r   OF WATER TRANSPORT            GENERAL               OF LAND TRAFPIC            OP POSTAL SERVICES    O TELECOMMUNICATIONS1
I                         i                               OF HIGHWAYS 
I~~~~~~ Sol an                                                                              1 
I~~~~~~ I                                                        I                          I                                                     I 
I  |   DEPARTMENTAL           DEPARTMENTAL              DEPARTMENTAL
I                 j.    ~~~~~~WATER TRANSPORT    HIGHWAY FEL               TRAFFICPED        .         DEPARTMENTALI
OFFICES                OFFICES                   OFFICES                 POSTALSERVICES
CORPAC          |L_            NP                    ENAFER       t               ETT                                                   ENTEL.      '
I                1                                                1                          I                                                     I~~~~NAU  1  -C 
CPV                        INAIT       .            ENATRU        _                                       INICTEL    
I/ Source: Legislatiw Decre No. 96 of June 1, 1981                                                                                                                        World Baok - 23282



TENTATIVE ORGANIZATION CHART1/
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF HIGHWAYS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
PROGRAMS AND
GENERAL SUPERVISION                                                       BUDGET
|   SPECIALSTUDIES   |_                                      -| LEGAL ASSISTANCE
STUDIES AND         CONSTRUCTION               MAINTENANCE            STRUCTURES            RAILROADN
DESIGNSTUTRSOEAIN
DEPARTMENTAL FIELD
HIGHWAY OFFICES
*I_
li So-rce: MTC -Reorganization Panel Chairman JUIV 1981
World Bank - 23283



c   ' 9            t         2                     \9             \9        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              ~     ~~c    O  L    O   B    I   A  
z                              E     C -U         A     D      0     R        e v.o    $V         
GAt/o<S:r ~  ~         ~ ~~~~ ~~~~                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Al  z         L - 
e   X '  Ce  f -  '                     _  f/                                       <  72 
'  , X f ''' 'eE. / / -~~~"Oe
SKS  I            n( & ~~~.-               M                                    U2f S-iX                                               s 
c ne<ES l-:~~~~~~>3   )   (t   -                                t 481l                  -' ;:>, t~~~~~~~~~~- G        - 
z        s            ~~~~ E R U             dT71Mno                                                                                                      iv \     ;2F  x
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  2   4                                                                                      CT, I- J  BRA     
ALLN-                ;     4 WETE ROAD                                  >                   'D:.s57J/-    a
'(R RASlwy                 ,F>2>,          $          f                   Fst 
RAI W.RCdw.<            t             \  fl_v 
F:UDAtESX _tEa=W  
Cbt-s40 2 t 7 rbello o-\
-12                                                    K      h tl           W         '.INTERATICNAt 0JNDARLE
EIGHTH  HIGHWAY PROJEC               P         S          X    z-->2Sf;a>e5Q1lr->    _X;4 ->   S-. 3AS 
ALTT ODE It,MTERSCINAtIV9CYMN        i*J    {;~>                                                       *           reAg 
0===   -IHF f5HWYPDOC                                                  s5             L    +     >    ,9             ;t   
~~~~~l ~ ~  ~     0 - = 2L ET RRAD                         oCs >           O T 4bC              t     g   KA       b                         SU         ojt   
E                     Are=hxb /     p     <       O     t~~~~IE  5
|~~~~~~~~~~ 70 7- 230br       ;5                                                                                   :moJ          .\7 \X






IBRD 15979
730                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 1981
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                             POETRAS
SI  Central                     Are~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'\.. ~~~~Eighth Highway Project
Seva-Ceta    Regional  Development   Ae0                                                                   Loan 1196- PE
EXISTING ROADS:
ro Moyobomb'a                                                                                              Asphalt
SARfN                                                                                      ------__Dirt
MARTIN                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i------  Railroads
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT ZONES:
-                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Chanchamayo- Satipa
Oxapampa - Pozuzo
Palcazu- Pichis- Paichitea
61                                ~~~~~~~~~Alto Ucayali /Tambo - Bobo Urubamba
morrc                               R. rotnoYLI                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pangoa- Ene
5 to                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pto. Putaya     Lower Selva
9~~~~~~~    &                Tournavsa'                                             Rivers
)           ~~~~Department Bounclaries
International Boundairies
Tingo Mariahar
ELEVATION IN METERS:
O.   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~r;Over 4,000
ca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%                                            3,000 -4,000
tman har                                //*                         2,000- 3,000
j                                                                                          -1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tlO1,000 -2,000  Epraa
500 -1000     Curana
Arnbo(  I                               Bo~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~lognesi                                                                11
mbo  ~~~                  to
SanRam6n0  ~~~~~i)    ~ ~ '  Pta Prado                        5.~~~~~~  . ~KILOMETERS
j          ~~ECUADOR   ~~LMl
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~am/se    F         PERU        /  ~~BRAZIL
Fec n                   <IL C    ZC
Th,o step 1,00 bees prepared B
~    World Bsk $ otaf oooioo,oiy for2Um
~~~~jwncci ~'                                        rpotad,ht,arec 
~~A  CHO        F do sot reply~~~~~h,r iOth par of t
n  m       2                                   orOPtO:foobo,d,e  -                      r.Ql



