oFFICIAD    : LOAN NUMBER 2091 PE
DocummmeB
Loan Agreement
(Eighth Highway Pro ject)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR. RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE LA NACION
Dated    u, 1982


﻿LOAN NUMDER 2091 PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       UL                    , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF PERU (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCO DE 1A NACION (hereinafter called Banco
Naci6n).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan
as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Banco Naci6n has participated in the negotiation of
this Agreement, has made representations to the Bank to the
effect that it has discharged all of its other responsibilities as
financial agent of the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and
Communications pursuant to the Borrower's Decreto Legislativo No.
5 published in El Peruano on December 31, 1980, and has undertaken
certain additional obligations in respect of the Bank and the
Borrower as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Crfdito Piblic6" means Direcci6n General de
Crfdito PG"blico of the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, Finance
and Commerce;
(b) "Prior Project" means the project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
dated May 27, 1976, and such agreement, as amended up to Janu-
ary J0, 1981, is hereinafter called the Prior Loan Agreement;
(c) "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport
and Communications or any successor thereto;
(d) "International Office" means Oficina de Pr6stamos Inter-
nacionales, the office of internationally financed projects
of the Ministry, as such office developed from the unit estab-
lished under Part M of the Prior Project, and the term includes
any office (i) resulting from the reorganization of the Ministry
under the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 96 published in El
Peruano on June 1, 1981, and (ii) which assumes the functions of
the aforesaid office of internationally financed projects;
(e) "SEM" means the Ministry's Servicio de Equipo Mecanico
or any successor thereto;
(f) "Special Account" means the account to be opened
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g) "Revolving Fund" means the fund to be established
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(h) "Road Investment Plan" means the road projects which
have been listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time; and
(i) "Original Price" means the original price in any given
contract, as such price mal be adjusted from time to time due to
inflation in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
contract.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-3-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ninety three million dollars ($93,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for purposes of Parts A and E of
the Project (excluding Part E (i) (4)), establish and maintain
a Special Account in dollars in Banco Naci6n, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Payments out of the Speclal
Account shall be made exclusively to reimburse the Borrower for
the reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out
Parts A or E of the Project (excluding Part E (i) (4)) and
to be financed under this Agreement in accordance with the provi-
sions thereof. Banco Naci6n shall authorize the Borrower to
withdraw from the Special Account on the basis of the evidence
referred to in paragraph (d).
(c) The Bank shall, after the Effective Date and at the
request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account all or part of
the amount of the Loan then allocated to Category (7) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. In the
event the amount of such initial deposit is less than the amount
of the Loan then allocated to such Category (7), the Borrower may,
from time to time, request the Bank to make one or more additional
withdrawals from the Loan Account under such Category (7) and
make one or more additional initial deposits to the Special
Account, provided, however, that the aggregate of all initial
deposits shall not exceed the amount of the Loan allocated from
time to time to such Category (7). Notwithstanding the aforesaid
and, at the request of the Borrower, the Bank on behalf of the
Borrower shall further withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to payments made
out of the Special Account for expenditures for Parts A and E of
the Project (excluding Part E (i) (4)) eligible for financing
under this Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
determine, each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account
in respect of a deposit in the Special Account, other than an


﻿initial deposit, shall be made in respect of Category (1) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
and in the same respective amounts as have been justified by the
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pur-
suant to paragraph (d) of this Section.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit by the Bank on behalf of the Borrower in the Special
Account, other than an initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank in respect of each payment out of the Special Account
such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made to reimburse the
Borrower for the reasonable cost of goods or services required for
Parts A or E of the Project (excluding Part E (i) (4)) and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement.
(e) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made to reimburse the Borrower
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible for financing
from the Loan Account, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank aid, unless otherwise
determined by the Bank, prioi to any further deposit into the
Special Account by the Bank, deposit in the Special Account or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section: (i) if the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals from the Loan Account may be made directly
by the Borrower from the Loan Account under paragraph (a) of this
Section, or (ii) if the total amount withdrawn from the Loan
Account under Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall have reached an amount
equivalent to the aggregate amount of the Loan then allocated to
such Category less twice the amount of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account under Category (7) of the aforesaid table, the Bank
may deny any request by the Borrower for further deposits in the
Special Account. Withdrawals from the Loan Account for the Project
of the remaining amount of the Loan shall thereafter follow
such procedures as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank and shall be made only to the extent that the Bank shall be
satisfied by the evidence furnished in support of the applications


﻿-5-
for such withdrawal that all payments by the Borrower out of the
Special Account were,made on account of the reasonable cost of
goods or services required for Parts A or E of the Project
(excluding Part E (i) (4)) and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the -.-ank shall establish. The .Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the L6an not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part G (i) of
the Project through the office established, under the President of
the Borrower's Council of Ministers, for the Pichis-PalcazG'
Project, and all other Parts of the Project through the Ministry,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, engineering and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-6-
(b) Without limitation or restrictilan upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) take all
such measures as shall be necessary to ensure that the Interna-
tional Office (A) assumes, in respect of the Project, the same
duties it presently discharges in respect of the Prior Project,
expanded so as to include other duties provided for in this
Agreement, and (B) is maintained until one year after the Closing
Date and provided, promptly as needed, with such funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources as shall be required for the
efficient discharge of all of its aforesaid duties; and (ii)
establish by August 31, 1982 and maintain thereafter until the
Closing Date, in Banco Naci6n and on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, a Revolving Fund for ise by the Ministry
in meeting expenditures for Parts A and E (other than E (i) (4))
of the Project, and ensure that, (A) the amounts available in such
Fund do not fall below 8 weeks estimated expenditures for such
Part of the Project, (B) funds are promptly deposited in such Fund
so as to cover any difference between the amouhts withdrawn from
time to time from such Fund for the aforesaid expenditures and the
amounts disbursed or to be disbursed from the Special Account or
the Loan Account in respect of such expenditures, and (C) such
Fund is at all times operated in accordance with rules and guide-
lines satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A (iv), B, C (iii), D (other than D (i)), E (iii), F, G
and H of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; such employment to be made in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C
(ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall contract services from
suppliers of the equipment and vehicles involved or hire addi-
tional mechanical staff for SEM, both on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D
(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. II, addition to the 5 experts
to be hired pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, the


﻿-7-
Borrower shall hire not less than 12 experts for purposes of this
sub-paragraph (c) by the date specified in the letter referred to
in such Section.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall, through the International
Office, maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall, through the International Office furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower, through the International Office,


﻿-8-
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Parts A, C (iv), D (ii) and E of the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acqui-
sition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Bank on the findings and recommendations of the study on the basis
of which the Borrower shall determine the roads and civil works to
be included in Part B of the Project before such determination is
made.
Section 3.07. In order to enable the Ministry to attract and
maintain qualified and experienced staff for its operation as well
as to carry out the Ministry's descentralization policies, the
Borrower shall: (i) exercise all powers granted under the
Borrower's laws and regulations particularly the powers granted
under the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 96 published in El
Peruano on June 1, 1981; and (ii) after exchanging views with the
Bank, but not later than January 1, 1984, put into effect a
revised salary structure, including a revised grade classification
for such staff.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a
program satisfactory to the Bank in respect of purchases for
purposes of Part C (i) of the Project before placing any order in
respect thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿-9-
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the Ministry and other departments or agencies of the
Borrower (including Banco Naci6n) responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have or cause to have the
Revolving Fund and the separate accounts referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited in accordance
wi: aRppropriate principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank through
the International Office as soon as available but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, the reports
of such audits by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank through the International Office such other information
concerning said "Fund and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Banco Naci6n shall: (i) have the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appro-
priate auditing princi)les consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the Special Account and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause all the
public roads under the Ministry's jurisdiction to be maintained
and repaired all in accordance with sound engineering practices;
and (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the foregoing.
(b) The Borrower shall take all such measures permitted
under the laws and regulations of the Borrower, including con-
tractual arrangements, as shall be necessary to cause regional
or other authorities with road jurisdiction (i) to maintain
adequately all the roads under their reLpective jurisdiction, and
(ii) to ensure that the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the foregoing are available as and when
needed.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) cause all of its road con-
struction apd maintenance machinery and equipment required for
maintenance of the roads referred to in paragraph (a) above, and
if such shall be the case under any of the arrangements referred
to in paragraph (b) above, the roads referred to in such paragraph


﻿- 11 -
also, to be adequately maintained and repaired; (ii) cause suit-
able workshops to be established and maintained in suitable places
for the foregoing; (iii) grant priority in the use of the afore-
said machinery and equipment for the maintenance of the roads
referred to in paragraph (a) and (b), in that order; and (iv)
provide, and cause the aforesaid authorities to provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the foregoing.
(d) The Borrower shall cause each of the authorities
referred to in paragraph (b) above: (i) to cause all of their
respective road construction and maintenance machinery and
equipment required for maintenance of the roads referred to in
such paragraph undet the jurisdiction of such authority to
be adequately maintained and repaired; (ii) to cause suitable
workshops to be established and maintained in suitable places
for the foregoing; and (iii) to provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
foregoing.
(e) Without limiting the generality of the preceding provi-
sions of this Section, the Borrower shall take all necessary
action to cause the dimensions, axle-loading and weight of the
vehicles using roads of the Borrower to be kept within the limits
provided by the Borrower's laws and regulations and to ensure,
and cause regional and other authorities with road jurisdiction to
ensure consistent enforcement of the laws and regulations govern-
ing road-use. All of the aforesaid to be done in a fashion consis-
tent with the system to be established under Part D (iii) of the
Project, after such system shall be established by the Borrower
not later than December 31, 1982.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to ensure that: (i) by October 1, 1982 the
jurisdiction for road planning, design, construction and main-
tenance activities in respect of all of the Borrower's roads is
defined and distributed among national, regional and other
authorities with jurisdiction on roads as a function of a road
classification; (ii) such road classification is updated at least
annually; and (iii) the Ministry shall keep adequate separate
records accounting for maintenance expenditures at national and
regional levels.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall:


﻿- 12 -
(a) furnish to the Bank for comment, not later than July 31,
1982, and update by every anniversary thereafter, a program of
action to be taken, including the estimated cost thereof, in the
next succeeding calendar year in respect of road maintenance, such
program to be based on the maintenance plan described in the
letter supplemental to this Agreement (re Road Maintenance Plan
and Budgets) of even date herewith;
(b) furnish to the Bank for comment, not later than Septem-
ber 1, 1982, and update by every anniversary thereafter, a program
of action to be taken (including the estimated cost thereof) in
the next succeeding year in respect of maintenance equipment
renewal, such program to be prepared on the basis of the systems
and programs developed as a result of the carrying out of Part C
(iii) of the Project;
(c) furnish to the Bank, not later than September 1, 1982,
a program of action to be taken, (including the estimated cost
thereof) if agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, in respect
of road rehabilitation in the next following four calendar years;
such program to be prepared on the basis of the results obtained
by carrying out Part L of the Prior Project and to be reviewed
annually by the Borrower and the Bank not later than on every
anniversary of the aforesaid date;
(d) furnish to the Bank as soon as available the budget for
expenditures to be incurred by the Borrower during eacb fiscal
year in respect of roads, each such budget to show, inter alia,
the funds allocated in respect of the carrying out of the action
included in each of the corresponding programs referred to in the
preceding paragraphs of this Section; and
(e) exchange views with the Bank on any new investment
which may result in expenditures equivalent to $10,000,000 or
more; for purposes of this sub-paragraph "new investment" means
an investment corresponding to a project which is not included in
the Road Investment Plan.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿- 13 -
(a) Banco Naci6n shall have failed to perform any cove-
nant, agreement or obligation of Banco Naci6n under the Loan
Agreement; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.       I
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and to Banco Naci6n also;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that five experts have been hired to fill, for purposes
of Part D (i) of the Project, the positions listed in the letter
from the Borrower's Minister of Transport and Communications to
the Bank dated November 17, 1981; and
(b) that this Agreement has been duly registered by Cr6dito
PGblico.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank on behalf of the Borrower namely, that the
Loan Agreement has been duly reg      ered by Cr6dito PGblico.
Section 6.03. The date                     , 193, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Commerce
of the Borrower and the Director of Cr6dito Pfblico are severally
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia
Finanzas y Comercio
Avenida Abancay 51 Cuadra
Lima
PerG'


﻿-15-
With copy to:
Ministerio de Transportes y
Comunicaciones
28 de Julio 800
Lima, Peru"
Telex:
25511 PE
DIGECOM
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Banco Naci6n:
Avenida Abancay 491
Lima
Peru'
Cable address:                       Telex:
Lima, Peru'                       25320 PE
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, and Banco Naci6n
also in the role described in the Preamble to this Agreement,
acting through their representatives thereunto duly authorized,
have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names


﻿- 16 -
in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE LA NACION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for              44,500,000       51%
Parts A and E
(excluding Part E
(i) (4)) of the
Project (excluding
amounts withheld
as performance
guarantees)
(2) Civil works for                 400,000       51%
Parts C (iv) and
D (ii) of the Project
(excluding amounts
withheld as per-
formance guaran-
tees)
(3) Equipment and                 9,000,000       100% of foreign
spare parts for                                 expenditures
Parts C and D (iii)
of the Project
(4) Consultant services           5,600,000       100% of foreign
for Parts A (iv) and                            expenditures
E (iii) of the Project                            and 25% of
local expendi-
tures
(5) Consultant services          1,200,000        100% of foreign
for Parts B and F of                            expenditures
the Project                                       and 25% of
local expendi-
tures


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(6)                             2,700,000
(a) Services for                             70%
Parts C (in
respect of C (i),
only supplier
services) D, G
and H of the
Project
(b) Training abroad                          100% of foreign
for Part D (ii)                         expenditures
of the Project
(7) Initial deposits in         4,800,000
Special Account pur-
suant to Section 2.02
(c) of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                24,800,000
TOTAL       93,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 19 -
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the af-zzu -tioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,000,000 may be made: (i) in respect of Category (4) on
account of payments made for such expenditures in an aggregate
amount not exceeding $300,000 equivalent before such date but
after March 31, 1981; (ii) in respect of Category (5) on account
of payments made for expenditures for purposes of Part F (i) and
(ii) of the Project before the date of this Agreement but after
March 31, 1981 in an aggregate amount not exceeding $150,000
equivalent; (iii) in respect of Category (6) on account of pay-
ments made for expenditures for purposes of Part D (i) of the
Project before the date of this Agreement, but after March 31,
1981 in an aggregate amount not exceeding $175,000 equivalent;
(iv) in respect of Category (6) on account of payments made for
expenditures for purposes of Part C (ii) and Part C (iii) of the
Project before the date of this Agreement but after November 1,
1981 in an aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; and
(v) in respect of Category (6) on account of payments made for
expenditures for purposes of Part G (i) of the Project before the
date of this Agreement but after September 30, 1981 in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding $175,000 equivalent.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditure in


﻿- 20 -
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Roads Rehabilitation Works
(i) Strengthening and reconstruction of about 44 kilometers
of existing pavement of the Morococha-La Oroya road,
including passage through the town olf-La Oroya;
(ii) Repairs, reconstruction and strengthening of about 98
kilometers of the existing pavement of the Talara-
Cancas road, raising grades and improving drainage in
some sections ofb such road to prevent flooding thereof
and construction of protective works to counter erosion
along two tortuous sections of such road located in
hilly terrain;
(iii) Reconstruction and strengthening of about 53 kilometers
of existing pavement of the Piura-Paita road and raising
road grade along about 25 kilometers of such road to
reduce blockage by sand dunes; and
(iv) Supervision of the works under each of the preceding
components of this Part of the Project.
The principal design standards to be used and works to be under-
taken in the aforesaid roads are set forth in Part A of the Annex
to this Schedule.
Part B:   Future Road Rehabilitation
(i) Detailed engineering for road rehabilitation projects
for which works are expected to start in 1983 and
1984; and
(ii) Detailed engineering for a pilot geotechnical project
under which state-of-the art slide stabilization techni-
ques will be introduced.
The scope of both to be determined, at the satisfaction of
the Bank, on the basis of the study that, for the purpose, is
being carried out under Part N of the Prior Project.


﻿- 22 -
Part C:   Improving Road Maintenance Equipment Availability
(i) Acquisition of spare parts and utilization thereof to
complete the overhaul program of about 275 units of
equipment additional to those overhauled under Part C of
the Prior Project;
(ii) accelerating repair works on maintenance equipment and
vehicles;
(iii) continuation of the: (1) improvement of SEM's account-
ing, equipment leasing and control, and spare parts
warehousing and control systems; and (2) development of
SEM's program for equipment rehabilitation, renewal and
maintenance, both as started under Part L of the Prior
Project by means of, inter alia, provision of technical
assistance to SEM in respect of the aforesaid;
(iv) improvement of workshops, including the acquisition
and utilization therefor of workshop equipment and
tools; and
(v) improvement of Ministry's capacity to perform routine
road maintenance, including the supervision thereof, by
means of, inter alia, the acquisition and utilization of
light equipment and vehicles.
Part D:   Strengthening of Highway Administration
(i) Improving management of, and upgrading technical ex-
pertise for, Ministry's activities in respect of: (1)
road maintenance; (2) management of maintenance equip-
ment and workshops; (3) geotechnical and soil engineer-
ing; (4) programming and control; and (5) highway design
and construction management;
(ii) execution of annual training programs for Ministry's
operational staff, particularly of road maintenance
foremen and operators and mechanical foremen and field
management staff, including construction of facilities
therefor; and
(iii) planning and establishing an improved vehicle weight
control system, including the purchase and installation
of the necessary equipment therefor.


﻿- 23 -
Part E:   Road Improvements in Developing Regions
(i)  Improving certain sections totalling about 263 kilo-
meters of the main roads serving part of Selva Central
area, the development potential of which was established
under the study carried out under Part K of the Prior
Project. The roads to be improved are: (1) Tarma-San
Ram6n; (2) La Merced-Villa Rica; (3) Carhumayc Bridge-
Satipo; and (4) Access to Oxapampa;
(ii)  improving the Rioja to Tarapoto section of the Corral
Quemado-Tarapoto road serving the Rio Mayo area; and
(iii) supervision of the works under each of the preceding
components of this Part of the Project.
The sections of the aforementioned roads to be improved under
the Project, the principal design standards therefor and works to
be undertaken thereon are as specified in Part B of the Annex to
this Schedule.
Part F:   Engineering
(i) Detailed engineering for Parts A (ii) and (iii) of the
Project;
(ii) detailed engineering for Part E (i) and (ii) of the
Project; and
(iii) detailed engineering for the section between Rioja and
Corral Quemado (other than Sections included in (ii)
above) of the road referred to in Part E (ii) of
the Project.
Part G:   Studies
(i) Preparation of a detailed regional agricultural develop-
ment program, including feeder roads requirements, for
the part of the Selva Central area served by the roads
included in Part E (i) of the Project;
(ii) execution of a study on traffic demand and regulatory or
organizational measures, or both, for instituting
integrated cabotage and trucking services along the
coast of Perul; and


﻿- 24 -
(iii) defining the organization and procedures required to
establish separate channels for the seeking, by
regional and other authorities, of financing for the
construction or rehabilitation of feeder and access
roads.
Part H:   Strengthening of the investment planning and scheduling
capabilities of the Ministry and of the coordination
between its Oficina Sectorial de Planificaci6n and its
Direcei6n de Caminos.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 25 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Principal design standards and works for
roads under Parts A and E of the Project
and sections of the roads referred to
under Part E of the Project
Surface Width         Shoulder
and Type            Width
A.   Part A of the Project
1.   Morococha-Oroya               7.20m - A.C.*          0.75m
(P/R, ID)*
2.   Piura-Paital/                 6.60m - A.C.           1.20m
(P/R, RG)
3.   Talara-Cancas                 6.60m - A.C.           1.20m
(P/R, RG, ID)
B.   Part E of the Project
1.   Tarma-Pte.San Felix
(Tarma-Pte.Huayocnioc)/.    (7.20m - A.C.)         variable
(P/R, ID)
(Pte.Huayocnioc-Pte.San      (6.00m - A.C.)         0.75m
Felix)
(P/C, S, ST, RW, ID)
2.   La Merced-Villa Rica
(La Merced-Desvio Satipo)     (6.60m - A.C.)         1.20m
(P/C, S, ST, RW, ID)
(Desvio Satipo-Villa Rica)    (6.60m - S.T.)        0.75m
(P/C, S, ST, RW, ID)
3.   Chanchamayo-Satipo             6.00m - S.T.          0.75m
(P/C, S, ST, RG, RW, ID)
4.   Access to Oxapampa             5.00m - GR
(P/C, S, ST, ID)
1/   Includes about 7 km of Panamerican Highway between Piura and
road junction to Paita.
2/   Includes about 2.4 km of street improvement in Tarma.
See legend for explanation of symbols.


﻿- 26 -
Surface Width         Shoulder
and Type            Width
5.   Rioja-Moiobamba-
Tarapoto3
(Rioja km-481 - km 514)      (6.00m - S.T.)         0.75m
(P/C, ST, ID)
(km 514 - km 584)            (7.50m-8.40m-GR)        -
(P/R, ST, ID)
(km 584 - km 618)-Tarapoto   (6.00m - S.T.)         0.75m
(P/C, ST, ID)
3/   Includes about 2 km of street improvement in Tarapoto.
LEGEND
Types of Improvement Works                      Surface Type
P/R  Pavement Reconstruction               A.C. Asphalt Concrete
P/C Pavement New Construction              S.T. Surface Treatment
S    New Structures                        GR    Gravel
ST   Stabilization of Slopes
RG   Raise Grade
RW   River Protection Works
ID   Improved Drainage


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1986
through   September 1, 1998                3,575,000
On March 1, 1999                                3,625,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal;
see General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                   4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   7.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                            10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  11.60%


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank'will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   (a) With respect to any contract for civil works for Parts A
and E (other than E (i) (4)) of the Project, contractors shall be
prequalified, as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines, for one or more road sections in respect of each of
the bidding lots referred to below.
(b) For bidding purposes, construction and improvement works
under Parts A and E (other than E (i) (4)) of the Project shall be
divided into twelve road sections to be tendered under four
separate bidding lots, each lot encompassing the following Parts
of the Project: Part A (i) and E (i) (1), Part A (ii) and
(iii); Part E (i) (2) and (3); and Part E (ii). Each invitation to
bid for such works in respect of each lot shall, inter alia,
specify that: (i) all bids in respect of such lot will be opened
at the same time, and awarded simultaneously; (ii) prequalified
bidders will be allowed to bid for one or more sections of each


﻿- 30 -
bidding lot and required to express whether they are bidding for
one or more sections individually or collectively and to bid
accordingly; (iii) awards shall be made on the basis of the lower
of (1) the lowest evaluated bid for the entire works of each lot
or (2) the lowest evaluated combination of bids; and (iv) the
Borrower will have the option of awarding to one contractor a
single contract in respect of all sections, or to different
contractors separate contracts in respect of one or more sections.
(c) For bidding purposes, contracts for equipment for
Part C of the Project will be grouped, so as to permit bulk
procurement to the extent practicable, in such manner as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior to issuing the
invitation to bid.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall
be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic and Regional Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Peru or in a country which is a party to the Cartagena Agreement
or to any other regional trade agreement acceptable to the Bor-
rower and the Bank (the Cartagena Agreement or any such other
regional agreement hereinafter called the Regional Agreement),
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 31 -
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following four groups:
(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Perfi if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in PerG equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(b) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(c) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
country other than PerG which is a party to the
Regional Agreement.
(d) Group D: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be com-
pared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a
bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all
group C and D bids shall be further compared with the lowest
evaluated bid from group A after adding to the evaluated bid price
of the imported goods offered in each group C and group D bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to:
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
goods offered in such group C bid or group D bid; or (ii) 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid or the group C
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
5.   If, as a result of the further comparison under para-
graph (4) above, a bid from group D is the lowest, and provided
there are taxes actually payable for the importation of goods
offered in the lowest evaluated bid from group C, as determined
under paragraph (3) above, all group D bids shall be finally
compared with such lowest evaluated bid from group C, after adding


﻿- 32 -
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each
group D bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an
amount equal to the smaller of (i) the positive difference, if
any, between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which would actually be payable for the importation of goods
offered in such group D bid and for the importation of goods
offered in the group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. price of
goods to be' imported offered in such group D bid. If the lowest
bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group D, as
determined under paragraph (3) above, shall be selected for the
award.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for workshop tools which cannot be grouped in
bidding lots estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more may be
awarded to established dealers of such goods after obtaining
not less than 3 quotations from such dealers, provided the aggre-
gate of contracts to be so awarded does not exceed the equivalent
of $500,000.
2.   The provisions of the preceding Part C.1      may apply to
contracts for purposes of Part D (iii) of the Project, except that
the aggregate of contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed the
equivalent of $150,000.
3.   Contracts for spare parts for equipment overhaul may be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding locally advertised;
provided, however, that when the nature of such spare parts makes
it more convenient, in the interest of economy and efficiency,
such contracts may be awarded, with the prior approval of the
Bank, through normal commercial channels. The Borrower and the
Bank shall agree, from time to time, which of the aforesaid
contracts shall be subject to competitive bidding.
4.   Contracts for civil works under Parts C (iv) and D (ii) of
the Project may be awarded under locally advertised competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications


﻿-33-
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 34 -
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the Original Price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 5
Road Investment Plan
Name of the Project
Arequipa - Sumbay
Nazca - Cusco
Tarma - La Merced
Pucusana - Caffete
Tanaka - Chala
Variante Coishco
Balsas - Bolívar
Huanta - Ayacucho
Ilo Desaguadero
Olmos - Corral Quemado
Chosica - Oroya - Huanuco
Calles de Pucallpa
Vías de los Libertadores:
Sector: Pisco - Ayacucho
Huanuco - Aguaytia
Marginal de la Selva:
San Alejandro - Puerto Bermúdez
Mazamari - Rio Puyemi
Serranoyacu - Rio Nieva
Juanjui - Pizana
Reconstrucci6n Carretera Central
Plan Vial Loreto:


﻿- 36 -
Name of the Project
Puente Pallar - Calemar
Jefaturas Militares
Huaral - Huacho
Rio Seco - Ambo
Juliaca - Urcos
Jauja - Tarma
Corral Quemado - Ocalli
Urcos - Maldonado
Matarani - Mollendo - Tambo
VIII PrfstamoBIRIF
Trujillo - Contumaza - San Miguel
Trujillo - Juanjui
Chongoyape - Chota
Cutervo - Santa Cruz
Chota - Paccha - Chadin - Maraffon
Guzmango - Cruz Grande


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT,
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  4       day of   M   , 198 2
FOR SECRETARY


