Report No. PID8121
Project Name                     Albania-Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation (@+)
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Water Supply & Sanitation Adjustment
Project ID                       ALPE66491
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
Implementing Agency
Address WORLD BANK WATER PIU IN DURRES &
SUPPORTING CONSULTING FIRM
Lagja Nr. 14 Rr. "Bajram Tusha",
Durres, Albania.
Contact Person: Ndricim Shani
Tel: 355 52 226 39
Fax: 355 52 226 39
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 17, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         October 7, 1999
Projected Board Date             February 15, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Water and sanitation infrastructure in Albania is in dire condition. Even
though around 80 percent of Albania's urban population has access to a
piped water distribution network, the level of service is very poor. The
following table shows the number of hours per day of water supply for
cities in Albania. In addition, drinking water quality is often
compromised by lack of adequate treatment and disinfecting facilities and
supply of chemicals. Failure of components of these stressed systems is
expected. The state of disrepair of the water and sewerage systems in
Albania has become even more apparent during the recent refugee crisis.
While supply capacities are generally adequate, lack of system maintenance
and repairs, poor quality of construction and materials, and lack of
metering and operational controls have resulted in excessive water losses,
estimated to be greater than 50% in all cities.   As a result, water supply
service is intermittent with most urban areas receiving less than 4 hours
of service per day. However, the average quantity of water delivered per
customer is in most cities still sufficient, with the exception of Durres
city, where in average only 55 l/c*d are provided. These average figures
are hiding the fact, that an unknown number of customers are getting less
water or no water at all (reliable data are not available at present).
Service coverage and quality are falling as a result of rapid urban
migration; insufficient resources for operation, maintenance and new
investments; and inadequate incentives for sector agencies to improve
services.The problem with Albania's rapidly disintegrating water and
sanitation systems is not only the inadequate service it provides for the
Albanian people, it also causes high operation cost which have to be
subsidized by the Central Government. The neglected maintenance
accelerates the decay of the water and sanitation systems and is thereby
increasing the need for new investment which is putting additional
financial burden on the Government.     The supply of drinking water is the



responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works, Territory Adjustment and
Tourism (MoPW). Water supply is basically organized by district and each
district usually has its own water supply enterprise. These enterprises
are assisted technically by the MoPW through its Directorate General of
Water, which also finances infrastructure investments. The management
organization of sewerage systems is similar to that of water supply
systems, although sewerage departments are normally smaller and often
linked with other municipal services. In a few cities the water supply
and sewerage departments have been merged into one enterprise.
Organizations in charge of water and sewerage have very low productivity
(staff levels are about five times larger than those of well-run utilities
in developing countries, and pipe breaks per kilometer of network are
about 10 times larger). Operational revenues are grossly insufficient to
cover operating costs due to very low tariffs to pay for water services,
low levels of revenue collection, insufficient metering, and low
government budget transfers to cover for wastewater services, as there are
no specific wastewater rates.The causes that brought the water and
wastewater systems to the current state of disarray cannot be solved
through the implementation of an emergency operation designed to support
key investments of small scale intended to prevent the collapse of the
systems, improve the quality of service and reduce the operation cost.
In addition, the investments made through the emergency project will not
be sustainable if a broad sector reform is not decisively implemented.
The Bank strategy, discussed and agreed with the Government, involves a
two-tier approach that focuses in the very short-term (no more than 2
years) on urgent repairs to the systems, but continues in parallel with
the preparation of a regular investment operation that will support sector
reforms. Specifically, the two tier approach to be further refined during
project preparation would include: Short-term priority investment
programUrgent rehabilitation works and interventions aimed at improving
the basic water services (quality and quantity), avoiding the collapse of
the system, and reducing operation costs; andTechnical support for basic
improvement in the operation of the water companies.Medium-term
development and investment programsRehabilitation of existing water and
wastewater infrastructure, including investments in expansion of the
wastewater collection and treatment systems and expansions of the water
supply systems to new population migrating to urban centers;
Corporatization of water and wastewater utilities under an organizational
scheme independent of city or central government and with adequate
authority, under clear tariff rules, to make operational and investment
decisions;Commercialization and cost recovery in order to achieve, through
operational revenues, coverage of at least all operating costs including
adequate maintenance and debt service obligations within a bound
timeframe;Change in the role of central government to policy and
regulatory functions including allocation of external resources;
andIncreased participation of the private sector in the management of
services.The mentioned reforms of the medium-term development and
investment program have been discussed and agreed with the Government as
part of the preparation of the Municipal Water Supply Project. This
Project envisions the participation of the private sector in the
management of the water and wastewater services in the cities of Durres,
Fier, Lezhe and Saranda.
2. Objectives
The main objective of the proposed Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation
-2 -



Project is to support the Government of Albania's (GoA) efforts to improve
the services of water supply in the municipalities of Durres, Fier, Lezhe
and Saranda. The Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project is regarded
as a forerunner of the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project which is
currently under preparation in the above mentioned municipalities. The
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project will introduce Private Sector
Participation (PSP) into Albania's water sector in the form of a
management/lease contract. The proposed Water Supply Urgent
Rehabilitation Project will bridge the gap between the present situation
and the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project with the taking over of the
private operator in one or two years. The project will rehabilitate
components of the water supply systems wich are prone to failure and/or
which are causing extremely high operation costs or health risk due to
their state of disrepair.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has had an active and significant portfolio in Albania, with over
300 million dollars of ongoing or planned investments, and has been a
primary player in supporting the reform efforts of the Government. The
Bank's leadership role in the donor community was further reinforced by
its management of the crisis that followed the collapse of the pyramid
schemes in 1997. In response to the Kosovo conflict, the Bank has
recently approved a US$45 million equivalent for a Structural Adjustment
Credit and a US$30 million equivalent Public Expenditure Support Credit.In
the water sector, the Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project is under
implementation with support from IDA. Currently IDA is preparing the
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project to assist the Government in
rehabilitating water and sewerage systems and introducing private
management in four cities. The Bank is supporting through these projects
a long-term reform of the water sector, in agreement with the goals stated
in the CAS.Although not well suited to respond to urgent needs, the Bank
does have a strong relationship with the Government and experience in
responding to the urban infrastructure challenges facing Albania, gained
through its financing of projects in the water, urban and transport
sectors. This relationship and experience will support its efforts in the
design and implementation of interventions that address both the urgent
needs emerging from the refugee crisis and the infrastructure needs that
are present throughout the country.Project implementation will require
intensive Bank involvement during preparation and the first few months of
implementation, and will require a high degree of flexibility to be able
to adapt to rapidly changing circumstances. Implementation progress will
be formally evaluated approximately six months after effectiveness, when
the project implementation should be well advanced. The Bank's Resident
Mission in Tirana will be closely involved during project preparation and
implementation to speed all decisions and prevent and mitigate delay
factors.
4. Description
Table 2: Project Components and Costs
1.   Durres -Wells, pumping station
2.   Durres- Improv. transmission main
3.   Durres Villages - Feasibility Study
4.   Fier - Well field
5.   Fier - Transmission main
6.   Lezhe - Dist. main replacement
-3-



7.   Lezhe-Wells & Pumping stations
8.   Saranda - Navarice Spring
9.   All cities: (a) Repair and (b) Operations Enhancement
10. Consultant Services (excluding feasibility study)
11. All cities - PIU
12. Unallocated
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               4.64
IBRD
IDA                      10
Total Project Cost       14.64
6. Implementation
Project Implementation will require intensive Bank involvement during
preparation and the first few months of implementation, and will require a
high degree of flexibility to be able to adapt to rapidly changing
circumstances. Implementation progress will be formally evaluated
approximately six months after effectiveness, when the project
implementation should be well advanced. The Bank's Resident Mission in
Tirana will be closely involved during project preparation and
implementation to speed all decisions and prevent and mitigate delay
factors. Project Implementation. In order to facilitate project start-up,
the PIU currently implementing the Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation
Project will be strengthened to manage this emergency project and renamed
into "Water PIU'. The PIU will be responsible for overall project
management, coordination and planning, including the preparation of the
action plan, procurement of design, goods, civil works and supervision,
financial management and reporting. The PIU will report to and coordinate
with the Directorate of Water and Wastewater of the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport. The PIU will maintain close contact and frequent
communication to ensure coordination with the municipal government and
water companies of all the cities participating in the project. Also, the
PIU will coordinate, on aspects directly related to the project, with the
international Donor Community participating in the water sector in Albania
including NGOs to avoid costly overlaps.The Durres Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project PIU currently has the following professionals in
its staff: 1 Director, engineer; 1 assistant engineer to support
procurement activities and a part time financial specialist in charge of
accounting and disbursements. The PIU would be strengthened with the
addition of an engineer and a full-time accountant. The speed of
implementation required to bring the expected benefits of the project
requires strong and specific expertise in coordination and organization of
emergency projects. To provide the additional management capability
needed to organize, supervise and control implementation of the project,
the PIU will be assisted by experienced professionals from a full service
consulting firm with strong experience in engineering, operation of water
supply systems, and implementation of emergency projects. These
professionals will form a Project Management Support Team (PMST) that will
provide broad support to the PIU. The PIU with the support of the PMST,
and in close coordination with personnel from the water companies, would
manage the assessment of the key components for urgent improvement of the
water supply systems; work scheduling; preparation of technical
specifications and designs; preparation of tender documents; procurement,
- 4 -



negotiations and award of contracts; coordination and supervision of the
construction process; monitoring and reporting; and all financial and
administrative operations associated with the implementation of the
project. The core of the PMST will be constituted by qualified engineers
specialized in water supply systems. The core team will work closely with
personnel from the water companies to implement the specific investment
components. The engineers would also prepare the bidding documents and
assist in bid evaluation. The core of the PMST will also include a
procurement advisor and financial assistants. The procurement advisor
will have extensive experience in Bank-financed infrastructure projects.
The financial assistants will support the PIU to coordinate the financial
aspects of the projects to ensure compliance with the Bank FMS guidelines,
including adequate financial management systems, accounting and financial
reporting, and auditing. Additionally, the PIU and the PMST will prepare
after two months into implementation a detailed implementation plan.     The
proposed implementation plan will be reviewed and approved by the
Government and the Bank. During the following six months, the PIU will
prepare monthly progress reports, and quarterly progress reports
thereafter which would include information on: (i) procurement; (ii)
progress in sub-project implementation; (iii) payments made to
contractors; (iv) difficulties encountered and proposed measures to
overcome them; (v) updates of the performance indicators; (vi) updates of
project cost estimates, procurement plan and implementation schedule; and
(vii) coordination activities with donor agencies.Financial Management.
The project financial management system, including accounting, financial
reporting and auditing arrangements, would be established prior to
presentation the of Credit to the World Bank Board of Directors (see
Section G2.2 of PAD). A draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which
documents the operation of the project financial management system has
been prepared. The PIP covers the following aspects of the project
financial management system: (i) internal procedures, financial and
accounting policies; flow of funds; (ii) flow of funds (iii) management of
funds - accounting system and internal control mechanisms; (iv) Chart of
Accounts; (v) financial reporting (including formats of financial
management reports); (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii) budgeting; and
(viii) organization and staffing for financial management functions. Key
actions which are in process, and which need to be completed are: (i)
recruitment by the PIU of a full-time accountant (already completed);
(ii) introduction of the accountant to the Project financial management
issues by a Financial Management Specialist (FMS) and Project Officer at
the World Bank Office in Tirana (ongoing); (iii) appointment of a firm of
Chartered Accountants as auditors for the project (this is expected to be
handled on a project portfolio-wide basis by the MoF); and (iv) completion
of development of the financial management system, including
computerization using an accounting software package developed in Albania
and already in use in other World Bank projects. The assessment of the
project financial management system will be carried out by Sandro Michiei
(FMS in the World Bank Office in Tirana). The initial assessment of a
progress in setting up project financial management system will be carried
out by negotiations, planned for mid-December 1999. This final
assessment of project financial management system is expected to be
completed by mid-January 2000, and would be a condition for Board
Presentation, planned for late January 2000.Accounting Information. The
PIU, with responsibility for orderly and efficient recording and
safeguarding of the project assets and resources would: (a) ensure
- 5 -



accountability for project funds; (b) maintain records of the sources of
funds (IDA/GOA) and the relevant accounts on a timely basis; (c) maintain
internal controls to ensure that financial records are reliable, complete
and provided on a timely basis; (d) report on the use of funds (IDA, GOA);
(e) facilitate verification of these reports by independent auditors; and
(f) provide information, as required, to the Bank. Project accounts would
be maintained by the PIU separately from any other existing accounts.
Disbursements and Financial Reporting. The PIU will manage a Special
Account in US Dollars in Albania National Bank. Disbursements from the
IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of
Expenditure - SOEs, and direct payments). During the first year of
project implementation, the PIU would submit to the Bank a quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs) following Cash Model format agreed to
IDA. The Report would include: (a) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds
Report by project categories of expenditures, showing the IDA credit and
the Government of Albania, separately in currency as determined by project
design; (b) Summary of Expenditures by project components, for the current
fiscal year and accumulated to date; (c) Summary of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) by individual application reference number and amount;
(d) Special Account Statement providing reconciliation of amounts in the
Special Account; and (e) Expenditures Report by disbursement category
during the current quarter and next quarter. At the mid-term review a
conversion to the new procedures (i.e., based on Project Management
Reports - PMRs) will be considered. The target date for the mid-term
review is one year after expected project start date.Financial Audit. PIU
would be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing to the
Bank, within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year the financial
audits of the Project that are acceptable to the Bank. The PIU would have
the required Financial Statements for each year audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank in accordance with standards that are
acceptable to the Bank (see Section G2 of PAD ). The auditor would be
appointed in sufficient time to carry out its responsibilities, including:
(a) a review of the financial management systems at the beginning of
project implementation; and (b) periodical reviews of the project
financial management systems thereafter. Monitoring and evaluation
arrangements. Project monitoring would be the responsibility of the PIU
and the MoPW. The PIU and MoPW would furnish the Bank with reports on a
regular basis including: (i) semi-annual progress and project financial
management reports; (ii) interim unaudited statements of project accounts;
and (iii) additional information that the Bank may request from time to
time. Performance monitoring and evaluation. The performance monitoring
and evaluation would be undertaken by the Bank to ensure close monitoring
of the achievements of project objectives during implementation. Key
performance indicators proposed for monitoring can be found in Annex 1. A
mid-term evaluation would be prepared during the two and a half years of
the project. Lessons learned for implementation and the activities
financed under the project would be captured in a synthesis report
prepared by the borrower with the assistance of the PIU.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project is only given if the implementation of
the following Municipal Water and Wastewater Project will be successful.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
- 6 -



Bank-wide experience shows that successful implementation of projects of
emergency nature requires: (i) a technically and operationally sound rapid
assessment of needs with a well-defined priority strategy and objectives;
(ii) simplicity in design and implementation arrangements; (iii)
willingness and flexibility to assist water companies with project
preparation; (iv) simplicity in the procurement and disbursement
procedures for efficient and rapid component implementation; (v) clear
operational procedures to guide project targeting and component selection;
(vi) need for strong supervision and financial controls at both PIU and
component levels; (vii) institutional autonomy and freedom from political
interference to allow selection and implementation of components quickly
and transparently; (viii) involvement of local entities in the selection
of components but using the established criteria to avoid emphasis on new
construction rather than operational improvements, faster repairs, and
better infrastructure maintenance actions; and (ix) emergency components
should pave the way for dealing with longer-term concerns about sector
reform.Implementation experience in civil works in Albania has shown that
there should be major emphasis on construction quality control.Emergency
operations usually demand that borrowers demonstrate a very high level of
organizational and implementation skills at a time when the system is at
its most vulnerable point, with productive assets damaged and
policy-makers, technical staff and others occupied with several competing
demands. Thus, it is important to keep projects simple and to focus on
key areas of need, doing as much up-front preparatory work as possible,
and leaving longer-term reform measures for normal sector operations.As
rapid preparation is essential for emergency projects to have the needed
impact, and normal Bank guidelines and procurement procedures could cause
delays in project execution, it is necessary to design flexible and
streamlined implementation and execution arrangements, while seeking to
ensure that overall concerns about due diligence, transparency, and
corruption prevention are addressed.A lesson learned from the ongoing
Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project is that the active
participation of the local governments/utilities is crucial for the
successful implementation of water projects in Albania. Therefore
consultations with local utilities have been intensified during the
preparation of the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project. Under the
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project it is foreseen to establish one
multi-city utility for all four cities and transfer most of the
responsibilities to the local governments.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project would finance repair and rehabilitation
of components of water supply systems. No new structure of significant
size is envisaged to be constructed under the project. Given the nature of
the rehabilitation work to be financed under this project, the project has
been classified as Environmental Category "B". During project preparation,
an environmental assessment and environmental management plan were
prepared by the environmental specialist of the project team. The detailed
EMP has been incorporated into the Project Implementation Plan.The
environmental assessment identified the following potential negative
impacts of the project: (i) inappropriate disposal of excavated
materials, construction debris, and small quantities of hazardous wastes
related to construction activities (although no hazardous wastes have yet
- 7 -



been identified and are unlikely to occur); and (ii) environmental    damage
caused by contractors during construction activities. Since most of the
rehabilitation work will be done in properties and facilities owned by
water companies or are located in rights-of-way assigned to municipal
infrastructure, the project will not entail any resettlements and will
cause no impacts to structures of cultural importance. During project
implementation, procedures will be introduced to ensure that potential
negative impacts as a result of the project are mitigated. For example,
the bidding and contract documents for construction will describe that the
rehabilitation and construction of the structure or other related
activities will be minimized though good construction practices to
prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage. These requirements
will be enforced by the supervisors during construction. Also, to avoid
extraction of sand or gravel from river beds, contract documents will
require prior approval of the Engineer for the extraction of sand and
gravel for use in construction. Contractors' requests for approval will
identify the location of authorized sand and gravel quarries or borrow
areas, and the quantities of materials to be extracted. Groundwater
extraction will also be monitored during project implementation. Water
resources control, under legislation dated 1996, is the responsibility of
the National Water Council, Technical Secretariat of the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport. The Technical Secretariat operates in
conjunction with the National Hydrogeological Service. The construction of
new wells for Durres would require the permission of the National Water
Council. Preliminary discussions with these Authorities have taken place
and it appears that permission to develop the proposed wells would not
present a difficulty, because the existing wells will be closed and the
amount of water extracted will be unchanged. In conjunction with the well
development, test wells would first be constructed and would be test
pumped for an extended period. During this period, chemical and
bacteriological analyses of water samples from the wells would be
evaluated to ensure that water quality standards are met. Supervision of
this task would be the responsibility of the PIU which would forward
results to the World Bank.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Andreas Rohde
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-6672
Fax: 202-614-0902
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
- 8 -



not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 21, 2000.
-9-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
- 10 -



