                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29687

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (PPFI-Q1820 IDA-33220)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.3 MILLION (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                                ALBANIA

                                                 FOR A

                      WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                             August 24, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective August 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Lek
                                        Lek 1 = US$ 0.00984024
                                       US$ 1 = Lek 101.624

                            WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

                              km = Kilometer (0.621 miles)
                               l = Liter (0.264 US gallons)
                            l/c*d = Liters per capita per day
                   l/sec = Liters per second (15.8 gallons per minute)
                            m3 = Cubic meter (264 gallons)
            m3/sec = Cubic meters per second (22.8 million gallons per day)
                   Mm3 = Million cubic meters (264 million gallons)


                                     FISCAL YEAR

                                    January -- December

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR   Country Portfolio Performance Review
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
EU     European Union
FRR    Financial Rate of Return
GDWS   General Directorate of Water and Sanitation
GOA    Government of Albania
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
IRR    Internal Rate of Return
MC     Management Contract
MOTAT  Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism
MTR    Mid-Term Review
MWWP   Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
NPV    Net Present Value
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PHARE  Program of Community Aid to the Countries of Central and Eastern
       Europe
PIP    Project Implementation Plan
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
PO     Private Operator
PSP    Private Sector Participation

SAR    Staff Appraisal Report
TA     Technical Assistance
TOR    Terms of Reference
WHO    World Health Organization
WSURP  Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project




                           Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
              Country Manager/Director:     Nadir Mohammed/Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                 Sector Manager/Director:   Sumter Lee Travers/Hossein Razavi
                           Team Leader:     Andreas Rohde

                                           ALBANIA
                         Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      36

Project ID: P066491                                                  Project Name: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Andreas Rohde                                           TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: August 24, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project               L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1820; IDA-33220
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (75%); Central government administration (25%)
                   Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/01/1999                                     Effective: 07/14/2000
     Appraisal: 11/09/1999                                         MTR: 11/15/2001                  04/15/2002
      Approval: 02/24/2000                                      Closing: 03/01/2004                 03/01/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ALBANIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director: Nadir Mohammed, Orsalia                              Arntraud Hartmann
                                Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:        Sumter Lee Travers, Hossein                    Walter A. Stottmann
                                Razavi
Team Leader at ICR:             Andreas Rohde                                  Augusta Dianderas
ICR Primary Author:             Arben Bakllamaja


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No



Note: As explained in the ICR text, this project addressed urgent water supply needs ahead of a follow-on project
with a strong institutional development orientation. Because institutional development impact was not expected
from the project, the "modest" rating reflects a priori expectations.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1 The main objective of the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project (WSURP) was to support the
Government of Albania's (GOA) efforts to improve the services of water supply in the municipalities of
Durres, Fier, Lezha and Saranda. The project aimed to rehabilitate components of the water supply systems
which were prone to failure and/or were causing extremely high operation costs or health risk due to their
state of disrepair. The WSURP was regarded as a forerunner of the Municipal Water and Wastewater
Project (MWWP), which is currently under implementation in the above mentioned municipalities.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had the following components.

1. Durres - Wells, Pumping Station. Component 1 - US$2.64 million

Replacement of seven well pumps and construction of seven new wells in Fushe Kuqe to replace the
existing wells. The existing ones were filled with sand and it was impossible to replace the well pumps that
were over 30 years old without drilling new wells. In addition, pumps in the pumping station were
replaced, the connections to the suction tanks were rearranged, and it was foreseen to replace the existing
break pressure tank.

2. Durres - Transmission Main Improvements. Component 2 - US$0.10 million

Construction of a valve and meter chamber on each of the 20 connections to the 700 mmm diameter
transmission main from the source of water to the Durres service reservoir. This allowed the management
of the company (after taking over of these investments by the private operator) to control the water supply
to communes and villages in the rural area located adjacent to the transmission main. The estimated
savings after the construction were in reduction of wastage and leakage of 7,300 cum/day, equivalent to an
increase of 25 percent in the water reaching service reservoir No. 4, which supplies Durres and Kavaja.

3. Durres Villages - Feasibility Study. Component 3 - US$ 0.62 million

The purpose of the study was to develop a master plan to provide controlled water supply service to Durres
rural areas with the aim to substantially reduce leakage, wastage and misuse of water in the rural areas, so
that more water reaches the city.

4. Fier - Well Field. Component 4 - US$0.86 million

Security fencing for each of the nine operating wells to reduce the risk of contamination by the public and
by domestic animals. Assess the need for a water sampling program for the wells and the nearby Vjoses
river to provide a warning system for contamination from river borne oil pollution. Rehabilitation of well
heads, replacement of the existing obsolete pumping and electrical equipment.




                                                    - 2 -

5. Fier - Distribution Main. Component 5 - US$1.20 million

The proposed works included replacement of parts of three distribution feeder mains. The mains conveyed
water from the Fier distribution service reservoir to a central valve chamber. Parts of these mains that were
severely deteriorated would be replaced, as they were constructed more than 40 years ago. They were
fabricated from thin wall, spirally wound steel pipes, which have a relatively short life. Extensive leakage
was occurring from parts of the mains.

6. Lezha - Distribution Main Replacement. Component 6 - US$0.14 million

The proposed works included replacement of a distribution main (610 m of DN 100 mm and 300 mm of
DN 80 mm) and disconnection of a supply main to a paper mill which discontinued its operations in 1991.
The water supply to the paper mill formed part of a ring main, which also supplied the communities of
Quendra and Zemra e Katundit. The configuration of the system prevented disconnection of the supply to
the paper mill without also disconnecting the supply to the two communities. A new supply line to these
two villages was therefore included.

7. Lezha - Wells and Pumping Stations. Component 7 - US$2.01 million

Lezha and the surrounding areas depended on the Barbulloja well field for water. The three operating
pumping stations at the well field were no longer reliable and were rehabilitated, including the replacement
of mechanical and electrical equipment.

8. Saranda - Navarice Spring. Component 8 - US$0.32 million

Replacement of 2,400 m of the gravity transmission main from Navarice spring to the Saranda distribution
reservoir. Replacement of feeder mains to villages including installation of valves, valve chambers, bulk
meters, a chlorination facility, and security fencing to protect the spring from contamination. Leakage from
the transmission main was extensive. The main was constructed in 1978 to serve nine villages, which
presently have an aggregate population of about 6,600, and to bring gravity water to the city of Saranda.
The yield of the spring varied seasonally from 30 to 70 lbs.

9. All Cities. a) Repair - US$0.44 million, and b) Operation Enhancement - US$0.70 million.

3.4 Revised Components:

There was no major revision of components. Only one component, the Fier Well Field component,
was removed from the project financing. This component could have only been carried out after or in
parallel to the rehabilitation of the main pumping station and the raw water main which was supposed to be
funded by the PHARE Program, but did not materialize in time. Therefore, the component had to be
postponed to be implemented under the MWWP, under which procurement for this component is currently
under way.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

A quality at entry assessment was not carried out by QAG. Quality at entry is rated satisfactory in the
ICR. The project was not included in the CAS of July 1998, as the need for this project only became
apparent due to the large influx of refugees during the Kosovo Crisis in 1999, which put an additional
strain on the water supply system. Therefore, the WSURP was added later in the CAS Progress Report of



                                                      - 3 -

March 2001: "A Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project, approved by the IDA Board on February 24,
2000, will ensure the minimum quantity and quality of water, and also help lay the foundation for the
Government's medium-term water supply strategy."

The project supported the strategic priorities of the CAS Progress Report, to improve access to safe
drinking water infrastructure, which was at the same time an important element of the poverty alleviation
strategy.

Despite the short-term urgent nature of this project, it was designed to facilitate the overall medium-term
reform strategy outlined for the water sector by the Albanian Government in a Policy Letter which included
measures such as: transformation of state-owned water enterprises into commercial entities; removal of
caps on tariffs to achieve cost recovery; and introduce private sector participation in the water sector. The
Policy Letter from the GOA was a condition for project negotiation to show the Government's commitment
towards reform implementation. To assure the continuity of sector reform during project implementation,
the project implementation was linked by a disbursement condition to award a management contract under
the follow-up project, the MWWP.

The major issues and risks identified at project preparation, included: (a) technical standards used for civil
works, repairs and installations are not adequate; (b) components identified and implemented are not
sufficient to bring noticeable improvements in water service; (c) counterpart financing is not available; (d)
delays occur in hiring additional personnel for the PIU; (e) capacity of local construction industry is not
adequate to implement components; (f) supply of goods to Albania suffers delays; and (g) decisions by
local and central government are slow and delay project implementation. The project design incorporated
measures to mitigate the above risks such as: (a) accelerate the preparation of the MWWP to introduce
private Sector Participation (PSP) in the form of an international water utility management contract as soon
as possible; (b) request including the counterpart financing in the national budget for the year 2000; (c)
Bank supports preparation of terms of reference (TORs) and personnel for the PIU; (d) the Bank's
procurement specialist in Tirana provides additional support; (e) procurement of one large ICB contract,
which can shift construction capacity between the four cities; and (f) intensive communication between the
Bank and local/central government supported by the field office.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project's outcome is rated satisfactory, as it achieved its objectives to maintain and improve the
services of water supply in the municipalities of Durres, Fier, Lezha and Saranda. More than 45,000
additional people are now receiving water at or above the minimum water quantity of 80 liters per capita
per day (l/c/d) in all four cities. This minimum has been set in agreement with the General Water and
Sanitation Directorate of MOTAT in the context of the country, which has abundant water resources and
about 85 percent of the urban population is connected to piped water systems. This minimum water
quantity was also justified by experience in other countries, where households are equipped with similar
water consuming appliances, and in which good demand management has shown that people cannot reduce
their water consumption below this limit without sacrificing their living standard. In addition, the average
consumption of the population still receiving less than 80 l/c/d has increased from 36-45 l/c/d to 49-59
l/c/d. All this took place despite the continuous population growth and general aging of the network. The
water quality improved and no water-related health incidents were observed during project implementation.
The energy savings due to the project were about 6.3 million KWh, which equals annual savings in
operating costs of about US$259,000. The project not only prevented the system from any major collapse,



                                                     - 4 -

but also improved substantially the water supply due to the interventions in the critical points of the
network.

The project design recognized the lack of management capacity at the utility level and was therefore linked
by a disbursement condition to award a management contract under the follow-up project, the MWWP,
which has the main objective to introduce sustainable utility management. The WSURP was designed in a
way that would enable it to bridge the gap before the implementation of the MWWP could take place and
also to facilitate service improvements which good management can bring about. This was, for example,
achieved by building lockable valve chambers with metered connection at transmission mains, which gives
management the necessary tools to introduce demand management.

There were some delays during the first phase of implementation. The biggest civil works contract was
signed between the Minister and the Meregalli Company on July 3, 2002, seven months after the
no-objection from the Bank. This was because the new minister launched an investigation of all recently
awarded, large contracts. The disbursements on the major rehabilitation investments were linked to a
condition that required that the management contract be awarded in 2000, which was postponed due to
delays because it took MOTAT seven months to create the working group for the preparation of the MC.
The contracts for the PIU director and the staff discontinued for a couple of months, because a new
minister needed that time to decide if he wanted to continue with the existing staff or hire new ones. This
also brought about delays in the procurement of major investments. The delays experienced during
implementation were mainly due to changes at the government level which resulted in the reorganization of
responsibilities for project implementation. Therefore, at the request of the GOA, the Bank decided to
extend the closing date of the credit by one year. However, despite the delays the physical investments for
the water supply systems were implemented properly with acceptable quality in construction and
supervision.

Achievements of project outputs

(a) Improving the water quality by installation of chlorination equipment and other interventions


      Indicator        Town    Year of base           Baseline               Final Indicator
                                indicator                                 June 2003 ­ May 2004
  Samples                                    Residual Cl     Coliform   Residual Cl     Coliform
  conforming to       Durres      2000         56.4 %         92.1 %     91.87 %        95.87 %
  World Health        Fier        2000         28.8 %         96.0 %      95.5 %        95.85 %
  Organization        Lezha       2001         10.7 %         63.0 %     35.46 %         100 %
  (WHO) standards     Saranda     2000         29.4 %         88.2 %      96.3 %        98.45 %


The project helped to establish sufficient water quality (complying with WHO's coliform standards in 95
percent or more of the samples) in all four cities. This is especially important in Lezha, where the water at
the project start was not safe to drink. The improvements in the water quality in Lezha were achieved
despite the fact that the concentration of residual chlorine, although it has increased substantially, is still
relatively low. This was possible because Lezha is the only project city that has continuous supply so that
the network rehabilitation of the most critical points together with an substantial increase of the chlorine
concentration was sufficient to reach good water quality. It is worthwhile to mention that all four cities
have excellent water quality at the source, and that the coliform concentrations observed at the beginning of
the project were caused by impurities in the pipes (especially in places with intermittent supply) and
inefficient chlorination.




                                                     - 5 -

(b) Increasing the quantity of water supplied to the customers, who received insufficient quantities of water
or no water at all at the beginning of the project

                                                        Baseline                       Final Indicator
                                                                                            2003
     Indicator     Town     Year of base
                              indicator            %            People             %              People


   Number of      Durres        2001            36.50 %         55,972            53.00           87,238
   people
   receiving      Fier          2002            84.60 %         66,044            84.00           68,342
   above 80 l/c/d
                  Lezha         2002            97.25 %         33,892            97.33           35,523

                  Saranda       2002            44.30 %         13,600            74.30           23,702

   Average                      2001              2002           2003                          Increase (%)
   increase of    Durres     42.13 l/c/d            -          49.05 l/c/d                        16.4 %
   quantity for   Fier            -            45.2l/c/d       53.20 l/c/d                        17.7 %
   customers      Lezha                Statistically not measurable (see below)
   below 80       Saranda           -                35.8 l/c/d         58.7 l/c/d                64.0 %
   l/c/d


The results in 2003 showed that more than 45,000 additional consumers received water at or above the
minimum water quantity of 80 liters per capita per day (l/c/d) in all four cities. In addition, the average
consumption of the population still receiving less than 80 l/c/d has increased from 36-45 l/c/d to 49-59
l/c/d. The only city where this parameter could not be applied was Lezha, because the town has 24 hours
of water supply and even at project start, 97 percent of the customers consumed more than 80 l/c/d.
Changes in water consumption by only 3 percent of the customers could not be captured in a statistically
relevant manner by the monitoring system.

For Durres and Saranda additional data is available until May 2004 which improves the results further. In
Durres and Saranda the percentage of people receiving above 80 l/c/d from June 2003 until May 2004
increased to 57.57 and 77.5 respectively. The number of people receiving above 80 l/c/d for the same
period is 95,507 and 25,169. This further increase was expected because the annual average of 2003
cannot capture all improvements achieved by the projects due to some investment components being
completed later that year. In addition, the full benefits of some of the investments can only be gained
through the improved management under the MWWP.




                                                           - 6 -

(c) Decreasing the high electricity consumption/cost where economically justified


    Indicator       Town       Year of base            Baseline
                                indicator                                       Final Indicator

  Reduction in                                      KWh annually        KWh annually           Saving
  electrical
  consumption    Durres           2000                35,613,600         30,504,000           4,920,000

                 Fier                                                 See below.

                 Lezha            2001                 5,889,000          4,224,000           2,016,000

                 Saranda          2001             No gravity water        403,102             403,102


In Durres and Lezha substantial annual electricity savings of about US$201,193 and US$82,649
respectively were achieved by project closing. In Fier the foreseen savings in electricity consumption could
not be realized because the component for well field upgrade dropped out due to the delays of the PHARE
Program financing (see para. 4.2.4.). In the future the investment in Saranda together with the demand
management under the MWWP will lead to energy savings from the increase in gravity water supply from
Navarice springs, which was achieved under the project.. The gravity water will replace some of the
pumped water from another source, as soon as the demand management and network management under
the MWWP reduces the need of high water production quantities. Presently the additional gravity water is
just used to increase the water production and not to substitute pumped water, therefore the energy savings
do not translate into savings of energy costs yet, but are expected to do so under the MWWP soon.

(d) The impact on water losses in the parts of the network included in this project


  Indicator           Town             Target at Project Beginning    Achieved at Project End

  Reduction in        Durres                 0.14 million m3               1.89 million m3
  water losses         Fier                   0.7 million m3               1.08 million m3
                      Lezha                  0.85 million m3               0.89 million m3
                      Saranda                 1.4 million m3               0.6 million m3
                     All towns               3.09 million m3               4.46 million m3


* The target was taken from the Economic Analysis in the PAD, which for unknown reason is
different from the target provided in table 3 in the PAD.

Overall, the project over-achieved the target to reduce the technical losses in the project area. This has led
to substantially higher water consumption as shown in the table under (b). The results in Durres are much
better than expected in the PAD. This is partly due to an increase in investment volume. It is anticipated
that the results in Lezha and Saranda will improve further when the private operator will operate the
investment properly. In both cases the technical means to disconnect people from the water main and to
provide them with alternative and controllable supply were set in place under the project and the private
operator has now started to implement this scheme. This is another example which shows the importance
of the linkage with the MWWP.

(e) Decreasing the risk of complete failure of the water supply by well targeted investments in critical
points of the network.

The project invested in the rehabilitation of pumping stations that were very completely dilapidated and
prone to failure. These pumps had exceeded their lifetime by a factor of three and it was impossible to



                                                          - 7 -

keep them working, despite the desperate repairs which included handmade repairs of impellers. In
addition, the switchboards had rotted away and complete failure was imminent. By the same token, some
parts of the network were over aged and the utilities could not follow up with leak repair in places where
replacement should have occurred years ago. Both kinds of interventions were considered key to sustain
the water supply system and maintain stable water flow. (See outputs by component).

The project repaired about 1,224 leaks, which contributed to the reduction of water losses, and, even more
important, reduced the risk of water contamination. This was a one time action to cope with the deferred
maintenance. The private operator under the MWWP is now establishing a sustainable leak detection and
repair program.

The impacts of the investments carried out in the rural areas of Durres and Saranda were very much
dependent on physical improvements as well as improvements in management and operation. This link was
clearly identified during project design and is the reason why the project was linked closely with the
MWWP, which introduced private management of the water utilities. The private operator has now
designed an Action Plan      with full support from the central and local governments.         The ongoing
implementation of the Action Plan has already brought additional improvements which led to making full
use of the investments.

The mid-term review (MTR) took place on April 15, 2002.

The project team carried out the mid-term review of the project on April 15, 2002. The MTR conclusion
was that the project would most likely achieve its objectives and no major change nor reorientation of the
project as a whole or of any of its components was necessary. Nonetheless, the MTR recognized that
design changes had been made in some of the components to adjust for the results from field investigations
and hydraulic modeling in order to ensure that the project objectives could be fully achieved. Necessary
changes in rehabilitation works were identified and implemented to maximize the project's impact. The
MTR recognized the design changes due to the outcomes of the hydraulic modeling, the problems derived
from the delayed implementation of the EU PHARE investment, and the difficulties derived from the
frequent changes at the ministerial level, and recommended to extend the closing date to optimize the use of
the available funds. The Country Unit agreed with the recommendation of the project team and extended
the project by one year. This extension was very much appreciated by the Client.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1   Design changes were made in some of the components to adjust for the results from field
investigations and hydraulic modeling in order to ensure that the project objectives could be fully achieved.
Additional rehabilitation works were identified and implemented to maximize the project's impact.

4.2.2   Durres well field, pumping station and pressure-break point chamber (US$2.736 million).

The reduction of energy consumption and operation enhancement of the pumping station in Fushe Kuqe
was fully achieved through: a) the replacement of the six existing wells with new wells drilled in the same
compound and extracting the same amount of water from the same aquifer; b) replacement of high lift
pumps; c) surge protection; d) rehabilitation of overhead lines; and e) re-arranging of suction pipe work
and installation of water hammer protection.      Due to these investments, the pumps consumed about 4.9
million kWh/year less in 2004 than in 2000 which is considerably more than the estimated benefits at
appraisal (1.7 million kWh).




                                                    - 8 -

The other expected benefits under this component were to eliminate the leaks through the replacement and
rearrangement of the collection system to the existing suction tanks and replacement of the break pressure
tank at Kurata. In fact, rehabilitation of the break pressure tank was not executed because the utility
manager, who was a different one than the one during appraisal, was not willing to interrupt the water
supply to the city, which would have been necessary to allow for the repair. The repair of the suction tanks
resulted in the water loss reduction of about 47,300 m3 in 2003.

4.2.3     Durres Transmission Main (US$2.644 million). The improvement of distribution capacity of the
transmission main and networks in the rural area was achieved. The originally envisaged rehabilitation
activities along the transmission main were changed. The number of connections (i.e. valve chambers)
along the transmission main with the distribution network of villages and communes was increased to 25
and installation of additional devices, such as air valves, wash out valves, flow meters were completed. To
cut down the impact of illegal connections, a new transmission main was constructed between the
Xhafzotaj to the Durres city (reservoir 1 or 2) that improved the water supply into the city and a parallel
line from Xhafzotaj to the villages in Arapaj. Also, to reduce the practice of illegal connections and
facilitate operation, the construction of a new parallel line from the Fushe-Kruje pumping station to Shilore
service reservoir was added, which increased the water supply to Durres significantly. These investments
contributed to daily savings of about 3,205m3 in 2003 from the Fushe Kruje transmission main, and 2,505
m3/day from the new Fushe-Kuqe transmission main. In total there were 5,174 m3/day savings, or
1,885,510 m3/year.       Apart from the 2,505 m3/day Fushe-Kuqe savings already achieved in 2003,
additional savings of another 2,500 m3/day are expected to materialize in the second half of 2004 when the
private operator has fully implemented his operational plans for the new investment. The Action Plan
prepared by the private operator, and agreed with the local government in Durres, became operational in
May 2004 and the water supply to the villages is getting under better control. Therefore, an increase of
water supply to the city started since February 2004 and continues to increase.

The investments costs for this component increased from US$0.1 to 2.54 million from what was estimated
at appraisal. Funds for this substantial increase became available through the postponement of the Fier
Well Field Component and shifting of resources from the Lezha Rehabilitation of Wells Component, in
which a review of the investment showed that the rehabilitation of two instead of three pumps is sufficient
to fulfill the needs of the city.

4.2.4     Fier Well Field Upgrade (US$0.004million). Although under the project the design of the wells
field upgrade was completed, this component was not implemented due to the delays of the EU PHARE
Program which had planned to finance the replacement of nine pumps and the new connecting water main.
Because of the interdependence between these two components, the Fier well field upgrade was postponed
and is planned to be implemented by the PO under the MWWP. The only costs occurred where some costs
for pump tests and water analysis carried out.

4.2.5     Fier Distribution Mains (US$2.496 million). Leakage reduction due to repair of water mains
was achieved. Under the project three feeder mains were replaced by a new 800 mm DCI line, of about 3
km from Koshevica reservoir to Fier. Additional investments for the replacement of about 9.5 km of the
ring main in the distribution network took place. The west side of the ring main will be completed under
the MWWP. The total savings for 2003 were about 1.08 million m3. Due to the reduction in physical
losses about 75,800 people were supplied with about 304,577 m3 of additional drinking water in 2003. In
addition about 80,300 m3 of water were supplied to about 5,500 people who were living in the northern
outskirts of the city in 2003. The above mentioned service improvement would have been even higher,
would not the water inflow into the distribution network have been reduced by 22 l/sec. This reduction
took place because the inflow from the well field to the service reservoir decreased by 107 l/sec due to


                                                      - 9 -

further deterioration of the raw water main which was not rehabilitated in a timely manner under the EU
PHARE project (underway now). The reduction of water inflow into the reservoir from the well field was
only partly offset by a reduction of water consumption from the oil refinery from 150 l/s to 65 l/s. This
shows that without this component the water supply in Fier would have been severely deteriorated and that
the project was able to turn that around and made improvements to the water supply.

4.2.6    Lezha - Distribution Main (US$0.694 million).          This component achieved the objective to
improve water supply to the Lezha and Shengjin communities and increased the water consumption by
about 197,000 m3 in 2003. This was due to the replacement of two distribution mains and the construction
of a new transmission main from the well field to the reservoir. This increase in water consumption took
place despite the fact that new settlements between the town and the well field area at Barbulloja are
withdrawing additional water from the system. The loss reduction is estimated to equal 893,000 m3 per
year which is above the benefits estimated in the PAD. Please note that the estimated benefits of 21 l/sec
estimated in the PAD for the disconnection of the paper mill equals 660,000 m3per year and not 3.2 million
cubic meter as stated in the PAD in table 3.

4.2.7    Lezha - Rehabilitation of Wells and Chlorination Unit (US$1.138 million). The rehabilitation
of the wells and pumping stations were carried out by drilling two new wells and installing two new pumps
(by keeping the existing withdrawal capacity). Also, surge protection and chlorination equipment were
installed. The investments resulted in the reduction of energy consumption by 2.02 million kWh for 2003
compared to 2001.

4.2.8    Saranda - Navarice Spring and Transmission Main (US$0.249 million). The objective to
reduce the leakage and provide reliable controlled water supply to the villages and save energy was
achieved. The investments for installation of new valve and bulk meter chambers for the villages, and new
pipes for Caush and Tremuli villages in order to disconnect the existing individual connections were
completed. Therefore, the water inflow into Saranda increased significantly by 1,750 m3/day. However,
this is lower than 3,040 m3/day, which were technically feasible and were expected at appraisal to reach
the city in winter, when the yield of the spring is higher than in summer. This is another example of how
important it was that the project was linked with the MWWP. The PO prepared an Action Plan to properly
operate the water supplied to the villages, which has been agreed with local government authorities. The
implementation of this will boost the water supplied to the town by gravity from the Navarica source, and
in the coming winter the above mentioned target of 3,040 m3/day should be reached. The potential energy
savings will only translate into energy cost savings after the operator has reduced over-consumption,
misuse and wastage, and pumped water can be substituted by gravity water.

4.2.9    All cities ­ Repair of Visible Leakage (US$0.305 million).          This component achieved its
objective to increase the water supply in the system due to leaks repaired as follows: Durres ­ 838 leaks
repaired equal to 412,900 m3/year; Fier ­ 222 leaks repaired equal to 109,390 m3/year; and Lezha ­ 164
leaks repaired equal to 80,811 m3/year. Due to the lack of proper leak repair management of the water
utility, new leaks emerged that are currently reversing the improvements in the above towns. As mentioned
above, this was a one time action and the PO has started to repair the leaks and establish an effective leak
detection and repair program.

4.2.10 Operation Enhancement Component. (US$0.343 million). As a result of the network analysis,
flow measurements, basic measurements and hydraulic modeling, necessary investment changes were
identified and implemented. These investment changes were: a) installation of pressure reducers (partly) at
village connections in Fushe Kuqe and Fushe Kruje transmission to reduce losses in the village distribution;
b) parallel lines and water meters especially at the Fushe Kuqe transmission main and the Fushe Kruje


                                                     - 10 -

transmission main; c) installation of bulk water meters at the reservoirs and transmission mains; and d) new
transmission main from Xhafzotaj to reservoir 1 and 2 to reduce losses in the Xhafzotaj and Arapaj area.
This enabled the utility of Durres to enhance the control of water distribution and achieve equal distribution
in different parts of the network.

4.2.11 Durres Rural Water Supply Feasibility Study (US$0.161 million).                 The objective was to
develop alternative solutions on how to efficiently control the water supply to the villages. The study was
completed and accepted. Because of the existing study, the OPEC Fund is financing recommended
investments for about 11 villages. Construction is ongoing and is planned for completion in April 2005.
The PO is expected to establish a proper water supply regime for these villages after the completion of the
investments from the OPEC Fund, which would make available more water to Durres city.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

 Component                    Economic Rate of Return                         Net Present Value
                          At completion        Appraisal            At completion            Appraisal

 Durres Well Field,
 Pumping Station and
 Pressure Break
 Chamber                      12%                35%            22.38 million Lek       1,202.72 million Lek
 Component (Capital
 cost: 248.09 million
 Lek)

 Durres Transmission
 Main (Capital cost:          46%                53%            474.70 million Lek      101.55 million Lek
 236.94 million Lek)

 Fier Distribution
 Main (Capital cost:          20%                 8%            226.93 million Lek      -6.27 million Lek
 330.33 million Lek)

 Lezha Distribution
 Main (Capital cost:          11%                29%            4.12 million Lek        31.06 million Lek
 60.96 million Lek)

 Lezha Rehabilitation
 of Wells and                 82%                10%            284.52 million Lek      -1.28 million Lek
 Pumping Stations
 (Capital cost: 104.03
 million Lek)

 Saranda Navarice
 Spring and                   156%               11%            122.09 million Lek      3.16 million Lek
 Transmission Main
 (Capital cost: 22.12
 million Lek)


 Total                                                          1,134.74 million Lek    1,330.94 million Lek




                                                   - 11 -

The table above summarizes the project results. All six components have a IRR above 10 percent and a
positive NPV. The differences of IRR and NPV between Appraisal and ICR are explained with: a)
changes in capital investment costs; b) changes in water and energy savings;             c) changes in the
methodology of the ICR. (See Annex 3 for detailed analysis). Overall, the economic project results were
beneficial since the project components taken together yielded a positive NPV.

The methodology used for the economic analysis in the ICR differs from that one that was used at appraisal
in two main aspects. First, at appraisal the willingness to pay for the improved water supply was used as a
proxy to calculate the benefits for Durres and for one component in Lezha. For Fier and Saranda, the
marginal costs of water produced were used instead as a proxy. In the ICR, the willingness to pay was
used as a proxy for Fier and Saranda, because it can be assumed that because of the water shortage and
low consumption level, any additional water arriving at the customer has an economic value. Therefore the
incremental water supply due to water loss reduction was valued at the weighted average water tariff for
the component in Fier, Durres and Saranda. For the distribution main component in Lezha in the ICR the
benefits were valued at the marginal costs of water production as used at Appraisal, because the water
supply in Lezha is about 24 hours per day and the consumption on average is above 500 l/c/d. For Lezha
Rehabilitation of Wells Component the weighted average tariff was maintained in the ICR as used at
Appraisal because of the assumption that equipment would totally fail and the water production would be
lost.

Second, at appraisal the discounted factor for the losses in the distribution network was taken only for
Durres transmission main component. In the ICR the discounted water losses factor was also applied to the
Fier, and Saranda components.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No financial rate-of-return has been re-estimated since none was calculated at appraisal. The Water
Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project was supposed to bridge the gap before the implementation of the
MWWP could start. The financial analysis is addressed under the MWWP and it has been estimated that
all cities will improve financially.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. This project was of an urgent nature and did not include any direct conditionality linked to
institutional changes, but indirectly it did by linking it to the MWWP which addresses long-term
institutional problems. Despite the urgent nature, the project had an impact on the participating utilities by
focusing on operational improvements. The technical staff increased their knowledge of the disinfection
systems to improve water quality, detection and repair of pipe breaks to reduce water losses, installation of
pumps working with high efficiency to reduce operation costs, installation of lockable valve chambers, etc.,
to improve distribution of water between different users and other operational improvements.

4.5.2. The development of a benchmarking system in four cities was an innovation that was implemented
for the first time in Albania. It greatly improved the measurement of the project progress and impact on the
ground. This activity was led by the PIU with the assistance from a consultant and in cooperation with the
four utilities. This contributed to building new knowledge and experience and created the basis to scale up
this activity to the entire sector. Under the MWWP, the utility performance indicators are integrated in the
management contract and utility benchmarking, and monitoring will be supported on a national scale.




                                                     - 12 -

4.5.3. During implementation of the WSURP, the four utilities under the project carried out institutional
improvements as a requirement of the MWWP preparation, such as:              merging sewerage with water
management; increasing water tariffs; and, for the first time, introducing sewerage tariffs. All this has
increased the billing base of the customers and positively affected the increase of the billed revenues of the
four utilities. The sewerage service was a function of the municipality and was funded 100 percent by the
government budget. Due to the implementation of sewerage tariffs,             the subsidy from the central
government budget has been reduced to equal the collected amount.

4.5.4. MOTAT has continued with the sector reform implementation, including: (a) more utilities were
transformed into commercial entities; (b) water tariffs increased gradually in many water utilities, although
still far away from cost recovery level; (c) new tariffs for sewerage services were introduced; (d) in a
number of cities sewerage was merged with water utilities under one management; (e) the Parliament issued
laws for implementation of private sector participation (PSP) in some cities; and (f) the GOA prepared and
approved the National Water and Sanitation Strategy and the Rural Water and Sanitation Strategy.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The sharp devaluation of the SDR vis-à-vis the EURO by about 15 percent had a negative impact on the
amount of investments possible under the project, because all of the large construction contracts were
denominated in EURO. Without the depreciation of the SDR, more investment would have been possible.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Despite the progress on the sector reform, the frequent changes of the ministers in MOTAT affected the
regular work of the PIU. In one case the Minister discontinued the PIU Director and staff contracts for
about five months, because he was pondering replacing the staff, but in the end did not do so. This slowed
down the project's procurement.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The implementing agency for the project was the PIU which was under MOTAT and reported directly to
the minister. However, unlike the Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, the PIU policy was to
establish effective cooperation with utility management and local authorities of the cities under the project
with regard to investments planning and implementation. Also, the PIU has performed well in the financial
management of the credit, timely disbursement and payment of the contractors, and in properly handling the
procurement process while trying to mitigate all delays and carry out the physical investments in
cooperation with all utilities and local government units.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total costs estimated in the PAD was US$14.64 million. The financing of the project was estimated as
follows: a) IDA - US$10 million equivalent of 7.3 million SDR; and b) GOA ­ US$4.64 million. At
closing, IDA financing was 7.3 million SDR or US$9.929 equivalent. The GOA financed US$3.241
million. The GOA financed 10 percent of the baseline cost as agreed during project preparation. The
lower amount of the GOA contribution compared with the amount at appraisal is due to a smaller than
estimated amount of taxes and duties. All available IDA funds were used. The actual project costs by
component in USD terms are different from what was anticipated at appraisal. The reasons for differences
in project cost expressed in USD by component (see Annex 2) are: additional or changed activities not
foreseen at appraisal and the devaluation of the USD vis-à-vis the EURO (most contracts were in EURO).



                                                     - 13 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The WSURP outputs are likely to be sustained, because the start up of it was meant to bridge the gap
between the situation in 2000, when the project was approved, and the MWWP with the private operator in
2003. This was regarded as the best way to assure sustainability of the planned interventions. Under the
MWWP an incentive-based multi-city management contract covering the four cities included under the
Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project was awarded in 2003 to a Private Operator to improve the
management of the four water utilities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. The Bank's strategy is to substantially improve the water and sewerage sector in Albania by
bringing the private sector in the management as a first phase of long-term sustainable improvements in the
sector. The private operator will strengthen the management and operation of the Water Companies under
the project. The project has developed performance indicators to monitor and evaluate the performance of
the private operator. This monitoring system will help the local authorities to strengthen their supervision
and evaluation capacities of the utility performance and of the management contract.

6.2.2. The institutional changes which took part during the preparation of the MWWP, such as
transformation of state-owned utilities into commercial entities, increased water tariffs gradually but
constantly toward cost recovery, new tariffs for sewerage services were introduced, and merging sewerage
with water utilities under one management, have created the ground for institutional strengthening by the
PO.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

IDA lending performance is rated satisfactory. The project design was consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and with the GOA's sector policy, and priorities which emerged from the
Kosovo refugee crisis. It was built on the experience from the previous Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation
Project, which was rated unsatisfactory, but the lessons learned were incorporated in the design within the
frame of the urgent nature of the WSURP.

The project was the first significant effort among donors aimed at helping the government to respond to the
demand for water supply and sanitation services for the hundreds of thousands of refugees from Kosovo.
The project implemented for the first time the benchmarking system of indicators for four cities. It linked
the project approval with the sector reform continuation from the central government and the disbursements
on major rehabilitation investments with awarding the management contract. The project involved, for the
first time, local governments and paved the path for the follow-up cooperation with them for the MWWP.
It also assisted the GOA to embark on a suitable strategy for attracting private sector partners for the
commercial operation of the water systems through the Policy Letter on sector reform strategy. This Policy
Letter laid down the principals of the sector reform the Government wanted to embark on and its adoption
was a condition to be fulfilled at negotiation. The project approach allowed the government to test various
policy recommendations such as, transformation of state owned utilities into commercial entities, water
tariffs increasing, new tariffs for sewerage services were introduced, merging sewerage with water utilities



                                                    - 14 -

under one management, involvement of the local government units, benchmarking indicators, and learning
from the response of local government units and utilities under this project. It helped the Albanian
counterpart to focus efforts on a few indicators that were crucial for the real progress of water utilities
under the project. Although the project did not anticipate any financial condition for the participating
utilities, it did prepare the financial and technical feasibility of the sub-investments.

7.2 Supervision:

The project was actively and adequately supervised and the content of Bank discussions with the borrower
correctly identified weaknesses in implementation. This was made possible by the supervision missions that
monitored progress of the project, not only at the utility level, but also with respect to programmed levels of
sector reform strategy. The World Bank Country Office in Albania also fielded a financial management
specialist, who during the implementation worked with the borrower on more specific issues to solve
disbursement problems and to establish and monitor proper financial management of the project. Bank
supervision was extended to each participating city, which helped to identify and solve issues with the
responsible municipalities on time and helped also to create ownership at the local level.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The role of the Borrower during the project preparation is rated satisfactory. Under the urgent situation in
the country the project was prepared in only six months. The central and local government counterparts
were very active and cooperative in providing their contribution. The project team consulted with the
municipalities of the four cities that were under the high pressure of the Kosovar refugees who were
accommodated in big camps or hosted by individual families.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

MOTAT did not play a strong supervisory role in timely implementation of all project components, and due
to the frequent changes of the ministers and the above mentioned delays, the project closing date was
extended by one year. However, the central government did not intervene in the decision-making process
during project implementation at the sub-project level, which allowed the project team to work faster and
more effectively at the local level. Also, the Government allocated on time the counterpart funds in the
amount needed.

In view of the Policy Letter which the Government submitted to the Bank as commitment to the sector
reform, MOTAT did play more the role of a facilitator than a champion in the decentralization reform in
the water sector. One of the main reasons was, as mentioned above, the frequent minister changes in
MOTAT.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The Project Implementation Unit is rated satisfactory. The PIU was adequately staffed and effective. This
is because MOTAT decided to maintain the PIU staff who had gained good knowledge and experience
during the implementation of the Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project and performed very well.
The technical, financial and managerial capacity of the PIU staff was strengthened through support and


                                                       - 15 -

technical assistance from a consulting firm. The PIU also showed good capacity in coordinating with the
water utilities and Municipalities of the four cities for implementation of the project components and
making the necessary changes in agreement with the recipient city. During the five-month period when the
staff contracts were not renewed, the PIU continued to work informally.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The Borrower allocated from the central budget the
counterpart contribution to the project every year without delays, and at the end of the project all
components were completed. Although with some delays, the Borrower's contribution to the award of the
management contract under the MWWP, which was linked by a disbursement condition with the
implementation of the project, was satisfactory. However, the changes at the minister level led to delays in
procurement which delayed project implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

Some of the lessons learned during this project are noted below.

   ·    Participation of the four utilities and municipalities during the project implementation was key to
        design and execute the project investments in response to the local needs. Cooperation with four
        utilities and municipalities in the project implementation created more ownership and support of the
        project, which in the end eased the timely implementation.

   ·    The frequent changes of the ministers in MOTAT is becoming a chronic problem with continuous
        negative impact on maintaining continuity and commitment. Therefore, working with the local
        government units in the framework of ongoing decentralization has contributed to increasing their
        commitment to and support of the project implementation, and overcoming obstacles.

   ·    Benchmarking developed as a pilot in this project was an innovative idea implemented for the first
        time in Albania's water sector, which allowed the local authorities and the project team to measure
        the project progress and impact on the ground.         The GDWS of MOTAT will scale up the
        benchmarking to cover 75 percent of the urban population. This will be done through Bank
        assistance under the technical assistance (TA) component of the MWWP starting in 2004.

   ·    Working in good partnership with the government on this investment project has created a positive
        environment between the Government and the Bank, which helped address institutional issues at the
        sector and utility level during implementation of the WSURP and preparation of the MWWP, such
        as: transformation of utilities into commercial entities, merging sewerage with water management,
        increasing water tariffs, and introducing for the first time the sewerage tariffs, which positively
        affected the increase of the billed revenues of four utilities, and the preparation for the upcoming
        management contract with a private operator.




                                                     - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

The project did not have cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

See annexes.




                                             - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of people for which the water supply Durres -- 55,972 (year 2001)                Durres -- 87,238 (year 2003)
improved from <80l/c*d to >80l/c*d.            Fier -- 66,044 (year 2002)               Fier -- 68,342 (year 2003)
                                               Lezha -- 33,892 (year 2002)              Lezha -- 35,523 (year 2003)
                                               Saranda -- 13,600 (year 2002)            Saranda -- 23,702 (year 2003)

Portion of samples complying with WHO          Durres -- 56.4%/92.1% (year 2000)        Durres -- 91.87%/95.87%
standards for residual chlorine and coliforms Fier -- 28.8%/96% (year 2000)             (06/2003-05/2004)
                                               Lezha -- 10.7%/63.0% (year 2001)         Fier -- 95.5%/95.85%
                                               Saranda -- 29.4 %/88.2% (year 2000)      (06/2003-05/2004)
                                                                                        Lezha --35.46%/100%
                                                                                        (06/2003-05/2004)
                                                                                        Saranda -- 96.3%/98.45%
                                                                                        (06/2003-05/2004)

Quantity of water supplied to customer which Durres -- 42.13 l/c/d (2001)               Durres -- 49.05 l/c/d (12/2003)
before the project were getting insufficient   Fier -- 45.20 l/c/d (2002)               Fier -- 53.20 l/c/d (12/2003)
quantities of water (< 80 l/c*d)               Lezha -- Not applicable                  Lezha -- Not applicable
                                               Saranda -- 35.80 l/c/d (2002)            Saranda -- 58.70 l/c/d (12/2003)

Reduction in electricity consumption in total  Durres -- 35,613,600 kWh/a (2000)        Durres -- 30,504,000 kWh/a (2004)
and in kWh/m3 produced                         Fier -- Not applicable                   Fier -- Not applicable
                                               Lezha -- 5,889,000 kWh/a (2001)          Lezha -- 4,224,000 kWh/a (2005)
                                               Saranda -- No savings                    Saranda -- 403,102 kWh/a (no savings in
                                                                                        2004)

Reduction in physical water losses in parts of Target:                                  Durres -- 1.89 million m3 (2003)
network improved under the project in total    Durres -- 0.14 million m3                Fier -- 1.08 million m3 (2003)
(m3/year)                                      Fier -- 0.7 million m3                   Lezha -- 0.89 million m3 (2003
                                               Lezha -- 0.85 million m3                 Saranda -- 0.6 million m3 (2003)
                                               Saranda -- 1.4 million m3


Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Durres - Wells, pumping station and break 1. Operational in accordance with Project  Contract completed and closed
pressure tank (constructed)                    Implementation Plan (PIP)


2. Durres- Transmission main improvements 2. Operational in accordance with PIP         Contract completed and closed
(carried out)


3. Durres - Rural Area: Feasibility Study      3. Feasibility Study completed and       Feasibility Study completed and satisfactory
(carried out)                                  satisfactory to the Bank                 to the Bank


4. Fier - Well Field and pumping station       4. Operational in accordance with PIP    Contract dropped, to be financed under the
improvements (carried out)                                                              investment of the MWWP


5. Fier - Well Field upgrade (carried out)     5. Operational in accordance with PIP    Contract completed and closed


6. Fier - Distribution mains (replaced)        6. Operational in accordance with PIP    Contract completed and closed


7. Lezha - Distribution main (replaced)        7. Operational in accordance with PIP    Contract completed and closed


8. Lezha - Wells and pumping station           8. Operational in accordance with PIP    Contract completed and closed
(rehabilitated)


9. Saranda - Navarice Spring                   9. Operational in accordance with PIP    Contract to be completed and closed




                                                                   - 18 -

(rehabilitated)


10. All cities - Repair of visible leakage   10. After initial phase (six months) all        Works are completed and contract closed in:
(carried out)                                existing visible leaks are repaired and for new
                                             leaks the repair time is less than five days for Durres on 6/30/2003
                                             mains and less than 12 for all other pipes       Fier on 3/31/2002
                                                                                              Lezha on 3/31/2002
                                                                                              Saranda on 12/25/2001


11. All cities - Operation Enhancement       11. The program shows a NPV > 12%               Completed, is carried out under consultant
Program (carried out)                                                                        services and project components

1End of project




                                                                 - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                       Estimate            Estimate           Appraisal
                           Component                                  US$ million        US$ million
1.Durres - Wells, pumping station                                          2.64                  2.74             104%
2. Durres - Transmission main                                              0.10                  2.64            2644%
3. Durres Villages - Feasibility Study                                     0.62                  0.16              26%
4. Fier - Well Field                                                       0.86                  0.00               0%
5. Fier - Transmission Main                                                1.20                  2.50             208%
6. Lezha - Transmission Main                                               0.14                  0.69             496%
7. Lezha - Wells and Pumping Station                                       2.01                  1.14              57%
8. Saranda - Navarice Spring                                               0.32                  0.25              78%
9. All cities: (a) Repair                                                  0.40                  0.31              76%
(b) Oper. Enhanc                                                           0.70                  0.34              49%
10. Consultant Services (excluding feasibility study)                      1.77                  1.86             105%
11. All cities ­ PIU                                                       0.21                  0.22             105%
Unallocated                                                                3.67
13. Project Preparation Advance                                            0.00                  0.02              0%
14. Management Service fees                                                0.00                  0.300             0%


Total Baseline Cost                                                       14.64                13.17
                             Total Project Costs                          14.64                13.17
                      Total Financing Required                            14.64                13.17


Notes:
1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2) Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to: (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                        - 20 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                3.98               0.75              0.36             0.00              5.09
                                       (2.60)             (0.39)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (3.19)
2. Goods                                4.87               0.00              0.17             0.00              5.04
                                       (3.76)             (0.00)            (0.17)            (0.00)           (3.93)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.35             0.00              0.35
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.17)            (0.00)           (0.17)
4. Technical assistance                 0.00               0.00              2.31             0.00              2.31
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.31)            (0.00)           (2.31)
5. Incremental operating                0.00               0.00              0.24             0.00              0.24
costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.24)            (0.00)           (0.24)
6. Unallocated amount and               0.00               0.00              0.15             0.00              0.15
refinancing of PPF                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
   Total                                8.85               0.75              3.58             0.00             13.18
                                       (6.36)             (0.39)            (3.19)            (0.00)           (9.94)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to: (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 21 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component              Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
                      Bank   Govt.    CoF. Bank   Govt.     CoF.  Bank   Govt.     CoF.
1. Durres - Wells,     1.64   1.00    2.64 1.895  0.841    2.736   116     84      104
pumping station
2. Durres -            0.07   0.03    0.10 1.892  0.752    2.644  2703    2507     2644
Transmission main
3. Durres Villages -   0.62   0.00    0.62 0.130  0.031    0.161   21      0        26
Feasibility Study
4. Fier - Well Field   0.53   0.33    0.86 0.004    --     0.004    1      0        0
5. Fier -              0.75   0.45    1.20 1.780  0.716    2.496   237    159      208
Transmission Main
6. Lezha -             0.08   0.06    0.14 0.480  0.214    0.694   600    357      496
Transmission Main
7. Lezha - Wells and   1.25   0.76    2.01 0.790  0.348    1.138   63      46       57
Pumping Station
8. Saranda -           0.20   0.12    0.32 0.150  0.099    0.249   75      83       78
Navarice Spring
9. All cities: (a)     0.25   0.15    0.40 0.180  0.125    0.305   72      83       76
Repair
(b) Oper. Enhanc       0.43   0.27    0.70 0.250  0.093    0.343   58      34       49
10. Consultant         1.77   0.00    1.77 1.860  0.002    1.862   105     0       105
Services (excluding
feasibility study)
11. All cities ­ PIU   0.13   0.08    0.21 0.200   0.02    0.220   154     25      105
12. Unallocated        2.28   1.39    3.67
13. Project                                0.018           0.018
Preparation Advance
14. Management                             0.300           0.300
Services Fee

Total Baseline        10.00   4.64   14.64 9.929  3.241    13.17
Costs
Total Project Costs   14.64                                13.17
Total Financing       10.00          14.64                 13.17
Required




                                                  - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Cost-benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal for all investment components of the project. The
quantified benefits included at appraisal were: (i) energy savings from the rehabilitation of inefficient
pumping stations, and (ii) incremental water in the system due to the reduction of technical losses from the
rehabilitation of the transmission mains or the prevention of the system from a complete failure. The net
present value (NPV) and internal rate of return (IRR) were calculated for a 20-year period. The discount
rate taken at appraisal was 10 percent. The IRR and NPV for each component at project completion have
been re-estimated, with details in the tables to this Annex, and a summary is provided below.

Durres Well Field, Pumping Station and Pressure Break Chamber Component (Capital cost: 248.09 million
Lek)

The benefits are the incremental water provided, valued at the weighted average water tariff of 34 lek/m3,
and savings in electricity expenses, valued at the economic value of electricity for each year. The IRR has
been re-estimated at 12 percent, lower than the 35 percent estimated at appraisal, as a result of the
combined effects of lower than projected benefits due to the non-materialization of the pressure break
chamber investments. However, substantial energy savings were achieved (see Section 4.2, Outputs by
Component). The NPV, at a 10 percent discount rate, is estimated at 22.38 million Lek, compared to the
1,202 million Lek expected at appraisal.

Durres Transmission Mains (Capital cost: 236.94 million Lek)

The benefits are the incremental water provided through investments in the deteriorated sections of the
transmission mains of Fushe Kuqe and of the Fushe Kruja, valued at the weighted average water tariff of
34 lek/m3 for each year. The re-estimated IRR is 46 percent compared to 53 percent estimated at
appraisal. The re-estimated NPV is 474.70 million Lek, compared to 101.55 million Lek at appraisal. This
result is a combined effect of higher capital costs, incremental water in the system and weighted average
water tariffs than projected at appraisal (see Section 4.2, Outputs by Component). However, capital costs
increased more proportionately, leading to a lower IRR than appraised despite the higher NPV.

Fier Distribution Main (Capital cost: 330.33 million Lek)

The benefits are the incremental water supply in the system due to loss reduction, valued at the weighted
average water tariffs of 31.25 lek/m3 delivered in the distribution main for each year. The re-estimated
internal rate of return (IRR) is 20 percent, higher than the 8 percent estimated at appraisal, mainly because
of the higher incremental water supply and the benefit was valued at the weighted average water tariff
compared to the marginal cost of water at appraisal (see Section 4.2, Outputs by Component). The
re-estimated NPV is 226.93 million Lek, compared to the appraisal estimate of -6.27 million Lek.

Lezha Distribution Main: (Capital cost: 60.96 million Lek)

The benefits are the incremental water supply in the system due to physical water loss reduction, valued at
the marginal cost of water production for each year. The re-estimated IRR is 11 percent, compared to 29
percent estimated at appraisal, due to higher capital cost than estimated at appraisal(see Section 4.2,
Outputs by Component). The re-estimated NPV is 4.12 million Lek, compared to 31.06 million Lek
estimated at appraisal.




                                                      - 23 -

Lezha Rehabilitation of Wells and Pumping Stations (Capital cost: 104.03 million Lek)

The benefits are the savings in electricity expenses and incremental water supply in the system. The energy
savings were valued at the economic value of electricity for each year. The incremental water was valued
at the weighted average water tariff of 33.17 lek/m3 for each year. The re-estimated IRR is 82 percent,
compared to the appraisal estimate of 10 percent. The high IRR and NPV are attributed mainly to the
higher savings of energy and the higher weighted average water tariff. The re-estimated NPV is 284.52
million Lek, compared to the appraisal estimate of -1.28 million Lek.

Saranda Navarice Spring and Transmission Main (Capital cost: 22.12 million Lek)

The benefits are the incremental water supply in the Saranda town, valued at the weighted average water
tariff of 38.16 lek/m3 for each year. The re-estimated IRR is 156 percent compared to the appraisal
estimate of 11 percent, mainly due to the savings of energy, much lower capital cost and the valuation of
the water savings with the weighted average water tariff compared to the marginal cost of water production
at appraisal. The capital costs are lower than anticipated at appraisal because the replacement of parts in
the entire transmission line was no longer required and only repairs were executed. The re-estimated NPV
is 122.09 million Lek, compared to 3.16 million Lek at appraisal.




                                                    - 24 -

- 25 -

- 26 -

- 27 -

- 28 -

- 29 -

- 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/1999                   1    Senior Municipal Engineer
              07/1999                   1    Project Officer
                                        1    Sanitary Engineer


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/1999                   1    Project Officer
                                        1    Senior Municipal Engineer
                                        1    Sanitary Engineer
                                        1    Water and Sanitation Advisor

 Supervision
              04/2000                  12    SANITARY ENGINEER                 S               S
                                             ECONOMIST
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                             FIN. MGMT OFFICER
                                             FIN MGMT SPEC.
                                             SR. DISB OFFICER
                                             SR. COUNSEL
                                             COUNSEL
                                             SR. ENV SPECIALIST
                                             WATER RESOURCES
                                             ECON
                                             REG PROCUREMENT
                                             ADV.
                                             REG FIN. MGMT.
                                             ADVISER

              07/06/2000                2    SANITARY ENGR.                    S               S
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              11/23/2000                3    PTL (1); PROJECT OFFICER          S               S
                                             (1); RURAL WATER
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              01/24/2001                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER               S               S
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             FINANC.MANAG. SPECIAL.
                                             (1)
              03/28/2001                2    PTL (1); LOCAL                    S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              05/17/2001                3    SANITARY ENGINEER (1);            S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); RURAL
                                             WATER SPECIALIST (1)
              07/30/2001                3    PTL (1); PROCUREMENT              S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)
              10/18/2001                3    PTL (1); CONSULTANT (2)           S               S



                                              - 31 -

               04/25/2002              5   PTL (1); FINANCIAL                 S    S
                                           ANALYST (1); CONSULTANT
                                           (3)
               08/02/2002              3   PTL (1); FINANCIAL                 S    S
                                           ANALYST (1); CONSULTANT
                                           (1)
               01/15/2003              5   TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT           S    S
                                           OFFICER (1); WATER AND
                                           SANITATION SPEC. (1); FIN
                                           MGMT SPEC (1);
                                           COMMUNICATION SPEC (1)
               07/12/2003              6   PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                S    S
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (3); SR.
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                           ENGINEER (1)
               01/28/2004              7   PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                S    S
                                           (1); ENGINEER (2); SR
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (2); PROJECT
                                           OFFICER (1)


 ICR
               05/2004                1     FIN/INST SPEC.                    S    S
               07/2004                3     TEAM LEADER                       S    S
                                            PROJ OFFICER
                                            FIN/INST SPEC.



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         113.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                83.0
  Supervision                        113.12                          309.0
  ICR                                   5.52                           37.7
  Total                              118.64                          542.7




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        To improve services of water
supply in the municipalities
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Country Assistance Strategy: Progress Report, February 29, 2000

2.   Project Appraisal Document, January 27, 2000

3.   Durres Villages - Feasibility Study, 2001

4.   Quarterly Report No. 9, January-March 2003

5.   Final Benchmarking Report, May 2000




                                            - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

This report has been written as a part of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be prepared
by the World Bank. Some of the information on the project by the Bank is not duplicated in this
report.

1. Source of Funding

At Appraisal

The IDA Credit = SDR 7.3 million (US$10 million)
GOA Credit = SDR 0.811 million (US$1.11 million)
GOA grant or equity = US$3.52 million

At the end of the project

The IDA Credit = SDR 7,300,000.00 (US$9,929,648.95)
GOA Credit = ALL 115,383,110.00 (US$921,606.00)
GOA grant or equity = ALL 300,596,530.00 (US$2,317,167.39)

Credit Agreement signed: 04/20/2000
Credit effective date: 07/14/2002
Closing date: 03/01/2004
Final Disbursement date: 06/11/2004

The commencement of the project identification was in July 1999, after the Kosovo crises ended. The
consultancy services (detailed design, investment priorities, supervision, etc.) started on September 20,
2000 with the signature of the contract with RODECO company, Germany.

The Credit Agreement was amended twice. First for clause 3(b) of the Schedule I, about the condition of
the payment made for expenditures under Category (1)(a) for rehabilitation works, unless the contract for
the private operator will be awarded by December 31, 2000, was amended to extend this date to June 30,
2002. The condition to postpone the date was fulfilled because the contract was awarded to the private
operator at the end of June 2002.

Second, the agreement was amended to postpone the closing date of the project from March 1, 2003, to
March 1, 2004. The second amendment was necessary because: i) the procurement process was delayed
by about seven months due to the continuous political changes in Albania; ii) the changing of the
procurement strategy, conceived at the beginning to proceed with only one big contract (ICB) for the
amount of US$9 million for execution of the rehabilitation works of the distribution and transmission mains
and rehabilitation of the wells and pumping stations, into the procurement by two ICB contracts with
foreign contractors to supply materials (all the civil works by NCB contracts with the local contractors),
and a third ICB contract for rehabilitation of the wells and pumping stations; iii) the need for the
reallocation of the unallocated funds of US$3.7 million among the disbursement categories in compliance
with the investment priorities defined by the consultant. The last reason was the necessity to include a new
category (category 7, Management Services) for the pre-financing of the start-up phase of the Municipal
Water and Wastewater Project to bridge the time gap of five to six months until the MWWP became
effective.



                                                   - 36 -

2. Project Objectives

2.1 Original Objective

The main objective of the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project was to improve the basic water
services (quality and quantity) in the municipalities of Durres, Fier, Lezha and Saranda, avoiding the
collapse of the systems and reducing the operational costs.

The WSURP as a short-term priority investment program was a forerunner of the Municipality Water and
Wastewater Project, the Management Contract of which was signed on June 8, 2003 with the Berlinwasser
International company. In the meantime, this Project was conceived to bridge the gap period of one or two
years, during which the private operator would take over full responsibilities for the water and wastewater
services in the four cities. The project would rehabilitate components of the water supply systems which
were prone to failure and/or had extremely high operational costs or health risks due to their state of
disrepair.

The outcome and impact of the project was foreseen to be measured by the key performance indicators. The
reliable measurements of the indicators were introduced during the project after the initial work of the
consultant.

The key performance indicators used were:

·       Samples in the network complying with the Albanian Standards for residual chlorine and the
coliforms;

·       Providing water with the minimum consumption standard 80 l/c*d to the consumers who are
        presently getting insufficient quantities of water or no water at all;

·       The reduction in electricity consumption in total and in kWh/m3 produced; and

·       The reduction of water losses in the parts of the network included in this project.

Revised Objective

Objectives were not revised.

Original Components

The project components at the beginning were summarized in the table below, per the PAD.




                                                     - 37 -

 Component                                              Indicative costs        IDA financing
                                                        (US$M)                  (US$M)
         Durres-Wells, pumping stations                         2.64                     1.64
         Durres-Improvement transmission main                   0.10                     0.07
         Durres Villages-feasibility study                      0.62                     0.62
         Fier-Well field                                        0.86                     0.53
         Fier-Transmission main                                 1,20                     0.75
         Lezha-Distribution main replacement                    0.14                     0.08
         Lezha-Wells and Pumping stations                       2.01                     1.25
         Saranda-Navarica Spring                                0.32                     0.20
         All Cities:                                            1.10                     0.68
     a) Repairs         - Total: $0.44
                          IDA: $0.25
     b) Oper. Enhanc. ­ Total: $0.70
                          IDA: $0.43
         Consultant Services                                    1.77                     1.77
     (excluding feasibility study)
         All cities ­ PIU                                       0.21                     0.13
         Unallocated                                            3.67                     2.28
                                 Total Project Costs            14.64                     10

Project costs include 20 percent taxes (VAT) and 10 percent duties for all imported materials. The Bank
will finance 90 percent of the costs excluding taxes and duties. The Government of Albania will finance 10
percent of the costs, taxes and duties. Taxes and duties are 24 percent of the total project costs.

The project components were designed to achieve the stated objectives by implementing immediately the
rehabilitation of key components of the water system in an effective manner. They addressed the physical
rehabilitation of the obsolete system to improve its functioning, reduce the losses, improve the provision of
drinking water service, either in term of quality or quantity, increase the water pressure and balance the
water distribution throughout the city for the four towns.

Revised Components

There was no major revision of the components besides dropping Component 4 -- Fier Well Field, which
remained pending because of the problems and delays with PHARE regarding the funding for the external
transmission line from Karafaj to Koshovica. The unallocated funds were distributed in base of the
investment priorities and the requirements shown by the hydraulic modeling for the cities of Durres, Fier
and Lezha. The use of the unallocated funds in compliance with the components, was imposed sometimes
by investigation and the assessment of the situation in place. The achievement of full implementation of all
revised components was not fully realized because the shortage of the funds caused by the depreciation of
the US$ currency toward EUROs, which was the main currency used in the contracts.

3. Procurement and Contracts by Components

In achieving the outputs in the PAD the procurement process was foreseen with the assumption that the
majority of the works would be tendered as one or two works contracts including supply. This approach
would have resulted in international contracts only, which would have excluded local contractors from
participation due to the following reasons:




                                                     - 38 -

·        Fulfilling the financial and technical conditions under IDA procurement requirements;

·        Would most probably have exceeded the financial capacities of local contractors to pre-finance the
         supply parts of the contracts; and

·        International contractors have more favorable supply conditions and are not required to pre-finance
         the supplies.

Taking into consideration that the local companies had the capacity to fulfill the requirements in works
contracts (excluding goods) up to a contract amount of US$500,000, it was decided from the beginning to
split the contracts into an international supply tenders and local works tenders. This would increase the
participation of the local companies in the project, and on the other hand, decrease the contract price for the
same work, i.e. the project becomes more economic. The only exception is tender WDL 2 ­ Rehabilitation
of Wells and Pump stations. Due to the complexity of the works and supplies, this tender was issued as an
international works tender.

Another reason for splitting the contracts was that it was not clear from the beginning where and how to
spend the unallocated funds. Assuming one or two tenders it would have been necessary to complete the
design for the whole ahead of tendering, which would have delayed the contract completion. Splitting of
the tenders made it possible to go for tender (international and local) directly after completion of the first
batch of design, which covered approximately 60 percent of all works.

The last issue which contributed to the change in allocation of funds was the abandonment of the
rehabilitation of Fier-Kafaraj well field, which was cancelled due to difficulties with splitting of assets and
the PHARE part of this project (rehabilitation of the main pumping station and new transmission main
from Kafaraj to Koshevica reservoir).

These works were supposed to be executed under the same international contract as the other wells and
pump station rehabilitation. According the budget estimate approximately 1.045 million SDR could not be
spent under category 1 (a). The amount was used, with the consent of the World Bank, on additional pipe
replacements divided again into international supplies and local works.

In view of above the achievement of the outputs by project components was as follows:

Durres ­ Wells, pumping station and pressure break tank (US$2.38 million)

The reduction of energy consumption and efficient operation of the pumping station in Fushe Kuqe was
fully achieved through: a) replacement of the six out of seven existing wells with new wells drilled in the
same compound and extracting water from the same aquifer; b) replacement of five lift pumps with higher
efficiency; c) surge protection; d) rehabilitation of overhead lines; and e) re-arranging of suction pipe work
and installation of water hammer protection. Due to these investments, in 2003 the pumps consumed about
4.9 million kWh/year less than in 2000. The estimated benefits was 1.7 million kWh in 2003.

The seventh well was not possible to execute because of unforeseen geological conditions funded during the
drilling process. The existing seventh well is in normal working condition after replacement of the pumps
and the electrical part rehabilitation. Therefore all the material for drilling a new well have been delivered
after some years in another place; these materials are now in the WW Utility store.




                                                      - 39 -

Under this component was foreseen the replacement of the break pressure tank at Kurata, which did not
executed due to impediments created by the utility.

Repairs of the suction tank leaks were executed only after arrangements of the pipes inlet and outlet of the
suction tanks, in which there were the biggest losses. The reduction of water losses by the existing pipes
was estimated at about 1.5 l/s or 47,300 m3/year.

On the other hand, the repair of the leakages in the walls of the suction tanks was not carried out because
the works were scheduled at the end of the Meregalli contract (after finishing the arrangement of the pipes
in the inlet and outlet of the suction tanks). At this time some items of the Meregalli contract were cancelled
due to the shortage of funds by the depreciation of US$ currency. However, only a very small amount of
the water is leaking out through the suction tank walls (negligible), which can be repaired in the future by
the BWI. Previously repairing the suction tank walls was quite impossible because it required stopping the
main pumping station for a couple of days. Now the new arrangement of the pipes allows full operation of
the pumping station with only one suction tank, while in the other suction tank the wall repair works might
continue.

In the end, Fushe Kuqe pumping station together including wells and other components got more
operational sustainability.

Durres - Improvement transmission main (US$2.31 million)

Initially this component compounded only the construction of a valve chamber of the 20 connections to the
700 mm diameter transmission main from the source of water to the Durres city service reservoir.

The measurement made by the consultant showed extensive deterioration of pipes and valves, considerable
leakage and uncontrolled flow to the villages. From approximately 800 l/sec pumped at Fushe Kuqe, only
345 l/s are reaching Durres, and 64 l/s from 202 l/s from Fushe Kruje at Shilore tank.

Taking into consideration the significant losses and wastages during both transmission mains (from Fushe
Kuqe and Fushe Kruja), it was decided that parallel pipelines be constructed during the main transmission
in order to control the water consumption in the rural area and increase the quantity of the water for Durres
and Shijak cities.

On the other hand, Durres City was supplied from the Arapaj reservoir by two steel pipes DN500 to
reservoir 1 and 2. The transmission pipes from the Arapaj reservoir up to Ura e Dajlanit and former
swampy area was now overbuilt and illegally tapped. Out of 28,100 m³/day discharged from Arapaj
reservoir, only 8,920 m³/day reached reservoirs 1 and 2; the rest was consumed and wasted during
transmission.

It was necessary to connect a new transmission to the main transmission at Xhafzotaj and transmit directly
to the town reservoirs, the new pipe aligned in the main road. This approach guaranteed fairer distribution
of water and will improve the supply of Durres City. The first existing lines of DN500 mm were cut off in
the Ura e Dajlanit serving as the distribution line from reservoir 4 for Shkozet and beach area on an hourly
basis. The other line DN500 mm was also cut off in Ura e Dajlanit, but the existing DN500 mm in Unaza
(near the former swampy area) was connected via a by-pass with the new transmission main DN600 mm
coming from Xhafzotaj, which is operated on an hourly basis to supply the former swampy and north area
of Durres.




                                                       - 40 -

Later it was decided to cancel construction of the parallel lines along the transmission from Fushe Kuqe
(except the parallel lines from Xhafzotaj to reservoir 4), because the OPEC project (US$2.7 million),
which would arrange the distribution system of 11 villages in Manza rural area for about 25,000
inhabitants.

There were the main reasons for increasing the amount foreseen initially for this component. These
investments have contributed to daily savings of about 3,205 m3 or about 1.170 million m3 in 2003 from
Fushe Kruje transmission main, and 2,505 m3/day or 0.9 million m3/year from new Fushe-Kuqe
transmission main. Although the water inflow from Fushe Kuqe in the city increased by 2,505 m3/day in
2003, due to lack of proper operation and management from the water utility, the expected savings of at
least 5,000 m3/day have not been gained yet. The Action Plan agreed with the local government in Durres
has become operational and the water supply to the villages is getting under better control.

The investments for this component were much higher than anticipated due to additional design changes
indicated by the hydraulic models and re-evaluation of the EURO vis-à-vis Lek and US$.

Durres ­ Villages Feasibility Study (US$0.62 million)

This task was fulfilled by the consultant RODECO, submitting the draft Feasibility Study in March 2001.
This study served as the main base for obtaining the OPEC financing by US$2.7 million for 11 villages in
Manza rural area (about 25,000 inhabitants), which is under the implementation.

Fier-Well field (US$0.86 million)

This component was cancelled due to difficulties in the splitting of assets and the decision to have PHARE
carry out the implementation part of this project. The amount available for this component was distributed
among Fier distribution and the other components based on priorities of investments.

Fier-Transmission main (US$2.10 million)

The existing main distribution pipelines transferring water from Koshovica reservoir to Fier city were laid
through former open land now overbuilt and illegally tapped for consumption and irrigation. Further, two
of the existing pipes were partly beyond repair due to corrugation (high SO4 content in the soil due to
former chemical plant).

Under this component was foreseen the replacement of these three pipes (two were DN500 mm and one
was DN250 mm) with a new main distribution line of DN800 mm for about 3 km in length.

The hydraulic model showed that the additional problem with the supply at Fier was that the distribution
depended on the original network distribution system inside of the city correctly designed for the former
population. The demand by the growing population resulted in a spaghetti-like distribution system of small
diameter pipes incapable of providing enough water to the population, especially north of the town. Illegal
and leaking house connections contributed to the shortage. The new ring main with a diagonal main line
(ranging from 500 to 250 mm) with a clearly defined number of connections to the old system ensured the
possibility of fairer distribution of the water.

Consequently, it was decided that the replacement of about 9.5 km of the ring main in the distribution
network take place. Due to the shortage of funds by the depreciation of the US$ currency, the west side of
the ring main remained incomplete.


                                                   - 41 -

In the end, by the reduction in physical losses about 75,800 people were supplied with about 304, 577 m3
more drinking water in 2003. The reduction of water consumption from Oil Refinery from 150 l/s to 65 l/s
contributed to the increase of the water supply in the city network of about 693,792 m3 in 2003.
Additional water was supplied to about 5,500 people who were living north of the city outskirts, which was
estimated at about 80,300 m3 in 2003. The total savings for 2003 were about 1.1 million m3.

The future replacement of about of 11.6 km transmission main from the Kafarj well fields to the -
Koshevica reservoirs by PHARE Program financing, more savings are expected by leakage reduction and
wastage.

Lezha-Distribution Main Replacement (US$0.62 million)

This component initially foresaw only the substitution of the distribution main (610 m of DN100 mm and
300 m of DN80 mm) and disconnection of a supply main to a disused paper mill, which are connected in
ring form within the communities of Qendra and Zemra e Katundit. The new distribution main included the
connection of the above two communities.

This component executed a stretch of approximately 720 m DN 300 to 125 mm, replaced the old line
crossing the paper mill, including the connections in Qendra and Zemra e Katundit communities. In the end,
the objective to improve water supply to the two communities was achieved.

In addition, with the hydraulic modeling study and the investigation in place, it was observed that in the
existing three mains from the city up to Bricks Factory (about 1500 m in length) there were about 10 l/s
losses (estimation based on the visible leaks) and poor water supply services for the surrounding area. On
the other hand, the transmission main from Barbulloje well field up to Lezha city was laid 10 to 15 m off
the road, and up to now approximately 60 percent of the whole length was overbuilt, in some places the
houses were constructed on top of the pipe. Consequently it was decided to construct:

·       A new distribution main from the city (Shtepia e Oficerave) up to the Bricks Factory for a length
        of 1480m, DN140 mm, including the house connection. This new main distribution replaced the
        three existing mains, achieving savings of about 6.2 l/s or 197,000 m3/year water losses (data from
        the last benchmarking report).

·       A new transmission main DCI DN500 from the pump station to the reservoir. At the same time
        was foreseen the construction of a parallel line (ranging from DN 200 mm DN 80 mm) for
        connection of the surrounding area of the main transmission, including new house connections and
        water meter installation. Both lines were laid only for about 3 km (from the pumping station up to
        Ura e Cenit). However, the loss reduction was lower than estimated at appraisal (197, 000 m3 in
        2003), because the new transmission main DCI DN500 from the pumping station to the reservoir
        was about 75 percent completed and the water is still pumped through the old leaking transmission
        main with all legal and illegal connections. This investments were not completed fully under the
        project due to shortage of funds created from devaluation of the US$ vis-à-vis the EURO.

Lezha-Wells and Pumping Stations and Chlorination (US$1.20 million)

This component included full rehabilitation of the existing pumping stations and the well field. The works
executed needed less funds as foreseen at the beginning. The subtle investigation showed the need to drill



                                                    - 42 -

only two new wells (instead of three), which fully covered the water demand by keeping the existing
withdrawal capacity. However, it has rehabilitated even the existing well pump station no. 1 (maintained as
stand by). There are constructed the surge protection (or water hammer protection), the chlorination
system, and there are rehabilitated the existing overhead lines. Additionally, these power stabilizers were
furbished and installed in order to guarantee the required medium voltage tension.

The investments resulted in the reduction of energy consumption by 1.9 kWh million for 2003 compared to
2001, because of the reduction of the power factor from 0.65 to 0.44 for a year water production of 9.6
million m3.

Saranda Navarica Spring (US$0.22 million)

Navarica spring is the original source of the Saranda supply and feeds Saranda reservoir by gravity. The
spring is producing 105 to 52 l/sec. The average is calculated as 78 l/s over the year. From this quantity
Navarica village has the right to 18 l/s for their demands. This leaves an average of 60 l/s for Saranda and
the seven connected villages. Only 5 l/s reached Saranda reservoir in winter, and zero in summer. The
water was consumed by uncontrolled draw-off by the villages and irrigation connections all along the line.

This component comprised the rehabilitation of the spring structure, installation of meter chambers for the
villages two bulk meters at Navarica spring and 3 no. along the line and removal of all illegal connections.
Caush and Tremuli have direct connections but without storage. In order to control the supply to these two
villages a new reservoir and distribution was laid.

The objective to reduce the leakage and provide reliable controlled water supply to the villages and save
energy was partly achieved. The investments -- for installation of new bulk meter chambers for the villages,
and new supply for Caush and Tremuli villages in order to disconnect the existing individual connections
were completed, and yet the villagers are taking water uncontrolled, due to lack of proper operation by the
company. This has affected that the water inflow into Saranda town, although it increased slightly by
1,750 m3/day, it is still not at the level expected. Nevertheless of the agreements reached with the commune
that they will receive bulk water supply from this line at the rate of 200 liter/capita/day (18 l/s for all
villages, leaving 42 l/sec average for Saranda), the project does not yet show the expected benefits due to
political reasons.

All Cities Leak Repairs (total US$0.26 million)

This component achieved the objective to increase the water supply in the system due to leaks repaired as
following: Durres ­ 838 leaks repaired equal to 412,900 m3/year; Fier ­ 222 leaks repaired equal to
109,390 m3/year; Lezha- 164 leaks repaired equal to 80,811 m3/year. In Saranda leak repair works were
not foreseen, as this was done under the EU-PHARE Project. However, due to the lack of proper leak
repair management of the water utility, new leaks emerged that are reversing the improvements in the
above towns. In the end, without these improvements the water losses would have been much higher.

Consultancy Services (excluding feasibility study, total US$1.62 million)

The Consultant Company RODECO, performed the duties in compliance with the terms of reference
foreseen in the contract.

Priority of investments -- The Final Report on Review of Priority Investments was issued on July 13,
2001.   This report was developed in close collaboration with the WSSC (Water Supply and Sewer


                                                      - 43 -

Companies) of the four towns, Water PIU and the World Bank. This report has defined the use of the funds
unallocated in the Project (US$3.7 million) and has also served as a base for the review of the procurement
plan of the project, which foresaw completion of the project in February 2002.

The contract with the Consultant, was amended on October 12, 2001 for an amount of US$427,120.00 for
fulfilling two main additional tasks during the project, as below:

Hydraulic Modeling

The hydraulic modeling of the water distribution system for the cities of Durres, Fier, and Lezha (Saranda
is covered under PHARE project) was necessary in order for efficient planning of distribution of the
unallocated funds in this part of the systems. The need to amend the contract with the present consultant
rises for this additional task.

The reports on the models for Durres, Lezha and Fier were presented on December 14, 2001. The contract
foresaw training of local personnel on hydraulic modeling; however, no candidates for training have been
put forward by the water enterprises.

Detailed Design for OPEC Implementation Works

It was agreed with the OPEC that funds in Vienna be used to finance only the investment part of the Zone
No. 10 in the Durres rural area for the amount of US$2.7 million. This area was chosen based on the
consultant Durres village feasibility study. The consultancy services (design and supervision) would be
covered under Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project by the present consultant amending the contract
with them.

Operational Enhancement Program

Investments which refer to operation enhancement are all covered under the other components. They were:

·        Installation of pressure reduction valves;
·        Installation of bulk meters at reservoir, at transmission and distribution junctions; and
·        Laying of parallel lines for areas connected directly to transmission mains.

Further investments included the construction of a new workshop at Saranda, and combined workshop and
office buildings for Fier and Lezha, as well as the supply of office equipment and furniture.

Fier Warehouse Construction - (US$0.12 million). Works completed, July 2002.
Lezha Warehouse Construction - (US$0.14 million). Works completed, January 2003.
Saranda Warehouse Construction - (US$0.07 million). Works completed, 2002.

Equipment and furniture for the warehouses of four cities ­ (US$0.05 million)

A minimum of equipment and furniture was foreseen for the new warehouses in Lezha, Fier and Saranda.
Durres was not included as equipment was supplied under the previous project.




                                                       - 44 -

Updating maps ­ (US$0.03 million)

The existing 1:10,000 topographical maps have not been updated since 1987. Due to the rapid development
in the project areas, the maps needed updating in order to simplify the new designs and provide the Water
Works with the base for identification of existing services and planning of new services

Rural Pilot area ­ (US$0.06 million)

The objective of the rural pilot area was to reduce water misuse and wastage, and increase the collection
rate in the rural area by applying different schemes in the eight selected villages. The pilot project also
aimed to make the villages responsible for management of water services in their areas, collection of water
charges and payment of the water bills to the supplier, which experience has to applied further in overall
rural areas.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

The project had some negative impact due to the devaluation of SDR and US$ currencies. The SDR and
US$ currencies were devaluated since March 2002 by about 20 percent. The impact is considerable in the
project because the usual currency used in the contract is EURO, and this happened in the period of the
biggest disbursements of the project. The Water PIU saw as a possible solution in cutting the provisional
amounts in some contracts.

Another factor which caused some delays in procurement (signing the contracts in delay) was the frequent
political changes in the Ministry of Territory Adjustment and Tourism (in 10 months three ministers).

At times it was difficult to execute works in the dry season of the contracts for reduction of the wastages
and leakages (contract WD4 in rural area in Durres main transmission, Saranda, and Navarica spring),
because of the long time need for water supply interruption in Durres city. In Navarica there was lack of
collaboration by the waterworks utility and the local authorities in supporting the execution of the contract.
The same reasons created some delays in the execution of the works of WDL2 contract for rehabilitation of
the wells and pump stations at Fushe Kuqe and Lezha.

At the end of the project the key performance indicators measuring the outputs of the project followed the
trend, as below:

·        The samples in the network complying with the Albanian Standards for residual chlorine and the
coliforms showed a small, positive increase for Durres and Lezha, while this was significant (up to 92
percent for Fier and 75 percent for Saranda) for two other cities. The main reason for this difference was in
Fier the project had big interventions in the distribution network. In Saranda the positive impact came by
the quite all rehabilitation of the distribution network by PHARE Program. Another positive factor in
increasing this indicator for Lezha was the investment in the chlorination systems done under this project.
In Navarica spring (Saranda) only an emergency chlorination system was constructed, while in Fier the
chlorination system was included in the upgrade well field which was foreseen to be constructed under the
MWWP. Durres already had its chlorination system constructed under the previous IDA project.

·        It was a difficult target for Durres to cover the service area with a minimum 80 l/c/d. At the end of
the project this indicator was only for 53 percent of the population against 36.50 percent in the initial phase
of the project. Obviously, to reach this target it needs a very big investment for the rehabilitation of the



                                                      - 45 -

distribution network and especially for its extension into Spitalla-Porto Romano, former swampy and hilly
areas. In the other cities these figures were up to 75 percent of the service area. On the other hand, good
management of the situation regarding the wastages in rural areas (irrigation etc.) would increased the
quantity of the water reaching Durres city, consequently improving the percentage of the people having a
minimum of 80 l/c/d. To fight against this phenomena, it is necessary to better engage the utility with
strong support of the local government authorities.

·        The reduction in electricity consumption in total for Durres was about 12 percent with the
rehabilitation of the well field and the pumping stations. For Lezha a reduction by 32 percent is expected
with the same sort of rehabilitations after the construction of the new main transmission foreseen during the
MWWP. The funds for this investment were cut off during the project due to the devaluation of the US$
currency. For Fier this indicator was not applicable because the rehabilitation of the well field and
pumping station component was cancelled, failing execution of the PHARE project in time. In Saranda the
reduction of energy consumption by 403,000 kWh/year is expected when the rehabilitation of Navarica
spring will finish after the execution of the action plan during the MWWP.

·        The reduction of water losses in the parts of the network included in this project for Durres was
expected to be about 7,300 m3/day, but the measurement showed a loss reduction of 5,174 m3/day. For
Fier the loss reductions were about 326,660 m3/year instead of 660,000 m3/year, because the new main
transmission from Kafaraj to Koshovica is still not constructed. In Lezha the expected loss reduction was
about 660,000 m3/year. The major part of this reduction is expected after the construction of the new main
transmission line, which will be financed by the MWWP. The loss reduction of Saranda was foreseen under
the PHARE Project, but additional water is coming from Navarica spring measured at about 1,750 m3/day.

Bank Performance

Bank performance during the project implementation was generally satisfactory. The Bank contributed by
working closely with the implementation agency, either from the Washington headquarters or during their
frequent missions to Albania, and following up on project progress and issues. In particular the Bank
contributed in the procurement process and its schedule in order to ensure harmonic and efficient execution
of the project.

Borrower Performance

The performance of the Borrower during the project implementation in general was satisfactory. The
municipalities of the four cities had good collaboration with the implementing agency in facilitating the
bureaucratic procedures during the execution of the works and had consistent discussions regarding the
priorities in the water supply systems. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance always allocated in time
the counterpart funds and ensured their disbursement was made in due time by the local treasury's offices.

Lessons Learned

Particularly for the projects with very short-term execution, it is necessary to avoid the political level for
the decisions on procurement aspects of the projects, giving more and more competencies to the PIU on this
matter.

The experience of the project showed that, for emergency projects under which the priorities and designs
are not definitively well defined, it would not be efficient or timely to proceed with only one big combined



                                                     - 46 -

ICB contract. One combined ICB contract (goods and works) needs too much time for preparation, as
design, technical specifications, tender documents (at least three months) and tendering (additional three
months). It will be better for the project to proceed with small contracts, as they do not need too much time
to prepare the tender documents for some defined priorities (visible priorities). In the meantime, the
consultant would have enough time to define (prepare) the other priorities and tender documents.

The schedule of the execution of the project it is necessary to start with the leak repair program, but in
parallel it is necessary to proceed with the hydraulic model study for the considerable component of the
unallocated funds.

In the PAD the project foresaw only a big combined (works and goods) contract for about US$9 million.
This would increase artificially the project costs and exclude the domestic companies from participating
during the tender process as a prime contractor because they can not fulfill the qualification conditions for
these kinds of contracts (turnover and liquid assets). It would be more suitable to foresee two or more
works contracts to stimulate the participation of the domestic companies (in Albania there are the
construction companies which can easily cover the financial requirements of the works contracts up to
US$1 million), and a big goods contract, in which mainly the foreign companies will participate.

The expected efficiency in the contracts for reduction of wastages by illegal connection in urban and rural
areas depends considerably on the engagement of the executive structures of the local authorities. It is
necessary to have prior agreement with the communes and municipalities for the disconnection of the illegal
connections for these kind of contracts.

Taking into consideration the frequent fluctuations of the strong currencies (SDR, US$, Euro, etc.), it is
necessary to foresee a bigger percentages of the contingencies in the contracts in order to ensure their full
completion.




                                                     - 47 -

- 48 -

