                                     Documentof
                                 TheWorld Bank




                                                     ReportNo. 31626




              PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT




                                     ALBANIA

      DURRESWATER AND SANITATION REHABILITATIONPROJECT
                                CREDIT 2610-ALB

                                       AND

           WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                CREDIT 3322-ALB




                                 February 14,2005




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Lek

1993                                               Lek 105.63
                                                   Lek 149.95
                          US$l.oo
                          US$l.oo
                          US$l.oo
2000
2004 (August)                                      Lek 101.62

AbbreviationsandAcronyms

DDSW              DurresDistrict Sewerage Works
DDWW              DurresDistrict Water Works
DWSR              DurresWater and SanitationRehabilitation(project)
DWW               Directorate o f Water and Wastewater
GOA               Government o fAlbania
ICR               ImplementationCompletion Report
IDA               International Development Association
M P W             MinistryofPublic Works, Territory Adjustment,and Tourism
OED               Operations EvaluationDepartment
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PCR               Project Completion Report
PIU               Project ImplementationUnit
PMR               project Management Report
PMST              Project Management Support Te m
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
PSP               Private Sector Participation
SAR               StaffAppraisal Report
T A               Technical Assistance
Ufw               Unaccounted-for Water
WSUR              Water SupplyUrgent rehabilitation (project)

FiscalYear

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                  : Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment                : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group    : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                            : Mr.GeorgeKeithPitman

    OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programs and activities of the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results, and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
 the dissemination of lessons drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment,preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate

 studies.
 important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation

       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparationand implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                       ...
                                                                      111



 Contents

 PrincipalRatings          ................................................................................................................   v

 Key StaffResponsible               ........................................................................................................  v

 Preface  ..............................................................................................................................    vi1
                                                                                                                                              ..

 Summary     ...........................................................................................................................     ix

     Background          ..................................................................................................................   1

         Water Sector Background........................................................................................                      2
         TheProjects .............................................................................................................            2

     Evaluation      .....................................................................................................................    5
                                 Counterfactuals ................................................................................ 5
                                                                                                                                              6

         Outcome.,................................................................................................................. 4
                                 Monitoring and Evaluation..............................................................
                                 Expected Benefits and Risks............................................................
                                                                                                                                              6

        Relevance .................................................................................................................           7
        Efjcacy .................................................................................................................... 8
        Efjciency ................................................................................................................ 10
        Institutional Development ......................................................................................                    11
        Sustainability.......................................................................................................... 13
        Bank Performance ................................................................................................. 13
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                     13
     OutlookandLessons                 ..................................................................................................   14

Annex A BasicDataSheet
           .                               ..............................................................................................   17

Annex B Key PerformanceIndicators
           .                                                     .........................................................................  23

Annex C Commentsfrom the Borrower
           .                                                         .....................................................................  $29

Maps




This reportwas preparedby Tauno K Skytta. Consultant. who assessedthe project inJune 2004. The
                                              .
reportwas editedby William Hurlbut.Soon-WonPak providedadministrativesupport.


                                                             V



  PrincipalRatings

                                            ICR                   ICR Review*                  PPAR

  DurresWater and SanitationRehabilitationProject(Credit 2610-ALB)
  Outcome                             Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
  Sustainability                          Unlikely                Highly unlikely               Likely
  Institutional Development               Modest                    Negligible                Negligible
  Impact
  Bank Performance                    Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
  Borrower Performance                Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory

  Water Supply UrgentRehabilitationProject(Credit 3322-ALB)
  Outcome                              Satisfactory                Satisfactory              Satisfactory
  Sustainability                           Likely                      Likely                   Likely
  Institutional Development               Modest                     Modest                    Modest
  Impact
  Bank Performance                     Satisfactory                Satisfactory              Satisfactory
  Borrower Performance                 Satisfactory                Satisfactory              Satisfactory
  * The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperational division of the Bank.
  The ICR Review is an intermediate Operations Evaluation Department (OED) product that seeks to independently verify
  the findings of the ICR.




  Key StaffResponsible
  Project                           Task ManagedLeader                   Division Chief/           Country Director
                                                                         Sector Director

-DurresWaterandSanitationRehabilitationProject(Credit2610-ALB)
   Appraisal                          Richard MacEwen                    Rory O'Sullivan              Kemal Dervis
   Completion                          Andreas Rohde                    Ricardo Halperin              Christiaan J.
-                                                                                                       Poortman
_I



 Water SupplyUrgentRehabilitationProject(Credit3322                                                        -
   Appraisal                         Augusta Dianderas               Walter A. Stottmann          Arntraud Hartmann
   Completion                          Andreas Rohde                  Sumter Lee Travers           Nadir Mohammed


                                              vii


 Preface

         This i s the ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Durres Water
 and SanitationRehabilitationProject and on the Water SupplyUrgent Rehabilitation
 Project.

         The Durres Water andSanitation RehabilitationProject, estimated at appraisal to
 cost US$19.5 million, was approved inMay 1994 for an IDA credit o fUS$11.6 million
 o fwhich US$l 1.4 million was disbursed (the difference was due to exchange rate
 fluctuations). The project closed inOctober 2000 at the Bank's request to terminate the
 credit 14 months ahead o f its scheduled closing date. Total project costs at completion
were US$17.2 milliono fwhich the Government o f Albania providedUS$5.5 million or
 32 percent. Durres District Water Works failed to provide its share o fUS$2.(i million.
USAIDprovidedcofinancing ofUS$0.3 million.

         The Water Supply UrgentRehabilitation Project, estimated at appraisal to cost
US$14.6 million, was approved inFebruary 2000 for an IDA credit o fUS$lO.O million
o fwhich US$9.9 millionwas disbursed (the difference was due to exchange rate
fluctuations). The Government o f Albania contributedUS$4.6 millionor 31 percent o f
total costs. The project closed inMarch 2004 one year behindschedule.

        This report is based on the review o fthe ImplementationCompletionReports for
these two projects (Report No. 22207 dated June 15,2001 and Report No. 29687 dated
August 24,2004), bothpreparedby the InfrastructureSector Unito fthe Europeand
Central Asia Region. This was supplementedby the respective Memoranda and
Recommendations o fthe President, StaffAppraisal Report and Project Appraisal
Document, credit and legal documents, project files at the World Bank's headquarters
and inits Tirana country office, and discussions with Bank staff. An Operations
EvaluationDepartment (OED) mission visitedAlbania inJune 2004 to discuss the
effectiveness o f the Bank's assistancewith the Government, development partners, and
representatives o fproject participatindimplementingwater companies and other relevant
organizations. The cooperation and assistance o f central govemment officials,
management and staff o f visitedwater companies, and other parties concerned are
gratefully acknowledged.

        This PPAR is part of a regional assessment o f several water and sanitation
projects that have included similar projects inBosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia
and the Baltic States. Itprovides an assessment o fthe outcome o fthe Bank's assistance
that sought to enable Albania to reform water and wastewater utilities and improve
environmental conditions inurban areas.

        Following standard OED procedures, copies o f the draft PPARwas sent to
government officials and agencies for their review and comments. The set o f comments
received from the Mayor o f Durres are attached (Annex C).


                                               ix



 Summary

         The Albania DurresWater and Sanitation RehabilitationProject was approved in
 1994 and closed in2000. It was followed in2000 by the Water SupplyUrgent
 RehabilitationProject that closed in2004. Bothprojects focused primarily on the
 rehabilitation o f the existing water supply facilities to eliminate water shortages and
 associatedhealthrisks, the first focusing on Durres with apopulation o f 220,000, the
 second expanding rehabilitation improvements to benefit 140,000 people inFier, Lezha,
 and Saranda. While the Durresproject aimed to establish a strong local institutional
 framework to ensure the sustainability o fwater services, the Urgent Rehabilitation
 project was more o f a stop-gap operation linkedto the Kosovo refugee crisis and the
 preparation o fthe follow-on Municipal Water and Wastewater Project approved in
 January 2003. As such, the UrgentRehabilitationproject continuedto reinstate the most
 vulnerable parts o f the water supply systems and supported basic operational
 improvements.

        The assessedprojects were prepared and implementedat a time when major
 economic andpolitical changes took place inAlbania. The Durresproject's institutional
objective was overly optimistic inthe light o f time available andmisjudged borrower
ownership, thus its relevance was modest. Conversely, the physical objectives o fboth
projects were highlyrelevant becauseurgentrehabilitation was essential to ensure the
continuity o f vital water supply and sewerage services and to pave the way for
subsequent commercializationofthe water and sewerage utilities.

        The Durresproject achieved most o fits physical objectives to salvage the supply
network from further deterioration but the expected improvements inoperations and
water sales were not achieved. Achievements of institutional objectives fell short of the
targeted reforms. The outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and institutional development
impact i s rated as negligible.Sustainabilityo fproject benefits is rated as likely primarily
because ofrejuvenated government ownership, subsequent introduction o f sound sector
policies, and the continuedsupport o f external development partners.

       The UrgentRehabilitationproject achieved its physical objectives with few
shortcomings. Overall, the deterioration o f service quality was halted and operational
improvements led to slightly better and more reliable service delivery. The outcome is
rated as satisfactory, institutional development impact i s rated as modest, and the
sustainability o fproject benefits is likely.

       BankandBorrowerperformance are ratedas unsatisfactory for the Durres project
and as satisfactory for the Urgent Rehabilitationproject.

       This project performance assessment supports three lessons for broader
application:

                                               X



Lesson 1. I t is important to exerciseflexibility when aprojectfaces implementation
problems in a seriously dqficult situation.

The primaryfocus o fthese two projects on physicalrehabilitation was appropriate given
government's preoccupation with political reform and civil unrest. I t also provided time
to nurtureon institutionalreform agenda and buildborrower buy-in. This subsequently
made it possible to help the government cope with the urgent issues ongoing from the
 1999 crisis causedby the influx o frehgees from Kosovo.

Lesson 2. Sequencing of demanding reform activities and major rehabilitation efforts, as
well as the timeframe for their implementation, need to be adequately analyzed to take
full account ofpractical priorities and the available implementation capacity.

Too many demanding activities at one time may over-tax the implementation capacity o f
utilities - a thorough evaluation o f local capacity i s essential. The Bank also needs to take
the time to ensure that there i s a firm commitment among stakeholders to accomplish
sector reforms. Inthe evaluated projects, the need for institutional reform only became
clear to many stakeholders when investment ininfrastructureimprovement alone failed to
improve significantly service delivery and operational indicators.

Lesson 3. Theearly establishment of a benchmarking system is importantfor facilitating
appropriate monitoring of progress and evaluation of impact of activities.

The UrgentRehabilitationproject initiatedthe benchmarkingo fsector activities. Reliable
data on sector and project performance i s now at last enabling comparison and analysis o f
factors affecting utilityperformance.




                                                                           Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                             Director-General
                                                                        Operations Evaluation

                                                     1




 1. Background

 1.         WhenAlbania started the transition from central planningto amarket economy, it
 was the poorest and most isolated and backward country inEurope. For centuries,
 Albania hadbeenlargely unknown and inaccessible, and, from 1945 to 1985, its isolation
 was compounded by the rigid communist dictatorship o f EnverHoxha, which eliminated
 almost all forms o fprivate property and virtually cut off the country from outside
 influences and information. Whentransition began in 1991,the country hadbeen reduced
 to desperatepoverty, and the vast majority o f its population was unfamiliar with market
 institutions andpractices.

 2.         Although subsequent growth has beenimpressive, GDP per capita almost tripling
 from US$610 to US$1,740 over the period1994-2003, Albania remains one o f the poorest
 countries inEurope. Macroeconomic stabilization, structural reforms, and improved
 allocation o f resources to more productive activities have beenthe main engines o f the
 economic growth. Evenso, since 1990, about 20 percent of the total populationhas
 emigrated, Greece and Italybeingthe two principalrecipient countries. Remittances from
 migrants are currently the largest source o f foreign exchange. Balancingthis emigration,
 Albania was inundated by refugees from the Kosovo crisis. Poverty, however, remains
 highandpervasive bothinmonetaryterms and inthe lack ofaccessto basic services such
 as water, health, and education. A quarter o f the population i s below the poverty line.

 3.        The economy is bolstered byremittances from abroad o f $400-$600 million
 annually, mostly from Greece and Italy. Overseas development assistance i s about
US$300 million a year, main bilateral partners being Italy, the EUand Germany.
Agriculture, which accounts for one-half o f GDP, i s drought prone and suffers from
insecure irrigationbecause o f failing,infiastructure. Small landholdings and lack of
capital make modernization o f agriculture difficult. Severe energy shortages allied with
antiquated and inadequate infrastructure make it difficult to attract foreign investment
and sustain growth.

4.         A t the time o f appraisal o fthe Durres Water SupplyRehabilitationProject in
 1994, Albania's populationwas about 3.2 million, but had fallen to about 3.1 millionby
2000 when the Water SupplyUrgent RehabilitationProject was beinginitiated. Together,
the projects aimed to improve water services and sewerage for almost 13 percent o f the
national population. Durres i s the largest o fthe towns covered under these two projects.
With apopulation of about 220,000 (that swells to 300,OO duringthe summer due to its
sandy beaches), Durres is the second largest city inAlbania andthe country's main port.
Ofthe other towns covered, Fier is the largest with apopulation o f about 93,000, Saranda
and Lezhahave populations o f 25,000 and 22,000, respectively.




1. "Albania: Sustaining Growth Beyond the Transition, A World Bank Country Economic Memorandum"
(draft o f June 15,2004).

                                                        2


 WATERSECTOR BACKGROUND

 5.       Albania's abundant water resources and piped supplies, highincomparison with
 other lower middle-income countries, serve 80 percent o f the population. There were 250
 water works throughout the country and all - except the six under thejurisdiction o fthe
 Ministry o f Construction, Housingand Territory Adjustment - functioned as departments
 o f local government with little autonomy except for operations and maintenance (O&M).
 Conversely, all o fthe 175 sewerageworks were directly controlled by MOC.
 Universally, water and sewerage infrastructure was inpoor condition due to central
 planning and long-term neglect o f maintenance and cost recovery, and this ledto low
 levels o f service and unsafe supplies.Most urbanwater supplieswere intermittent due to
 poor infrastructure and greatly increased demand. A nationally uniform and low water
 tariff provided no incentive to conserve water, and social changes arising from transition
 greatly increased the demand for urban water supplies.

 6.       The collapse o f cooperative and irrigatedagriculture following transitioncaused
 widespread migration to the peripheries o f cities and a returnto subsistence agriculture             -
 a trend that accelerated rapidly inthe late1990s. Peri-urban squatter settlers broke into the
 water mains to meet their water needs, while people with access to land also usedmains
 water for irrigation. The resultingdemanddenudedsuppliesmeant for the city centers
 causing great shortages. InDurres service area, for example, the 70 percent o f the urban
 populationconnected to the mains hadtheir supply limited to 2 or 3 hours and fewer than
 50 liters o fwater per day, andthe unaccounted-for water was believedto be over 50
 percent2Eveninthe better circumstances before transition, pollutedwater supplies were
 responsible for four typhoid epidemics over the period 1984-94. Thus improvements in
 water infrastructure and sanitation were seen as keyto reducingrisks to health, helping
 poverty alleviation and contributing to sustained economic growth.

 7.      The Government o fAlbania's priority in 1994was to ensure water supplies for
 the most important commercial areas, andeconomies o f scale ledthemto focus on
 Tirana, the capital and largest city, and the Durres District, which together contained
 almost 20 percent o fAlbania's population. As the Italian Government was already
 assisting the Tirana water utility, the Bank agreed that its first water sector operation
would assist the Durres District water utility andhelp augment the water supply to the
KavajaDistrict whose distribution system was simultaneously beingupgraded by the
 Government o f Germany (KfW).

THEPROJECTS

8.       The DurresWater Supply RehabilitationProjectwas designed to cover a
minimuminvestment package focusingon rehabilitation o fthe existingfacilities and
initiation o f a water audit (under the Bank's PPF funding) carried out in 1992-93. It was
anticipated that a follow-on phase o fnew investments would support expansion o fthe
system. Project objectives, components and costs are summarized inTable 1.A key


2. This was only a rough estimate at appraisal, due to inadequate metering. Subsequent monitoring shows
that had beenwildly optimistic as the true level was nearer 75 percent (para 31).

 component was to improve institutionalcapacity (financial, information and maintenance
 management) under a twinning arrangement with a foreign utility.

 9.        The Water Supply UrgentRehabilitationProjectwas designedto addressthe
 short-term priority needs inthe four towns andbridgethe gap between the Durres project
 and the start-up o f the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project that would assist the
 same four towns and introduce private sector participation(PSP). The Urgent
 Rehabilitationproject continued rehabilitation o fvulnerable sections o f the water supply
 system to prevent failure, and reduce healthrisks andor the highcosts o f operations.
 Detailed objectives, components and costs are listed inTable 1.Although there were no
 specific objectives for improvement o f operations and the policy environment, there
 would be pilot projects and studies to buildthe informationbase and facilitate PSP. A
 condition o f disbursement for investmentinall four cities was that aprivate operator had
 to beappointed by December 2000 - althoughthis was later delayed (para 13).

 10.       Implementationof the two projects.The overall responsibility for project
 implementation rested with the Ministryo f Public Works, Territory Adjustment and
 Tourism through its Directorateo f Water and Wastewater (DWW). A project
 implementation unit (PIU) was established to implement the project incollaboration with
 the Durres District Water Works andthe new Durres District SewerageWorks. The PIU
 was to be responsible for the overall project management, coordination andplanning,
 includingreporting to DWW. For the Urgent RehabilitationProject, the PIUwas
renamed the "World Bank Water PIU" and was strengthened through engaging a
consulting team that included qualifiedwater system engineers, a procurement specialist,
 and financial assistants.

 11.      Albania was convulsed by the dramatic rise and collapse o f several huge financial
pyramid schemes during 1996-97 that ledto uncontained rioting, the fall o f government
and a descent into near anarchy and civil war inwhich some 2,000 people were killed.At
their peak the nominalvalue ofthe pyramidschemes' liabilities amountedto almost half
o f the country's GDP and about two-thirds o fthe population had investedinthem. After
the collapse, large parts o f the country were no longer within the government's control,
and revenues collapsed as customs posts and tax offices were burned. By the end o f June
1996 the lek had depreciated against the dollar by 40 percent, andprices increasedby 28
percent inthe first halfo f 1997. Many industries temporarily ceasedproduction, and
trade was interrupted. Although the new government stabilizedthe economy from 1997,
the social effects wereprofound. Inaddition to the loss oflife, thousands ofpeople were
impoverished either by their unwiseinvestmentsinthe pyramid schemes or by the
destruction o f their property inthe ensuingvi01ence.~The influx o f 300,000 refugees
following the Kosovo Crisis in 1998-99 put even greater strain on Albania's
infrastructure, particularly for water inthe peri-urban areas.




3. Jarvis, Christopher. 1999. "The Rise andFall o f the PyramidSchemes inAlbania," IMFWorkingPaper
99198. International MonetaryFund:WashingtonD.C.

                                                    4


 Table 1: Objectives,Components and Costs (US$million)
                      I                                                                  Cost at    Cost at
       Objective                                 Components                             Appraisal Completion

 Durres Water Suuulv Rehabilitation Project

                        0    Improve and rehabilitate the district water supply and
                            transmission system, replace well fieldpumps at Fushe
                            Kruja, rehabilitate high lift pumping stations at Fushe     11.31      11.46
                            Kuqe,FusheKrujaand five smallbooster stations and
                            construct a new 2000 m3water reservoir.
 1. Eliminate water     0   implementwater loss reductionand demandmanagement
 shortages and              programs, install water meters at throughout the system
 associated health          and 20,000 consumer meters, convert billing system from      0.75       2.36
 risks to the existing      flat rate to a fully meteredvolume based billing, and
 population inthe           implementapromotionalprogram for water conservation
 project area               and inspection o f all consumer connections.

                        0   repair the sewerage system inthe Durres district, replace
                            damaged sections o f sewers and construct a 1.5 km
                            collector sewer, rehabilitate eight sewage pumping           0.57       0.57

                            stations, and provide equipment for sewer cleaning.
                       \
 2. Establish a strong      restructure and strengthen the water and sewerage utilities
local institutional         through a twinningpartner focusing on management o f
framework for the           finance, information and maintenance. Update the water
provision o f water         supplymaster planand prepare a sewerage master plan
supplyand sewerage          and provide operation, maintenance and office equipment.
services so that the                                          o Water supply             1.78       1.21
improvements will                                             o Sewerage                 0.74      0.25
be sustainable          0   ProjectPreparation                                           1.77       1.37
                                                                         Contingencies  -
                                                                                        2.61
                                                                             Total Cost 19.52     17.22
 WaterSuuulv Urpent Rehabilitation Project

                        0  Durres: construct seven new wells at Fushe Kuqe and
                           rehabilitatehpgrade pumpsand piping at the main station      2.74      5.38
                            and improve the transmission main.

                        0  Prepare a feasibility study and master plan for a new        0.62      0.16
1. Improve water           water supply systemfor rural villages along the
supply services in         transmission main inthe Durres area.
the municipalities o f
Durres,Fier, Lezha,     0  Fier: rehabilitate well heads and replace pumping and        2.06      2.50
and Saranda.               electrical equipment, and rehabilite three feeder mains.

                        0  Lezha: reconstruct distribution mains, and rehabilitate
                           Barbulloja well field ,three pumping stations and replace    2.15      1.83
                           mechanical and electrical equipment.

                        Q  Saranda: reconstruct the gravity transmission main from      0.32
                           Navarice spring and feeder mains to villages.                          0.25

                        0  Overall management and provisions o f consultants and
                           support for the PIU.                                         3.08      2.73
                                                                       Contingencies    3.67        -
                                                                           Total Cost  14.64     13.17

                                                   5


 12.      These events adversely affected implementationo f the Durres Project. All Bank
 activities were suspended in 1997 for ninemonths, slowing procurement and civil works.
 The lack o f law and order -helpedby weapons stolen from government's armories -
 increased the number o f illegal connections and made collectiono fbills almost
 impossible. The three changes o f government inthe period 1995-2000 andpreoccupation
 with survival and stabilizationnullifiedattention to legal andregulatory reform o fthe
 water and sanitation utilities until 1998. As a result, the Bank dropped the twinning
 arrangement. Uncertaindemographics made updating o f the water plan, and preparation
 o f a sewerage master plan, premature and these were also dropped.

 13.      Bythe time the UrgentRehabilitationproject startedimplementationin2000,
 conditions had stabilized, although there were three changes of responsible Ministers (in
 a ten-monthperiod) each o fwhom had different views on the projects4The Credit
 Agreement was amendedtwice: first, becauseappointment o ftheprivate sector
 contractor was delayed by 2% years to June 2002, and second, to extend project closing
 by one year becauseessential repackaging o fcontacts causeddelays inprocurement. And
 a 20 percent devaluation of the US$ and SDR against the Euro inMarch2002 caused
 partial completiono f some components, the major shortfall being that only three-quarters
 o f the new Lezhadistribution main was completed.




 3. Evaluation

 Counterfactuals

 14,     Inthe absenceoftheDurresProjectitwas assumedthat water saleswould decline
by2.5 percentper annumuntil 1999 and stabilize thereafter. As a result, cash flows
would be insufficient to ensure financial self-sufficiency and continued subsidies would
berequired.Poor operation andmaintenance would continue and infrastructurewould
continue to deteriorate exacerbating unaccounted water losses and increasing water
shortages inthe supply area. Without institutionalreform and attentionto rehabilitation,
the only alternative to ensure adequate water would be to increase water supplies at a
minimumcost ofUS$17million.

15.      Inthe absenceofthe Urgent RehabilitationProject itwas assumedthat excessive
water losses from the supply andwater transmission system would continue due to
further systemdeterioration, leakage andillegalconnections. This would increase the
risks o f systems failure and threats to public health. Not only would this continue the
water shortage inthe urban areas (and excessive mostly illegal consumptioninthe
adjacent peri-urbanand agricultural areas) it would also incur high costs becauseo f lost
water sales and wasted pumpingcosts. Institutionally, it was assumedthe absence o f this
project would meanthat emergency repairs andrehabilitationwould be put on hold,
furtherjeopardizing service deliverywhile amore comprehensive strategy for sustainable

4. For example, one minister discontinuedthe PIUstaffs' contracts for five monthswhile he considered
replacedthe staff - eventually they were retained.

                                                6


 development o f the sector was being developed incooperation with development partners
 (Italy, Germany, EUPhare, Austria, USAID, ECHO andJapan).

 Expected Benefits and Risks

 16.      The Durresproject was expected to provide improved services to about 155,000
 people o fwhom 42 percent, including 19,000 poor, would receive substantially better
 service. About 45,000 consumers inKavajawould have their supplies ensuredbut not
 improved. Improved sewerage services were expected to benefit 100,000 people. The
 main risks were that rehabilitation would not reduce losses enough to improve service,
 that there would be delays, and that the DurresDistrict Water Works would not be able to
 finance its local costs. The borrower agreedto mitigate these risks by engaging expatriate
 consultants and the Bank through frequent missions and quarterly progress reports on the
 DDWW's finances.

 17.     The UrgentRehabilitationProject's mainbenefits would bemoving the water
 utilities towards financial self-sufficiency through water and electricity savings and
 increased water sales. The main risk, that urgent rehabilitation would not improve
 services, would be mitigatedby close supervision and accelerated introduction o fPSP.

Monitoring and Evaluation.

 18.     Bothprojects had robust arrangements for M&Eo fproject impacts on the water
utilities performance. Operational and perfomance indicators for water delivery, finances
andmanagement were clearly defined and agreed during each appraisal. The Urgent
RehabilitationProject identified, inter alia, four key outputhmpact indicators: (i)   the
proportion o f the network meetingresidualchlorine andbacteriological standards; (ii)
ensuring at least 80 liters per capita per day (lcd) receivedby all customers; (iii)
reduction o f electricity consumption; and (iv) "the impact o fwater losses inparts o f the
network." The "impact" indicator under (iv) was a target figure for reduction o fthe
volume o fwater loss ineach city.

OUTCOME

19.      The outcome o fthe DurresWater SupplyRehabilitationProject is rated by OED
as unsatisfactory. All the anticipated risks (para 16) were realized. It failed to establish a
strong local institutionalframework for the provision o fwater supply and sewerage
services and only partly met its second objective to eliminate water shortages.

20.      Conversely, the Water SupplyUrgent RehabilitationProject substantially
achieved its objective with few shortcomings and OED rates it as satisfactory. These
ratings confirm the self-evaluation by the ECA region. Table 2 summarizes how these
ratings are derived from the relative importance o f project objectives, their relevance, and
the efficacy and efficiency oftheir achievement. A more detailed discussion o fproject-
specific evaluation findings follows.

                                                   7


 RELEVANCE

 21.       Bothprojects were relevant at appraisal and remained so at completion. The
 Durres project was one the government's priority areas for infrastructureimprovement.
 The 1993 Country Assistance Strategy emphasized rehabilitationo fAlbania's dilapidated
 infrastructure that was a disincentive to foreign investment and growth o f the private
 sector, andthe project also resonated with the CAS'S intentionto addresspoverty
 alleviation and environmental improvement. However, at the municipal level, the
 institutionalobjectives o f the Durresproject were less relevant becausethey were far too
 ambitious interms o f major institutionalreform and capacity buildingenvisaged given
 modest municipal ownership that was further weakened by the economic and political
 crisis o f the late-1990s. Overall relevance o fthe DurresProject i s thus rated as modest.

 Table 2: Ratingsfor Achievement of Project Objectives
                 Objectives             Importance  Relevance    Efficacy    Efficiency  OUTCOME
  Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation
  Physical
   1. Eliminate water shortages and
  associated health risks to the                                                         Moderately
  existing population inthe project     Substantial   High       Modest      Modest      Satisfactory
  area
  Institutional
  2. Establish a strong local
                      I
  institutional framework for the         High       Modest     Negligible  Not rated   Unsatisfactory
                                                                                            Highly
  provision o f water supply and
  sewerage services so that the
  improvements will be sustainable
                        Overall ratings             Substantial Negligible   Modest     Unsatisfactory

  Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation
  Physical
  1.Improve water supply services in
  the municipalities o fDurres, Fier,     High     High         Substantial Substantial Satisfactory

  Lezha, and Saranda.
                         Overall rating    -       High        Substantial Substantial   Satisfactory


22.       A t appraisal, the Urgent Rehabilitationproject's development objectives were
consonant with the strategy endorsed by the consortium o f development partners. This
strategy saw infrastructure rehabilitationas a step towards sustainable management o f
Albania's water service and sanitation sectors that would successively evolve to
corporatization, commercialization and eventually PSP. Avoidance o f a direct
institutionalbuildingcomponent increased its relevance. The difficulties encountered in
harvesting the h i t s o f infrastructure improvements under the project served only to
highlighthow important institutionaldevelopment was to successful management ofthe
sector thus pavingthe way for the follow-on Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
that was approved inDecember 2002.

23.      Although not included inthe Bank's 1998 CAS, it was added to the 2001 CAS
Progress Report because it would mitigate some o f the problems causedby the Kosovo

                                                       8


 Crisis. The UrgentRehabilitation Project was also included inthe 2002 CAS as it not
 only supported Albania's growth and PovertyReductionStrategy but was relevant to the
 CAS'S emphasis on improving naturalresources management, poverty alleviation and
 buildingcapacity o f local institutions. Thus overallrelevance i s ratedas high.

 EFFICACY

 The Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project

 Objective 1: Elimination of water shortages and associated health risks was only
 partially achieved.

 24.      The Durres project substantially achieved its physicaltargets andwithin schedule
 despite the civil unrest - a remarkable achievement. The physical results ensuredthat the
 water service inDurres didnot deteriorate further. The operation o fthe pumpingstations
 at the well fields was improved and the systemwas partly rehabilitated. While it i s
 possible that water shortages were reduced modestly because o fhigherrates o f supply,
 there are no operational indicators to confirm the impact o f the improvementsbecause the
 relevant institutional components failed to deliver. Access to water (hours per day)
 showed negligibleimprovements (Table 3). Seweragewas rehabilitatedas plannedand
 untreated sewage i s now discharged sufficiently far offshore to eliminate pollution o f
Durres's beaches. Although 60 percent o f water samples showed residual Chlorine, and
 92 percent o f water samples met acceptable coliform standards, there was no baseline to
 allow improvements to be discerned.

25.       Water meter installation only partiallymet targets and didnot satisfy water
conservation objectives. Some 60 percent o f the proposed number o f water meters was
installed. Inall, about halfthe installedmeters (8,830) were used to measure customers'
consumption, the balance beingused'to monitor system flows. Continued installationo f
customer meters under the UrgentRehabilitationProject increased the total to11,052 by
2004 (Annex B).' Generally, the meters enabled accurate water billinginthe inner city
areas where the water supply was inadequate and led to decreasedrevenues.6I t would
have been better ifmeters hadbeen installedinthe highconsumptionperi-urban areas but
civil disobedience precludedthis (para 11).

Objective 2: A strong local institutional framework for the provision of water
supply and sewerage services was not achieved.

26.      The project fell seriously short o fthe expected achievements primarily becauseo f
the insecure working environment, and government's preoccupationwith political
stabilization. As a result, the institutionalobjective became unachievable and the agreed
twinning arrangement with a foreignwater utility, while negotiated, was not
implemented.Project support was modest and limitedto reconstructionand
reorganization o f the office space and the partial implementationo f the computerized

5. The actual supply was higher than envisaged at project appraisal.
6. Under flat rate billing the assumption was 150 lcd, metering showed actual consumption was only 76 lcd
and thus revenue from inner city metered areas was reduced by almost half.

                                                           9


 billingsystem(under aUSAIDgrant). While improved office space made financial
 management functions more effective, computerized billing only initiated a new system
 and relevant staff training. Inaddition, some equipment was supplied to make O&M
 more effective.

 Water Supply UrgentRehabilitationProject

 Objective 1: Improvementsof water supply services in the municipalitiesof Durres,
 Fier,Lezha,and Sarandawere mixed.

 27.       The Urgent Rehabilitation Project substantially achieved its physical components
 but completionof several itemswas delayed to the followingproject.' Not all outcomes
 can be attributed to the Bank's project becausethe EUPhare Programwas also active in
 Fier, Lezhe, and Saranda.

 28.       The main achievements o fthe project were hrther repairs andrehabilitationo f
 source works and improvements to the transmission system to ensure that water was
 more evenly distributedto consumers. Over 1,200 major leaks were repaired. The
 installationo f new pumpingunits, as well as the rehabilitation o f some existing ones,
 reducedpower consumption at several facilities by 35 millionkwha year but this was
 offset by increases inpower tariffs.' Service reliability, however, especially inFier and
 Saranda, was disruptedbypower outages. The assessmentmissionwas also informedthat
 intowns where the supplyhours are fewer than about 10hours aday, customers have
 installed storage tanks (roof-tanks) and appropriate booster pumps to make service
 available at times when the mains are not pressurized. This indicates customers would be
 willing to pay more for uninterruptedwater service to avoid this cost.

29.       Water quality testing indicates that significant water quality improvements have
beenachieved (except inLezha), Table 3, but there are no data to determine what impact
these improvements have had on public health. Only Saranda shows any tangible
improvement inthe hours o f service per day and a substantial coverage o f sewerage. It
should be notedthat sewage i s not treated at any o f these localities. The data for 2000
were based on various reports and informationprovidedduringthe interviews by the
OED assessmentmissioninJune 2004. The data for 2004 are chiefly based on the first




7. Repairs to the break-pressure tank inthe Durres supply pipeline were not carried out as it could be taken
out o f service for the length o f time needed to repair it. Rehabilitation o fthe Fier well field was not
impIemented due to significant delays inreplacement o fpumps and construction o f a new transmission
mainunder parallelEUfinding. Replacement o f the gravity transmission main inSaranda was not
implemented, but some immediate improvements inthe water inflow to the distribution system were
achieved by rearranging a number o f connections to the main and through improved operational
procedures.
8. Power tariffs were US$O.O26/kwh at appraisal and rose to US$0.04kwh at completion of the Durres
Project.
9. The mainreport usedinthis respect is the'"Benchmarking Baseline: Durres, Fier, Lecha, and Saranda"
by RODECO Consulting GMBH, May 2004.

                                                                10


 annual operations report by the private operator who runs the water and sewerage service
 inthe four towns (Annex B)."



 Table 3. Mixed Progress in Service Provision through 2004
 LocationA7tility        Service reliability                Samples testingsafe (%)           Sewerage coverage

                       Daily service hours      '          Residual         Coliforms
                                                           Chlorine
                        2001"           2004          2000       2004      2000       2004      2000      2004
   ~~        ~~
  Durres DWW              2.2            2.3            60        87        92         97     No data        50
  FierWW                  8.0            7.3            29        93        96         96     reliably
                                                                                              available      70

  Lezha WW               20.9           21.0             6        0         93        lood for 2000          50
  Saranda WW             2.1             7.4           21         74        88         100                   90
 Notes:
 a. monitoring covered only the latter part of 2001.
 b. hours of service are monthly averages over Jan      - May 2004.
 c. % of samples testing safe, Le. meeting Albanian standards; residual chlorine are from the RODECO report, coliform
     count data are monthly averages over Jan    - May   2004.
 d. there is only one record of test results, April -04 for Lezha.

 30.       While the averagewater consumption of all customers has increased by almost 20
percent or from 57 lcdto 68 lcd, Table 4, the project met targets to increase consumption
 inareas usinglessthan80 lcd. Specifically, 63 percent o fthepopulation(Durres and
 Saranda) increased their consumptionby almost 50 percent. Water service i s now safer,
 and no water-borne health incidents have beenreported duringthe last few years.

Table 4: An increasing proportion of people get more water each day (Icd)
Location and Utility                       Consumers (2004)                 2001/02                    2004
Durres                                             45,983                      36                       53
Saranda                                              4,893                     44                       74
Fier                                               26,748                      84                       84
Leche                                                4,677                     97                       97
                Total or Average                   80,297                      57                       68

Source: BerlinWasser International AG and OED field assessment 2004.


EFFICIENCY

31.        Operational improvements achieved through the projects, though important, are
just abeginning,A major effort is still requiredto produce significant gains in
operational efficiency. Combined actual project costs (US$30.4 million) were roughly 90
percent o fthe appraised costs (US$34.1 million). The reductionresulted from the scaled-
down institutionalcomponents inthe first project, and some changes inphysical
components inbothprojects. The average investmentper capita was about US$84, based


10.BerlinWasser International AG; the report covers its first year o f operation, August 2003 -- July 2004,
under its 5-year management contract under the World Bank supported "Municipal Water and Wastewater
Project," a follow-on project to the Urgent RehabilitationProject.

                                                     11


 on the total served population. For a typical rehabilitation project, this i s reasonable
 consideringthat the systems require a major overhaul that i s yet to be completed under
 the ongoing follow-on project."

 32.      DurresProject.Contraryto expectations at appraisal, overallproductionand
 water sales did not improve duringthe life o fthe Durres project. Production only
 marginally increased (6 percent) under the Urgent Rehabilitation Projectwhile sales
 remainedstatic. The major problemwas that the demand forecasts at appraisal were
 based on faulty data, and assumptions about increasing industrial and commercial
 demandcould not take into account the contraction ofthe economy andthe cooling effect
 o f the late 1990s political instability.l2Unaccounted for water (Ufw),instead o fbeing 50
 percent o fproduction in 1994, was found to be 72 percent, and inDurresthis increasedto
 74 percent in2003/04, mainly becauseo f the inability to bill an increasing number o f
 water consumers. Water tariffs were increasedbut didnot cover costs. Inconsequence,
 the Durres investmentneverproduced the expected income, andthe estimated economic
 rate o freturn(ERR) was estimated to be about 7 percent. Thus efficiency o f the Durres
 Project i s rated as modest.

 33.      UrgentRehabilitationProject.Unlikethe DurresProject, incremental water
 savings from urgent repairs and associatedenergy savings were closely monitored and
 provided a sound basis for ERR estimation. The average ERRweighted by investment
 costs was 35 percent and ranges from 11percent for the Lazha distributionmain
 improvements to 156 percent for the SarandaNavarice spring and transmission main
 (Annex B6). Efficiencyi s thus rated as substantial.

INSTITUTIONAL        DEVELOPMENT

 34.      Durres Project.Compared with expectations, institutional development is rated
as negligibleas almost nothing was achieved (para 26). The security situationwas
unstable, industrialwater consumption declined significantly, and Government actions to
remove illegal connections and disconnect non-payingcustomers failed due to other more
pressingpoliticalpriorities. The lack o fprogress inmeetingthe respective institutional
goals for the Durres Water was the reason for canceling the loan 14 months prior to the
original closing date. A major factor contributing to this was that government required
the PIUto report directly to the Ministry o fPublic Works rather then working directly
with Durres Water as was intended

35.       UrgentRehabilitationProject.Overallinstitutionalperformance is rated as
modest. Institutionaldevelopment was not a project objective, although it was expected


11. D u e s Municipality observes (Annex C ): "We see that the average investmentper capita was US$84,
which is a very low financing figure comparing with the financing rate done inthe same sector by the other
donors. For example KfW is financing an average more than US$300/capita inthe other cities inAlbania
for the similar projects."
12. Industrial demand was project to increase from4.0 million &/year   in1994to 12.1&/year    million
m3/year in2010; actual demand was 0.4 m3/yearin 1994 and 0.3 m3/yearin2000. Similarly institutional
and commercial demand was projected to be 3.7 m3/year millionm3/yearin 1994 and 7.8 millionm3/yearin
2000; actual demand was 1.O millionm3/yearin 1994 and 0.4 million m3/yearin2000.

                                                                12


 that the project would facilitate institutionalimprovements andhelp create an
 environment conducive to a private operator. A first step inthis process was the merger
 o f water and sewerage management ineach o f the four utilities, introducing sewage
 tariffs and increasing water tariffs. A Private Operator took over the management o f the
 four water utilities in September 2003 and has introducedanew benchmarking system
 that i s beingroutinely maintainedas part o f the follow-on project. Selected performance
 indicators, including financial indicators, demonstrate the extent o f operational
 improvements as summarized inTable 5.



 Table 5. Selected Performance Indicators for 2000 and 2003

Location/Utility                  utw(%)             Co//ectionrate PA) a  Working ratio PA)    *    Staff index
                           2000      2003-04        2000      2003-04     2000        2003-04     2000    JuI-04
  Durres DWW                   73          74           34         64                     234       8.5       9.1

  Fier WW                                                                  No data
                               59          80           33         46       reliably      252       5.0       8.5

  Lezha WW                     61          60           33         50      available      228
                                                                           for 2000                 13.0      20.5

  Saranda WW                   63         80            33         64                     215      12.8       15.3
--Notes:2003-04
  The data for 2000 is chiefly based on the RODECO report, also on the information from interviews.
a - ratio of receipts to billings
  The           is the first contract year of the private operator
b - ratio of Total Cash Operating Costs divided by Total Collected Revenues
c -staff per 1000 connections (internationally accepted levels are 2 or 3)

36.        The performance indicators show that despite efforts to reduce physical water
losses, the UfW i s still highinall project towns. Infact, the numbers indicate a
worsening situation, especially inFier and Saranda. I t i s believed, however, that the data
are not fully comparable, i.e. the 2000 data are not as accurate as the most recent data.13
Onlyrecently, meaningfuldata hasbeen established for recording financial Performance
indicators such as working ratio; the private operator has reported working ratios varying
from 215 percent inSarandato 252 percent inFier. These indicators can now be usedas a
baseline for monitoring futureprogress toward the acceptable level o f less than 100
percent. Ingeneral, the data on collectionrate shows significant improvement, but the
absolute level o f collections i s still far below the requiredrange o f 80 to 90 percent. The
same applies to the data on staff index that are unacceptably high.Future targets should
be inthe order o f 2 to 3 staffper thousand connections.

37.       Overall, the performance o f the water companies inthe four project towns has not
yet reached the targeted level. Evenso, the Urgent RehabilitationProject, as intended,
enabled the water companies to maintain a reasonable level o f service, kept the systems
from collapsing, and helped to initiate some operations improvements, both physical and
financial. And most importantly, for ongoing and future improvements, the
benchmarkingsystem established i s likelyto be expanded under the follow-on project.




13. UfW for 2000 was based on rough estimates; 2004 data is based on recorded water flow measurements
at feeder points and, for the mostpart, on metered consumption o f water.

                                                13


 SUSTAIN ABILITY

 38.     Durres Project. Eventhough the project was too ambitious given the situation in
 Albania, benefits generated were sustained or improved by the follow-on projects. Thus
 sustainability of the Durres project i s rated as likely.

 39.     Urgent Rehabilitation Project. The efforts requiredjust to maintain the status
 quo were demanding, let alone actions to bringabout major institutionalreforms and
 operations improvements inone go. However, the field assessment demonstrated that
benefits generated by the project are being sustained, helpedbythe follow-on project that
buildson achievements to date. The assessmentmissionwas informedthat,
unfortunately, the private operator has encountered serious staffing problems that have
 delayed an effective start-up o f the project. Fortunately, there i s now considerable
borrower support for the sector bolsteredby a strong alliance o f development partners,
including the Bank, under the local coordinationo f EUPhare. Thus sustainabilityi s rated
as likely.

BANKPERFORMANCE

40.     Durres Project. Project designwas too ambitious and not well-founded inthe
institutionalrealities o fAlbania. Compoundingthis problemthe project was poorly
supervisedand the Bank was slow to react when the performance turnedout to be
unacceptable and the project hadto be terminated early. This action ledto a complete
change o f strategy that recognized that more time was neededto build local ownership
and capacity for sector and utility reform while infrastructurerehabilitationcontinued. At
the completiono f the Durres project, the Bank prepared an "intesive learning ICR", with
substantive involvement by the borrower, including a workshop. Findings were helpful
for implementation o f the follow-on UrgentRehabilitationProject and for appraisal o f the
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project. Evenso, overall Bank performance -
unsatisfactory appraisal and supervision - is rated as unsatisfactory

41.      Urgent Rehabilitation Project. The Bank clearly learned a number o f lessons
from the Durresproject that ledto substantially improvedperformance. Project design
was straightforwardand focused on the physical essentials. Government's Policy Letter
that laid out the principles andpathway to sector reform (see para 44, a conditions o f
negotiations) proved to be a successful guide to elaboration o f a more coherent and
phased sector reform program. Supervision was proactive and effective. Simultaneously,
the Bank successfully worked with government, local authorities and external
stakeholders to improve the policy environment for the follow-on project, a step at a time,
buildingownership inthe process. OverallBankperformance is thus ratedas satisfactory.

BORROWER      PERFORMANCE

42.     Durres Project. The PIUprovedto be effective. Although the borrower firmly
endorsed the sector reforms envisaged as part o f the Durres project. This i s provedto be
more challengingthan expected. Actual commitment by the government and participating
municipalities indicateda poor understanding o f the importance o f reform, a situationnot
helpedby frequent personnel changes inthe Ministryo fPublic Works. And this lack of

                                                      14


 commitment nullifiedimplementationo f the institutional components. Overall borrower
 performance on the Durresproject i s rated as unsatisfactory.

 43.       Urgent Rehabilitation Project. Effectively prepared by the PIU inonly six
 months, the project was effectively implemented. The PIUwas further strengthened
 through engaging a team o f specialists to assist the local team inthe preparation o f
 detailed engineeringdesigns, projectsupervision, and procurement. This was found to be
 an effective way o fproviding on-the-job training for members o f the PIU. The assistance
 and training was also expanded to cover financial operations o f the water works o f the
 participatingtowns. Participatingtowns, local authorities, and the PIU all demonstrated
 sound commitment and keeninterest inimplementing the project ina timely fashion.
 Overall, the borrower performance i s rated as satisfactory..




 5. Outlook and Lessons

 44.      The assessedprojects were prepared and implementedduring a time o f major
 political and economic changes inAlbania. The projects successfully addressedurgent
 rehabilitationneeds to ensure the continuity o f the vital water supply and sewerage
 services with the main focus on the rehabilitationo f the existing facilities. Performance
 was less successful on institutionalissues although this improved under the Urgent
 Rehabilitationproject. Generally, institutional objectives were too optimistic compared
 with arealistic timeframe to builda constituency and accomplish fundamental reforms.

 45.     A comprehensive approach to provisionof water supplies is requiredto address
 competition for scarce water resources. Thus, sustainabilityo f Durres water supply
 dependsvery not only onrehabilitatingwater infrastructure within the urban areasbut
 also on addressing and regulatingthe water supply needs of adjacent rural areas.l4

 46.     Since the Durres project, however, the government's water sector reformhas
 gathered momentum and i s developing along the principles outlined inthe Policy Letter
o f 2000. Specifically, government agreed to strengthen its stewardship and management
o f water resources and water quality through appropriate laws and regulation, and
devolve investment and decision-making on water and wastewater services to local
governments. Government also agreed that water andwastewater utilities shouldbecome
corporatized and autonomous entities operating on a commercial basis, and that water
and wastewater tariffs shouldbe allow to increase to cover all operating costs. To
facilitate commercialization, private sector participationwould be allowed, initially on
management or lease contracts.



14. The Mayor o fDurres notes (Annex C): "Durres water supply systemis composed by a main
transmission o f 45km long up to the distribution reservoir. There are connected around 40 villages along
this main transmission. These villages do not have correct distribution networks, which make difficult the
improvement o f the water management inthese areas. Representing only 40% o f the population served, the
rural area is consuming (and misusing) 60% o f the water. I t remains available for Durres city a quantity of
the water corresponding to 70lldaylcapita."

                                                15


 47.     The Council o fMinisters formally adopted a National Water Supply and
 Sanitation Strategy and a Rural Water and Sanitation Strategy in2003 that translates the
 Policy Letter into Albanian legislation. Within the context o f the NWSSS, govemment
 has defined an actionplanto improve the performance o f water utilities. The general
 Directorateo f Water Supply and Seweragewill no longer have a service delivery
 function and instead focus on monitoring sector performance, defining capital and
 management needs and improvingpublic service sector performance. Under the Law on
 Organizationand Function o f Local Government, ownership o fwater supply and
 sewerage infrastructure i s transferred to local governments and with it the powers to set
 tariffs andmanage utilities. A Water Utility Regulatory Commission has been set up to
 license water supply utilities andprovide amethodology for transparent setting o f tariffs.

 48.     New water tariffproposals were cleared bythe Municipal Councils for Fierand
 Lezha inmid-2004 and submittedto the Water RegulatoryEntityfor final approval. In
 Dunes and Saranda the issue o f tariff increaseshas become politicized, as has the
 independence o f the utilities from municipal interference. An ongoingpublic awareness
 program may help to mitigate some o fthese problems which are well-known problems in
 the transition to private and commercialmanagement.

 49.     This project performance assessment supports three lessons for broader
 application:

 Lesson 1. I t is important to exerciseflexibility when aprojectfaces implementation
problems in a seriously difJicultsituation.

 Underthese two projects, the Bank was flexible enough to terminate the first project and
 quickly move on to the next step, an interim operation to ensure the continuation o f
 urgentlyneededrehabilitationo f existing service facilities. Withthis arrangement, the
 Bankbought moretime to preparea firmer base for fundamental sector reforms. At the
 same time, this move made it possible to cope with evenmore urgent issues arising from
the crisis causedby the influx o f refugees from Kosovo.

Lesson 2. Sequencing of demanding reform activities and major rehabilitation efforts, as
well as the timeframe for their implementation, need to be adequately analyzed to take
full account ofpractical priorities and the available implementation capacity.

Too many demanding activities at one time may heavily over-tax the implementation
capacity o f utilities moving out o f the public sector - a thorough evaluation o f local
capacity i s essential. The Bank also needs to take the time to ensure a fullunderstanding
o f the impact o freforms and the realpolitical commitment among stakeholders to
accomplish them. Inthe evaluated projects, the need for institutional reform only became
clear to many stakeholders when investment ininfrastructure improvement alone failed to
significantly improve service delivery and operational indicators. Thus the ongoing
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project, Credit 37300 approved inMarch 2003, has
been able to give a much greater prominenceto capacity buildingand institutional
reform.

                                             16


Lesson 3. Establishment of a benchmarking system as early aspossible in the sector
support cycle is importantfor facilitating appropriate monitoring of progress and
evaluation of impact of activities.

The UrgentRehabilitationproject initiatedthe benchmarkingof sector activities and it
was not a moment too early. Reliable data on sector and project performance i s enabling,
for the first time, comparison and analysis of factors affecting utility performance. More
comprehensive operational data will facilitate the introduction and scaling up o fPSP in
more utilities inAlbania.

                                                  17                                       Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

ALBANIA:DURRES             WATER AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT(CREDIT
 2610-ALB)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                               Appraisal          Actual or         Actual as % of
                                                estimate       current estimate    appraisal estimate
Original commitment                              11.61               11.43                98.4
Total cancellation
Total project cost                               19.53              17.22                 88.2
Cancellation


ProjectDates
                                                       Original                      Actual
PCD                                                                                06/01/1992
Appraisal                                                                          0511111993
Board approval                                                                     0511011994
Effectiveness                                                                      01/04/1995
Closing date                                         12/31I2001                    10/05/2000


CumulativeEstimatedand ActualDisbursements
                            FY94  FY95      FY96       FY97      FY98       FY99     W O O      FYOl
Appraisal estimate          0.2    1.6       3.7        5.8       7.9        10.0    11.1        11.6
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)               0.0    1.3       2.4        5.0       7.2        8.1      9.9        11.5
Actual as % of amraisal            81         65        86         91         81      89         99
Date of final disbursement:       December 31,2001


StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       N" Staff weeks                          us$us$~ooo)
IdentificationlPreparation                  84.7                                  160
AppraisalINegotiation                       66.8                                  102
Supervision                                 115                                  271.9
ICR                                          13                                   56
Total                                       279                                   590

                                                        18                                            Annex A


Mission Data
                   Date      No. of                                                       Performance rating
                (monthlyear) persons           Specializations represented          lmplementation Development
                                                                                        Progress      Objective
 Identification/  3/3/92        1     Sanitary Engineer
Preparation
 Identification/  6115/92       1     Sanitary Engineer
Preparation
 Identification/  7/27/92       1     EnvironmentalConsultant
Preparation
Identification/   9/21/92       2     Sanitary Engineer, EnvironmentalConsultant
Preparation
Identification/  10/26/92       1     EnvironmentalConsultant
Preparation
Identification/   2/1/93        1     Sanitary Engineer
Preparation
Identification/   3115/93       2     Sanitary Engineer, Urban Financial
Preparation                           Specialist
Appraisal1        6114/93       1     Sanitary Engineer
Negotiation
Supervision      05111/94       1     Sanitary Engineer
Supervision       6130194       3     Financial Specialist (2), Sanitary Engineer
Supervision       2/8/95        1     Sanitary Engineer                                    S             H S
Supervision       6/9/95        1     Sanitary Engineer                                    S              S
Supervision      4/24/96        6     Sanitary Engineer (2), Economist,Sr.                 S              S
                                      Operations Officer, Assistance Project
                                      Officer, FinancialAnalyst
Supervision       12/96         1     Sanitary Engineer                                    S              S
Supervision        7/97        4      Sr. OperationsOfficer , FinancialAnalyst,            S              S
                                      Economist,Assistance Project Officer
Supervision        1I98        4      Sanitary Engineer(2), Economist,                     S              S
                                      Assistance Project Officer
Supervision       12/98        4      Sanitary Engineer,Assistance Project Officer         S              U
Supervision       6/99         2      Sanitary Engineer,Assistance Project Officer         S              U
Supervision       12/99        2      Sanitary Engineer, Economist                         S              U
Supervision      412000        2      Economist, FinancialAnalyst                          S              U
Supervision       612000       2      Sanitary Engineer, Economist                         S              U
Supervision      812000        2      Sanitary Engineer, Economist                         S              U
ICR              01/2001       2      Sanitary Engineer, Economist
ICR              03l2001       2      Sanitary Ensineer, Economist


Other Project Data
BorrowerIExecutingAgency:
FOLL0W-ON OPERATlONS
Operation                                                  Credit no.          Amount            Board date
                                                                             (US$ million)

Municipal Water and Wastewater Project                     3730-ALB              15.0            01/28/2003

                                                19                                      Annex A



ALBANIA: WATERSUPPLY URGENT              REHABILITATION      PROJECT(CREDIT 3322-ALB)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                             Appraisal         Actual or          Actual as % of
                                              Estimate      current estimate    appraisal estimate
Original commitment                            10.00              9.93                 99.3
Total cancellation
Total project cost                             14.64             13.17                 90.0
Cancellation


ProjectDates
                                                    Original                      Actual
PCD                                                                             06/01/1999
Appraisal                                                                       11/09/1999
Board approval                                     02/24/2000                   02/24/2000
Effectiveness                                      07/14/2000                   07/14/2000
Closing date                                       03/01/2003                   03/01/2004


CumulativeEstimatedand ActualDisbursements
                               FYOf                FY02               FY03              FY04
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      2.0                  6.9                 9.9              9.9
Actual (US$M)                  0.7                  2.9                 6.9              9.9
Actual as % of appraisal        35                  42                  70               100
Date of final disbursement:    March 1, 2004


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                                     ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                     N" Staff weeks                         us$us$~ooo)
Identification/Preparation                                                    113.0
AppraisaVNegotiation                                                           83.0
Supervision                               113.12                              309.0
ICR                                       5.52                                 37.7
Total                                    118 64                               542 7

                                             20                                      Annex A



MissionData
Stage of project cycle            No of persons and specialty              Performance ratings
          Monthbear          Count              Specialty                  Imple.       Dev.
                                                                          progress    objectives
 Identification/Preparation
              0611999         1       Senior MunicipalEngineer
              0711999         1       Project Officer
                              1       Sanitary Engineer

 AppraisaVNegotiation
               10/1999        1       Project Officer
                              1       Senior MunicipalEngineer
                              1       Sanitary Engineer
                              1       Water and Sanitation Advisor
 Supervision
              0412000         12      SANITARY ENGINEER, ECONOMIST,            S          S
                                      PROCUREMENTSPEC., FIN MGMT
                                      OFFICER, FINMGMT SPEC. SR. DISB
                                      OFFICER, SR. COUNSEL, COUNSEL, SR.
                                      ENV SPECIALIST, WATER RESOURCES
                                      ECON, REGPROCUREMENTADV., REG
                                      FIN. MGMT. ADVISER


              07/06/2000      2       SANITARY ENGR., OPERATIONS                          S
                                      OFFICER(1)
              11123/2000      3      PTL (1); PROJECTOFFICER (1); RURAL                   S
                                     WATER SPECIALIST (1)
              01/24/2001      3      PROGRAMTEAM LEADER(1); PROJECT                       S
                                     OFFICER (1); FINANCMANAG. SPECIAL.

                                     (1)
              0312812001      2      PTL (1); LOCAL CONSULTANT (1)           S            S
              0511712001      3      SANITARY ENGINEER(1); ECONOMIST         S            S
                                     (1); RURALWATER SPECIALIST (1)
              07/30/2001      3      PTL (1); PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST (1);    S            S
                                     PROJECTOFFICER (1)
              10/18/2001      3      PTL (1); CONSULTANT (2)                 S            S
              04/25/2002      5      PTL(1); FINANCIALANALYST (1);           S            S
                                     CONSULTANT (3)
              08/02/2002      3      PTL (1); FINANCIALANALYST (1);            S           S
                                     CONSULTANT (1)
              01/15/2003      5      TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECTOFFICER           S            S
                                     (1); WATER AND SANITATION SPEC. (1);
                                     FINMGMT SPEC (1); COMMUNICATION
                                     SPEC (1)
              0711212003      6      PROGRAMTEAM LEADER (1);                   S            S
                                    CONSULTANT (3); SR. FINANCIAL
                                    ANALYST (1); ENGINEER(1)
              01/28/2004      7     PROGRAMTEAM LEADER (1); ENGINEER            S            S
                                     (2); SR PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                    CONSULTANT (2); PROJECTOFFICER (1)
ICR           0512004         1       FINIINST SPEC.,                           S            S
              0712004         3       TEAM LEADER,PROJOFFICER,                  S            S

                                          21                                Annex A


Other ProjectData
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                  Credit no.    Amount        Board date
                                                       (US$ million)

Municipal Water and Wastewater Project     3730-ALB       15.0          01/28/2003

                                                                   23                                              Annex B


 Annex B. K e y Performance Indicators
  DURRES WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT

  Project Targets and Monitoring Indica        rs



          Year                 I 1994           1995
                                                 ...         11996
                                                               ...         1 1997
                                                                              ..           1998
  Target I Indicators          IActual   SAR   Actual  SAR IActual   SAR IActual    SAR   Actual SAR
                                                             I             I
  Production           Mill M3    254     249   254    270     254   270      25.4  270    254    270    254    270   257     270
  Total Sales          Mill M3     7      U6     8 3   14.1    8.4    15      8 1   157     79    164    76     169     7     175
                                                 51    6 3      57    6 7     58     7.1    57    73     5 6    76     5 8    79
                                                 0 4   2 8     0 3    3 0     0 2   3 2     0 1   3 4    0.1    3.5   0 3     3 7
                                                 0 9   3 0     0 8    3 1     0 5   3 2    0 6    3 3    0 6    3 4   0 4     3 5
  C o m c i a l sales
                                                 19      2 0      16  2 2     16    2 2     15    2 4    13     2 4   0 5     2 4

 INon-revenuewater Mill    M ~ I  184     113    17.1  12 9     l7    P       173   113    175    10 6   178    101   187     9 5
  Non-revenuewater
  as%of production        %    II 72%     45%   67%    48%     67%   44%      68%   42%    69%    39%    70%    37%   73%     35%

 IDomticaccounts No 000          25386                                                    35 757        31585        34 623
  Metered                                                                                 8903          8,338         8,220
  Non-metwed                                                                              26 854        26 247       26 801
                                                                                            53    108    37     1P     28     117
  metered                                                                                  24      0      17     0      12      0
  N 0 n - dsed                                                                             29            20             16
                                                                                           810           899          931
                               I                                                           650    186    578    215   598     215
                                          69                                               150     0     321    0     333      0
                                  619
                                                                                                                      15957  2600
                                                                                                                      8,338

                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    I
  Metersinstalled      No 000     '04      0                                              9587   1300   15.942 1700
 meterread                                                                                              8,338

 D o m t i c tariffs   US$/m3    0 05    0 05                                              015   0064   025    0066   025    0068
 Industrialtariffs     USWm-3    0 52    0 40   0 52  0.40                                060    0.44   080    045    0 8 0  0 4 5
                                                                                                                              :;
 Govtwnmt Tariffs USYm3          0.52    0 30                                             0 52   0.31   0.30   0.31   0 3     0 3 1
 c o m c i a l tariff  USWm-3    0 52                                                      0.6           0 8
 Kavajatariff          USWX?     003     0.07                                             007    0.09    0.15  0095   ,",",
 Working Ratio         %                 60                                                185    50     144    48

                             I
 Bad Debts             ooo/us:     820   156    1,556   215 I  1,175 211 I   2,370  198   4,369   ?48   6.881   157I  6,030   164

 lntermlinvestmt       OOO/US     262     50                                                  61  50                      66  180
 Billings             OOOIUS      886    2,427                                             1,138 3,237                 1,657 3,576
 Total recavables     OOO/US       100   1,001                                              400   1,457                 504   1,491
                                                                                           306   315                  302     315
                                                                                            406  148                    333   148
I                                                                                          l,l70 942                         942
 Electricityconsumpt mllJkwd     419     43 3                                             40.7   471                  415    471
Debt reoavmt          OOOIUSS
Interest charges                                       546  1   -     826I    -     1,001   -    1,095
Principal
Depreciationexpens OOO/US                         72   365       41   502      44   601      48   636

ER US$ Lek                   1I  MO            92 8           104 5         l48 9         I50 8         0 77       I  142   I

Note
All values in US$areestimted with ER of 1994




               . ,
          r   r r




WI I I

                                            28                               Annex B


Table B6. Water Supply UrgentRehabilitationProject

 Component            I    EconomicRateof Return                 Net Pres t Value
                       At completion I  Appraisal      At completion           Appraisal

DurresWell Field,
Pumping Station and
PressureBreak
Chamber                    12%             35%     22.38 million Lek      1,202.72 million Lek
Component (Capital
cost: 248.09 million
Lek)

DurresTransmission
Main(Capital cost:         46%            53%      474.70 million Lek     101.55 million Lek
236.94 million Lek)

FierDistribution
Main(Capital cost:        20%              8%      226.93 million Lek    -6.27 million Lek
330.33 millionLek)


Main(Capital cost:         11%            29%      4.12 million Lek      31.06million Lek



o fWells and              82%             10%      284.52 million Lek    -1.28 million Lek
Pumping Stations
(Capital cost: 104.03


SarandaNavarice
Spring and                156%            11%      122.09million Lek     3.16 million Lek
Transmission Main
(Capital cost: 22.12
million Lek)

                     I              I


Total                I              I              1,134.74 millionLek   1,330.94 millionLek

                                                  29                                    Annex C


 Annex C. Commentsfromthe Borrower




 REPUBLIKA E SHQPERISE

                                     BASHKIA DURRES
                               e-mail:BashkiaDurres@atnet.com.al
                        Sheshi "Liria" ,tel & fax +355 52 234 54 /223 10

 Nr.extra Prot.                                                   Durres ,9" February, 2005

 To: The World Bank
 1818 HStreet N.W.
 Washington, D.C. 20433
 U.S.A.

 At the Kindattentionof:         Mr.Alain Barbu,
                                 Manager Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group
                                 Operations Evaluation Department



Dear Mr.Barbu,



Re:     Albania -Durres Water and Sanitation Rehabilitation (Credit 2610-ALB) and
         WaterSupply UrgentRehabilitation Project (Credit 3322-ALB) Projects.
        Comments on Draft Project Performance AssessmentReport.



IreceivedthedraftProjectPerformanceAssessmentReportcompiledbyOEDregardingto-
Durres Water and Sanitation Rehabilitation (Credit 261O-ALB) and Water Supply Urgent
Rehabilitation Projects. Before giving my comments on them, 1 am taking advantage o f this
opportunity for thanking the World Bank for its contribution inwater and other sectors for Durres
town.


The first project i s closed on October 2000, while the second i s closed on March 2004. In the
meantime is ongoing the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project, approvedinDecember 2002.

                                                     30                                    Annex C


  The assessment of two aforementioned projects is linked with the ongoing Municipality Water
  and Wastewater Project (MWWP), with the strategy in the sector followed up by the Albanian
  government supported from the World Bank and other foreign donors.


  We agree ingeneral with the assessment of the projects made by your department and the ratings
  for the achievement of project objectives. Indetails 1have the following comments for the two (in
  fact for the three) projects:


  1        We are conscious regarding the development o f the events during the execution time o f
  the first project (1997), which had a big negative impact inthe performance of the institutional
  reforms inthe waterworks company and in achievement o f the project objectives.


  2        Taking into consideration that the transition period in Albania was right in the start, the
 reel investment needs in Durres water supply system, the project outputs foreseen in DWSR
 project were to much optimistic, which made more difficult the final expected achievements o f
 the project.


 3         Efficiency assessment (page 10)
 We see that the average investment per capita was US$84, which i s a very low financing figure
 comparing with the financing rate done in the same sector by the other donors. For ex. KfW is
 financing an average more than US$300/capita in the other cities in Albania for the similar
 projects. This i s not only a difference o f numbers, but we think that the projects need more funds
 for the physical investments. Without neglecting the importance for the reinforcement o f the

 institutional aspects (illegal connections, water using for irrigation, low tariff collection rate,

monitoring and financial management etc), for which we are paying more and more attention,
here below we are briefly arguing the necessity o f increasing the physicals investment amount for
Durres.


Durres water supply system i s composed by a main transmission o f 4 5 h long up to the
distribution reservoir. There are connected around 40 villages along this maintransmission. These
villages do not have correct distribution networks, which make difficult the improvement o f the
water management inthese areas. Representing only 40% o f the population served, the rural area
i s consuming (and misusing) 60% o f the water. It remains available for Durres city a quantity of
the water corresponding to 70l/day/capita. Inthe last year the city population i s doubled by the

                                                    31                                      Annex C


  internal immigration fi-om the northeastern part o f the country. The target immigration areas, as:
  ex-swampy, Spitalla, Port0 Romano, beach, have very poor or not at all water and sewage
  networks. These areas need a complete new distribution networks. The MWWP covers only the
  operation investment costs, while the capital investment funds are foreseen to be covered by the
  coming projects financed by other donors (??). Infew words, the improvement o f the situation in
  the system i s closely linkedwith considerable financing o f the correct distribution networks inthe
 rural area and inthe areas subject o f the immigration.


 4        We are known with the coming project Integrated Coastal Management and Clean Up
 Program financed by the World Bank (it i s expected around US$50 mio), but Durres it i s not

 included on it.
 Durres city, with its modern commercial & tourist harbor andbeautiful beaches, i s the second city
 in Albania with a relevant weight of the country's GDP. In the summer time, Durres sandy

 beaches are receiving around 40% o f the tourists' country flux. The promotion o f tourist area o f
 Durres gulf can not be developed and promoted without a correct infrastructure, which actually i s
 missing or very poor. The sewage networks are completely missingin these areas, and the non
 appropriate septic tanks usedare a continuous risk for public health.


 5        Outlook and Lessons (page 15, point 47)
 Inthisparagraphismentioned:


 Quota

 ,...,.,I n Durres and Saranda the issue of tariff increases has become politicized, as has the

 independence of the utilityfrom munic@,alinterference.


Regarding this point we have the following comments:
Durres Municipality compounds more than 60% o f the customers o f Durres waterworks utility
and it i s the main actor in supporting institutionally the reforms to be undertaken by the Privat
Operator (Berlinwasser International Company) under the Management Contract.


The Operator's performance and the fulfillment of their contractual obligations has been several
times subject of hard discussions between Durres Municipality and the Operator's

representatives. Our reluctance (or better non supporting behavior) o f the request for the tariff
increase made from the Operator it was not politicized. Our view i s the water and wastewater

                                                   32                                       Annex C


tariff increase needs to be applied step by step and in parallel with the improvement o f the

services for the customers. Inthe meantime, it i s very difficult for us to support the tariff increase
infront of the Municipality Council (organ for approval ofthe new tariff), ifour citizens are not
seeing reel and visible improvement of the services.


Shortly these were my comments regarding your assessment report, which perhaps need a more

deep discussion in the future.


                                        Sincerely yours




                                         Lefter KOKA


                                         Durres Mayor

             33    Annex C




Simerely,

IBRD 28467R


