Document of
The World Bank
19715- ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.3 MILLION
(US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
FOR THE
WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
January 27, 2000
Infrastructure Sector UJnit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of September 1999)
Currency Unit =
LEK 1= US$ 0.001
US$ 1 = 135 LEK
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DDWW          Durres District Water Works
GOA           Government of Albania
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IS           International Shopping
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
l/c*d         Liters per capita per day
MoPW          Ministry of Public Works, Territory Adjustment and Tourism
PCR           Project Completion Report
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PMST          Project Management Support Team
PMST          Project Management Support Team
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PSP           Private Sector Participation
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Arntraud Hartmann, ECCO2
Sector Manager/Director:    Walter Stottmann/Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Andreas Rohde, ECSIN



Albania
WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     13
3. Benefits and target population                                                    14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         20
2. Financial                                                                         20
3. Technical                                                                         20
4. Institutional                                                                     20
5. Social                                                                            21
6. Environmental assessment                                                          21
7. Participatory approach                                                            22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   23
2. Critical risks                                                                    24



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     25
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            25
2. Other                                                                              25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          26
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          27
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             31
Annex 3: Estimnated Project Costs                                                        33
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   34
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               47
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       48
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     61
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   62
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  63
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            65
Annex 1 1: Environmental M\anagement Plan                                                67
MAP(S)
IBRD Map No. 28467R



ALBANIA
Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: January 27, 2000                            Team Leader: Andreas Rohde
Country Manager/Director: Arntraud Hartmann       Sector Manager/Director: Walter A. Stottmann
Project ID: P066491                               Sector(s): WW - Water Supply & Sanitation Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
C Loan         Z Credit        O Grant         Cl Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 10.0
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                    Service charge: 0.75%
01Fin  f     :     So-                                        o 
Government                                                     4.64            0.00          4.64
IBRD
IDA                                                             1.26           8.74         10.00
Total:                                                          5.90           8.74         14.64
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
Responsible agency: WORLD BANK WATER PIU IN DURRES & SUPPORTING CONSULTING FIRM
Address: Lagja Nr. 14 Rr. "Bajram Tusha", Durres, Albania.
Contact Person: Ndricim Shani
Tel: 355 52 226 39               Fax: 355 52 226 39                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
PY          2ooo,        2,1    I      XiO2      2O"3   1
Annual     0.5           2.0         6.5         1.0
Cumulative     0.5          2.5          9.0        10.0
Project implementation period: 2.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/01/2000  Expected closing date:  03/01/2003
OCS PAD F,.l ADtct9. l9'



A. Project Developiment Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objective of the proposed Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project is to support the Government of
Albania's (GoA) efforts to improve the services of water supply in the municipalities of Durres, Fier, Lezhe and
Saranda. The Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project is regarded as a forerunner of the Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project which is currently under preparation in the above mentioned municipalities. The Municipal
Water and Wastewater Project will introduce Private Sector Participation (PSP) into Albania's water sector in the
form of a management/lease contract. The proposed Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project will bridge the
gap between the present situation and the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project with the taking over of the
private operator in one or two years. The project will rehabilitate components of the water supply systems which
are prone to failure and/or which are causing extremely high operation costs or health risk due to their state of
disrepair.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
A final decision about the key performance indicators will only be made after the initial work of the
consultants proves that reliable measurement of these indicators is possible or can be introduced during the
project. However, it is anticipated that the following key indicators will be used to measure outcome and
impact of this project.
1. The portion of samples in the network complying with Albanian standards for residual chlorine and for
coliforns.
2. The quantity of water supplied to customer, which at present are getting insufficient quantities of water
(less than 80 I/c*d) or no water at all, to meet the minimum consumption standard of (80 I/c*d). Due to
the low level of metering, it might be required to install randomnly some meters to estimate this indicator.
3. The reduction in electricity consumption in total and in kWh/m3 produced.
4. The impact on water losses in the parts of the network included in this project.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 18161                   Date of latest CAS discussion: 08/07/98
The project is not included in the CAS which was presented to the Board for discussion on July 1998, as
the need for this project became only apparent when a large influx of refugees during the Kosovo Crisis put
an additional strain on the water supply system. Therefore, the project was only added subsequently to the
Albania lending program. The project will be reflected in the CAS Progress Report which is scheduled to
be presented to the Board on March 21, 2000 and which will incorporate the adjustments made to the
Albania program in response to the Kosovo Crisis and taking into account the important regional
developments in Southeast Europe, such as the Stability Pact. The CAS Progress Report will emphasize
poverty alleviation and social cohesion as the underlying condition to assure sustainable development in
Albania within a stable Southeast European region. Access for Albania's population to safe drinking water
is an important element cf this poverty alleviation strategy. Water sector interventions already figured
prominently in the CAS presented in July 1998 to the Board, where water sector policy reforms and
- 2-



investments were included in one of the three priority clusters. Important sector reforms outlined in this
CAS were the transfer of asset ownership to districts and municipalities, corporatization of water
companies, and privatization or management contracts for the water companies. Despite the short-term
emergency nature of this project, it is designed to facilitate the overall medium-term reform strategy
outlined for the water sector, as discussed in Section B.2 of this document.
The project will directly support one of the projects discussed in the CAS, the Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project, and is regarded as a clear forerunner of this project. This linkage becomes evident not
only by the nature of the project, but also by the requirement of a Policy Letter from the GoA by
negotiation, accepting the elements of the reform to be implemented in the medium term with the following
operation, once the emergency project is under implementation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Water and sanitation infrastructure in Albania is in dire condition. Even though around 80 percent of
Albania's urban population has access to a piped water distribution network, the level of service is very
poor. The following table shows the number of hours per day of water supply for cities in Albania. In
addition, drinking water quality is often compromised by lack of adequate treatment and disinfecting
facilities and supply of chemicals. Failure of components of these stressed systems is expected.
Table 1
Hours per Day of Water Supply for Cities
|lnhabitants         IHours of Service per Day
Cities participating in preparation of Municipal Water Supply and Sewerage Project
DURRES                                             220,000                       2-6
FIER                                                93,000                       2-3
LEZHE                                               22,000                       24
SARANDA                                             25,000                       1-2
Other Cities
ELBASAN                                            120,000                       3-4
GJIROKASTER                                         33,000                       1-2
KORCE                                               80,000                       2-4
KUKES                                               24,000                       24
SHKODER                                            100,000                       3-4
TIRANE                                             500,000                       4-6
VLORE                                              110,000                       34
The state of disrepair of the water and sewerage systems in Albania has become even more apparent during
the recent refugee crisis. While supply capacities are generally adequate, lack of system maintenance and
repairs, poor quality of construction and materials, and lack of metering and operational controls have
resulted in excessive water losses, estimated to be greater than 50% in all cities. As a result, water supply
service is intermittent with most urban areas receiving less than 4 hours of service per day. However, the
average quantity of water delivered per customer is in most cities still sufficient, with the exception of
Durres city, where in average only 55 lIc*d are provided. These average figures are hiding the fact, that an
unknown number of customers are getting less water or no water at all (reliable data are not available at
present). Service coverage and quality are falling as a result of rapid urban migration, insufficient
resources for operation, maintenance and new investments, and inadequate incentives for sector agencies to
improve services.
-3-



The problem with Albania's rapidly disintegrating water and sanitation systems is not only the inadequate
service it provides for the Albanian people, it also causes high operation costs which have to be subsidized
by the Central Government. The neglected maintenance accelerates the decay of the water and sanitation
systems and is thereby increasing the need for new investment which is putting additional financial burden
on the Government.
The supply of drinking water is the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works, Territory Adjustment
and Tourism (MoPW). Water supply is basically organized by district and each district usually has its
own water supply enterprise. These enterprises are assisted technically by the MoPW through its
Directorate General of Water, which also finances infrastructure investments. The management
organization of sewerage systems is similar to that of water supply systems, although sewerage
departments are normally smaller and often linked with other municipal services. In a few cities the water
supply and sewerage departments have been merged into one enterprise. Organizations in charge of water
and sewerage have very low productivity (staff levels are about five times larger than those of well-run
utilities in developing countries, and pipe breaks per kilometer of network are about 10 times larger).
Operational revenues are grossly insufficient to cover operating costs due to very low tariffs to pay for
water services, low levels of revenue collection, insufficient metering, and low government budget transfers
to cover for wastewater services, as there are no specific wastewater rates.
The causes that brought the water and wastewater systems to the current state of disarray cannot be solved
through the implementation of an emergency operation designed to support key investments of small scale
intended to prevent the collapse of the systems, improve the quality of service and reduce the operation
cost. In addition, the investments made through the emergency project will not be sustainable if a broad
sector reform is not decisively implemented. The Bank strategy, discussed and agreed with the
Government, involves a two-tier approach that focuses in the very short-term (no more than 2 years) on
urgent repairs to the systems, but continues in parallel with the preparation of a regular investment
operation that will support sector reforms. Specifically, the two tier approach to be further refined during
project preparation would include:
Short-term priority investment program
*   Urgent rehat ilitation works and interventions aimed at improving the basic water services
(quality and quantity), avoiding the collapse of the system, and reducing operation costs; and
* Technical support for basic improvement in the operation of the water companies.
Medium-term development and investment programs
* Rehabilitation of existing water and wastewater infrastructure, including investments in
expansion of the wastewater collection and treatment systems and expansions of the water
supply systems to new population migrating to urban centers;
* Corporatization of water and wastewater utilities under an organizational scheme independent
of city or central government and with adequate authority, under clear tariff rules, to make
operational and investment decisions;
- 4 -



*   Commercialization and cost recovery in order to achieve, through operational revenues,
coverage of at least all operating costs including adequate maintenance and debt service
obligations within a bound timeframe;
*   Change in the role of central government to policy and regulatory functions including
allocation of external resources; and
*   Increased participation of the private sector in the management of services.
The mentioned reforms of the medium-term development and investment program have been discussed and
agreed with the Government as part of the preparation of the Municipal Water Supply Project. This
Project envisions the participation of the private sector in the management of the water and wastewater
services in the cities of Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would address the short-term priority program framed within the overall sector strategy
presented in the previous section. By keeping this perspective and a strict short timeframe the project
would be able to bring the benefits urgently needed to improve the basic water services (quality and
quantity), avoid the collapse of the system; and reduce operation costs. The longer term perspective would
ensure that the investments support the first steps towards overall improvement of the sector.
It has been discussed to postpone the project until the private operator takes over (in 1-2 years), but it was
disapproved of because it would mean (i) an increased health risk, (ii) economic loss due to higher
operation costs and higher pace of deterioration and subsequently increase in investment needs, (iii) higher
risk of failure of key network components, and (iv) more people with insufficient quantities of water supply
for a longer time. Project components were carefully selected based on the criteria that their benefits
remain if a successful private operator is in place. Therefore, in addition to the above mentioned benefits,
the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project will facilitate the Private Sector Participation by making
up-front improvements (and increase the knowledge about the system), and thereby reduce the risk and the
costs for the private operator.
The main strategic choices of the project include:
*   The project will only include the four cities which are part of the Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project which includes Private Sector Participation. This is regarded to be the
only way to assure sustainability of the planned interventions;
*   Focus on water supply and exclude investments in wastewater services. Investments in
wastewater services deemed not to be justifiable on a basic of health risks or economic
benefits,
*   Short period of implementation to reflect the emergency nature of the project and to avoid
undermining the medium-term reforms needed by the sector; and
*   A Policy Letter would be required from the Government to demonstrate its commitment to the
medium-term strategy and reforms for the sector;
- 5 -



*   Set up implementation, procurement and financial management arrangements aimed at rapid
and effective execution while ensuring due diligence, transparency, and corruption prevention.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Table 2: Project Components and Costs
Como_ llAl~~~Inictive   Lak    f
l.Durres -Wells, pumping station                       2.64      18.0       1.64      16.4
2.Durres- Improv. transmission main                    0.10       0.7       0.07       0.7
3.Durres Villages - Feasibility Study                  0.62       4.2       0.62       6.2
4.Fier - Well field                                    0.86       5.9       0.53       5.3
5.Fier - Transmission main                             1.20       8.2       0.75       7.5
6.Lezhe - Dist. main replacernent                      0.14        1.0      0.08       0.8
7.Lezhe-Wells & Pumrpiag stations                      2.01       13.7      1.25      12.5
8.Saranda - Navarice Spring                            0.32       2.2       0.20       2.0
9.All Cities:                                          1.10       7.5       0.68       6.8
a) Repair - Total: $0.44/2.7%
IDA: ;S0.25/2.5%
b) Oper.Enhanc.- Total: $0.70/4.8%
IDA: $0.43/4.3%
10.Consultant Services                                 1.77      12.1       1.77      17.7
(excluding feasibility study)
11. All cities - PIU                                   0.21       1.4      0.13        1.3
12. Unallocated                                        3.67      25.1      2.28       22.8
Tota]l Project Costs                  14.64      100.0     10.00     100.0
Total Finarcing Required                    14.64     100.0     10.00      100.0
Indicate costs including taxes, duties and contingencies. Taxes and duties amount to US$3.53 mnillion
(24% of total cost).
Project costs include 20%Mi taxes (VAT) and 10% duties of all imported materials. The Bank will finance
90% of the costs excluding taxes and duties. The Government of Albania will finance 10% of the costs
and taxes and duties. Taxes and duties are 24% of the total project costs.
The project aims to implement inmmediately the rehabilitation of key components of the water systems in an
effective manner. It is envisioned that the following components would be included:
-6 -



*   Water supply: (i) supply and installation of chlorinators (supply and distribution of chemicals is
secured by Government & NGOs); (ii) supply of pipes, fittings, materials, and spare parts, and
contracts for critical on-site repairs of visible leaks in the water distribution network and/or use of
personnel from water companies that have demonstrated sufficient resources to implement these
repairs; (iii) repairs or replacement of pipes, storage reservoirs, pumping stations, and wells to increase
delivery of water and/or reduce 0 & M costs; (iv) provision of new wells for Durres; (v) conducting a
small operation enhancement program with an investment fund; (vi) conducting a small pilot program
to define the most appropriate payment and waste reduction mechanism for the villages connected to
the Durres transmission main (these results would be used in the Municipal Water and Wastewater
Project; the costs for this pilot will be covered by Social Compact Funds and minor technical
intervention out of the investment fund included in the enhancement program); and (vii) conducting a
feasibility study including cost/benefits analysis for the water supply in the villages which are close to
the Durres transmission main (This would enable investment under the following Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project or by other donors like e.g. ECHO).
*   Project management and implementation support: (i) additional resources to the Durres Water Supply
PIU for implementation of this emergency project; and (ii) contract of a Project Management Support
Team (PMST) with engineering and procurement specialists to support the PIU.
Table 2 presents a list of components identified. The identification was based on technical information
collected by a technical specialist visiting the cities, technical assessments and feasibility studies
prepared with the support of various donor agencies, and additional requests from the participating
cities. However, some of the components and activities of the program may be subject to change when
the Project Management Support Team completes the initial assessment during project implementation.
At this point of project preparation it is envisioned that in order for a subproject to be eligible for financing
by the Project, it must comply with all of the following criteria: (i) investments are located within the areas
of service of the water companies of the cities selected for the project; (ii) investments are aimed at
improving the provision of drinking water service, either in terms of quality or quantity; (iii) investrnents
can be procured and implemented within the short timeframe of the project; (iv) investments do not
contradict the medium and long-term rehabilitation strategy of the water and sewerage infrastructure; and
(v) investments will not cause significant negative environmental impacts or resettlement. Additionally, all
interventions which are not reducing an imminent health risk or the risk of complete system failure, will
have to show a NPV of at least 10 percent. Also, to the extent possible, the investment will integrate labor
intensive technologies in the implementation to promote employment.
The criteria for assigning priorities, which would be applied sequentially, are as follows: (i) critical
deficiency in water quantity; (ii) deficiency in water quality to a level that constitutes a severe threat to
public health; and (iii) reduction in operation cost.
The outputs of the project would be:
(a) improving the water quality by installation of chlorination equipment;
(b) increasing the quantity of water supplied to the customers which at present receive insufficient
quantities of water or no water at all, by decreasing leakage and installing additional supply
capacity where economically justified;
- 7 -



(c) decreasing the high electricity consumption/cost by replacing pumps where economically justified;
(d) decreasing the risk of complete failure of the water supply by well targeted investment in critical
points of the network; and
(e) reducing the accelerated pace of deterioration through quick intervention by small scale physical
irnprovement and changes in operations and thereby prevent unnecessary investment losses until
the private operat:or is in place.
To achieve rapid improvements in the water supply services, the components "Operation Enhancement
Program" and "Repair of visible leaks" will start immediately after the PMST is in place. This will be
possible because no time consuming design is required and the procurement methods allow quick
action.
-8-



Table 3 - Estimated Benefits of Project Components
(Excludes Duties and Taxes)
Cost
No Components       Description of Components   Benefits                           Estimate
_ _____________                                                                US$  (m)
I  Durres - Wells,    Construction of 7 new wells in  Due to the new pumps in the wells and  2.64
pumping station   Fushe Kuqe to replace the  in the pumping station, it is estimated
and pressure break existing ones. The existing    that 1,7 mission kWh/year can be saved
tank.            ones are getting filled with sand (equals $75,000/year). The new
and it is impossible to replace  collectors will allow repair and
the pumps over 30 years old    maintenance of the suction tanks
without drilling new wells.  without interrupting the supply to
Replacing pumps in the wells   Durres for about 30 days. The leakage
and in the pumping station.    at the break pressure tank is destroying
Replace and rearrange      the tank. Without this tank the entire
collection to the suction tanks. water supply to Durres and Kavajo
Replace the existing break  would be stopped.
pressure tank.
2  Durres -         Construction of a valve     Provision of means for controlling the  0.10
Transmission Main chamber on each of the 20  quantities of water supplied to
Improvements    connections to the 700 mm dia  communities located adjacent to the
transmission main from the    transmission main. The estimated
source of water to the Durres  saving in waste and leakage of water is
city service reservoir. The valve 7,300 cu m / day, equivalent to a 25 %
chambers would be secure    increase in the water reaching service
structures with locking covers  reservoir No. 4, which supplies Durres
and would house a meter and a city and Kavaje.
control valve for each
connection.
3  Durres - Rural    Examination of alternative  An estimated 55% (33,275 cu m / day) 0.62
Area, Feasibility   measures to provide a    of water produced at the main source of
Study            controlled water supply service supply for Durres is supplied directly
to rural areas and to      from the transmission main to rural
substantially reduce leakage,   communities, estimated population
waste and misuse of water.    90,000. This is equivalent to 420 lcd.
The proposed study would identify
alternatives for the reduction of this
quantity to approx. 40% of the present
figure, thus enable investment saving
some 20,000 cu m /day for distribution
to water short areas in Durres city.
These 20,000 m3/d equivalent to a 71
% increase in the water reaching service
reservoir No. 4, which supplies Durres
city and Kavaje.
g9-



4  Fier- Well Field   Security fencing for each of the Reduction of the risk of contamnination  0.86
Upgrade          nine operating wells to reduce  through uncontrolled access by the
the risk of contamination by the public and by domestic animals.
public and by domestic animals. Analyses program to provide an early
Elstablishment of a water  warning of contamination of the source.
sampling program for the wells Replacement of pumps and mechanical
and the nearby Vjoses river to  and electrical equipment. Without this
provide a warning of       investment, it can be assumed that one
contamination from river bome of the over 30 year old pumps will fail
oil wastes.                every year, which would reduce the
Rehabilitation of well heads,   supply by 1O% per year. The more
replacement of the existing  efficient pumping equipment also
obsolete pumping and electrical provides estimated cost reductions of
equipment.                 US$52,000 per year in energy.
5   Fier - Distribution The proposed works would    It is estimated that repair of the mains   1.20
Mains            include replacement of parts of would reduce leakage by more than
three distribution feeder  660,000 cu m / year. The estimated
mains.Two mains are DN     revenue from the sale of this water to a
500mm and one is DN 250 mm. combination of industrial and domestic
'The mains are 3kmn long. The   consumers is estimated at US$35,000
mnains convey water from the   per year, equivalent of 4% of total
Fier distribution service  revenues. Water saved would be
reservoir to a central valve  diverted to parts of the city with water
chamber.                   shortage. In addition, the repairs would
PIarts of these mains that are   avoid frequent flooding of street and
severely deteriorated would be  houses, and service interruption due to
replaced. The mains were   repair of bursts.
constructed more than 40 years
ago. They are fabricated from
thin wall, spirally wound steel
pipes, which have a relatively
short life. Extensive leakage is
occurring from parts of the
mrnains.
- 10-



6  Lezhe- Distribution The proposed works would    Leakage from the disused mill based on 0.14
Main replacement include replacement of a    crude measurements is estimated at 21
distribution main (610 m of DN IVs (3.2 million cu m / year). The
100 mm and 300m of DN 80   existing main is also deteriorated and
mm) and disconnection of a    the water supply to the two communities
supply main to a disused paper is inadequate.
mill. A large paper mill    The proposed works would provide an
discontinued its operations in  improved water supply to the two
1991 and is now abandoned.   communities and the reduction of water
The water supply to the paper  losses would provide about US$20,000
mill forms part of a ring main, per year in revenue from water sales,
which also supplies the     equivalent to 5 % of total revenues.
communities of Quendra and
Zemra e Katundit. The
configuration of the system
prevents disconnection of the
supply to the paper mill without
also disconnecting the supply to
the two communities.
7  Lezhe-Wells and   Lezhe and the surrounding  The pumping stations are equipped with 2.01
Pumping Stations  areas depend on water from the obsolete equipment of Chinese origin,
Barbulloja well field. The three installed in the late 1960s or early
operating pumping stations at  1970s. There is a serious risk of
the well field are no longer  complete failure of vital parts of the
reliable and would be       equipment for which replacement parts
rehabilitated, including the  are not available. The proposed works
replacement of mechanical and would secure the water supply of Lezhe.
electrical equipment.       Replacement of the low efficiency
equipment result in an energy reduction
of between 15 and 20% with an annual
cost saving of US$27,000 per year,
________________    _________________________    equivalent to  7%   of total O&M    cost.
- 11 -



8  Saranda-Navarice  Replacement of the gravity  The proposed works would reduce  0.32
Spring           transmission main, 2,400 m of leakage and provide a reliable and
DN 273*7 from Navarice     controlled water supply to the villages.
spring to the Saranda      Water conserved in this way is
distribution reservoir.    estimated to be 3,770 cu m per day and
Replacement of feeder mains to would form part of the supply to
villages, 350 m DN80,      Saranda town. Due to the fact that
including valves, valve    Navarice Spring is a gravity system and
chambers, bulk meters and    the water will substitute water which
chlorination facility; and  has to be pumped to the city, savings in
security fencing to protect the  operation costs are estimated to be
spring from contamination.    US$40,000/year, equivalent to 18% of
'Leakage from the transmission  annual revenues.
main is now extensive. The
main was constructed in 1978
1o serve nine villages with an
aggregate present population of
about 6,600. The yield of the
spring varies seasonally from
:30-70 I/s.
9  All Cities - Repair The repair of visible leaks  The repair of leakage in distribution    0.40
of Visible Leakage. primarily in distribution mains. systems in four towns would generate a
This would be implemented in  revenue of US$ 0.44 million per year at
each of the four towns under   present day revenues and assuming 60%
one works contract         collection of billing.
10 Consultants'     A consultant company with                                      1.77
services excluding  international experience will
the Feasibility  carry out the final design and
Study            supervision, and assist the PIU
in project management
(procurement, financial
_management).
11 All Cities       A consultant with international The benefits can not be forecast in  0.70
Operation        experience in network analysis  advance, but previous experience under
Enhancement      Emd operation will make basic  the ongoing Durres Water Supply
mneasurements and analysis of  Project showed savings of 5,000
the networks and recommend   m3/day in Durres due to changes in
operation enhancement.     operation, which is 18 % of the water
reaching service reservoir No. 4, which
supplies Durres city and Kavaje.
12 All Cities - PIU    ___                                                        0.21
13 Unallocated      ___                                                           3.67
Total Project Cost                                                             14.64
1/ Including duties and taKes, and contingencies.
- 12-



In the event of cost overruns, lower priority sub-projects would be deleted. This deletion is possible
because the project would be composed of independent components that can be included or excluded to
meet the available financing. If the urgent needs identified in the cities participating in the project within
the first 12 months of project implementation do not require the entire funds allocated to the project, the
remaining funds will be canceled. All funds not committed to specific contracts after 18 months of project
implementation would be canceled from the credit.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As this project is of an emergency nature, it does not attempt to address long-term economic, sectoral, or
institutional problems and does not include any conditionality linked to mnacro-economic or sectoral
policies. The project would provide institutional support focused primarily on short-term strengthening of
the PIU and the counterpart teams in the water companies to perform its tasks during the life of the project.
In order to ensure that the reform process of the sector is not derailed by this emergency project, but
continues its progress through government actions as well as preparation and implementation of the
Municipal Water Supply and Sewerage Project, the GOA has signed a Policy Letter. Signature of this
Policy Letter would be a condition of negotiations. This Policy Letter contains the following main elements
of reform to which the GOA is committed:
i) Role of Central Goverunment: The functions associated with management of water resources and
related aspects including water quality and regulation of water supply and wastewater services
(e.g. service standards, benchmarking competition and control of undesirable monopoly behavior)
should be retained and streamlined at the central government level. In addition, the government
should play a leading role in the allocation of external resources in support of clear sector
development goals;
ii) Role of Local Governments: Responsibility for investment and operational decision-making of
water and wastewater services should given to local govermments. To benefit from economies of
scale, particularly in operations, water and wastewater services should merge, and small local
governments (say less than 100,000 population) should be given the incentives to associate into
regional utilities;
iii) Corporatization and Cost Recovery: Water and wastewater services should be operated under an
organizational scheme independent of city or central government and with adequate authority,
under clear tariff rules, to make operational and investment decisions to meet agreed development
goals with its shareholders. These corporations should operate on a conmmercial basis. That is,
operational revenues should be adequate to cover at least all operating costs including adequate
maintenance and debt service obligations. Towards this end there is the need to introduce
wastewater tariffs and gradually adjust upward water rates; at the same time it is vital to improve
productivity of operations and investments to avoid passing inefficiencies to customers;
iv) Private sector participation: As a rapid way to improve productivity of operations and introduce
service quality gains the private sector should be allowed to participate competitively for the sector
market under clear incentives. Initially this participation is likely to be limited to management/lease
contracts. However, as commercialization objectives take hold, the private sector is also likely to
invest under long-term concession arrangements or under BOOT/BOO type of contracts for
- 13 -



specific investmnents such as wastewater treatment plants;
v) Water conservation: Most water uses should be metered and all consumption adequately priced to
provide water and wastewater services in a sufficient and cost effective way.
An action plan for imnplementation of these reforms is under discussion with the Government. However, a
firm decision on the corporatization of services in the cities of Durres, Fier, Lezhe and Saranda needs to be
made and is a priority action. Also, the cost recovery strategy for services in these cities to make the
proposed Management Contract a viable option is also a priority.
The project will place a strong emphasis on key aspects of operation and maintenance of the water supply
systems, such as proper functioning of disinfection systems to improve water quality, prompt detection and
repair of pipe breaks to reduce water losses, installation of pumps working with higher efficiency to reduce
operation costs, installation of lockable valves etc. to improve distribution of water between different users
(mainly Durres city and villages), and other operational improvements. By focusing on operational
improvements rather than large rehabilitation works, the project will counteract the belief in water
companies that external funding for replacement of facilities is preferable to set up effective programs of
maintenance and repair.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of this project are bringing more water of improved quality to people who have insufficient
quantity and/or quality and to reduce operation costs. Only part of the customers will benefit from
improved quantity and quality, but all customers will benefit from savings in operation costs. Details about
the benefits and the target population are presented in table 3 "Estimated benefits of project components" in
chapter C. 1 "Project components".
To increase the hours of water supply has not been regarded as an objective, if people are obtaining already
a sufficient quantity of vwater (> 80 Vc*d) during the few hours of existing water supply. In that case
additional hours of water supply would only increase wastage, misuse and leakage, and consequently
operation costs, without generating additional revenues, because in general consumption is not metered.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Implementation. In order to facilitate project start-up, the PIU currently implementing the Durres
Water Supply Rehabilitation Project will be strengthened to manage this emergency project and renamed
the "World Bank Water IPIU". The PIU will be responsible for overall project management, coordination
and planning, including the preparation of the action plan, procurement of design, goods, civil works and
supervision, fnancial management and reporting. The PIU will report to and coordinate with the
Directorate of Water and Wastewater of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport. The PIU will
maintain close contact and frequent communication to ensure coordination with the municipal government
and water companies of all the cities participating in the project. Also, the PITU will coordinate, on aspects
directly related to the project, with the international Donor Community participating in the water sector in
Albania, including NGOs, to avoid costly overlaps.
The Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project PIU currently has the following professionals in its staff:
1 Director, engineer; 1 assistant engineer to support procurement activities and a full-time accountant in
charge of accounting and. disbursements. The PIU would be strengthened with the addition of an engineer
and a full-time accountant. The speed of implementation required to bring the expected benefits of the
project requires strong and specific expertise in coordination and organization of emergency projects. To
- 14-



provide the additional management capability needed to organize, supervise and control implementation of
the project, the PIU will be assisted by experienced professionals from a full service consulting firm with
strong experience in engineering, operation of water supply systems, and implementation of emergency
projects. These professionals will form a Project Management Support Team (PMST) that will provide
broad support to the PIU. The PIU with the support of the PMST, and in close coordination with
personnel from the water companies, would manage the assessment of the key components for urgent
improvement of the water supply systems; work scheduling; preparation of technical specifications and
designs; preparation of tender documents; procurement, negotiations and award of contracts; coordination
and supervision of the construction process; monitoring and reporting; and all fmancial and administrative
operations associated with the implementation of the project.
The core of the PMST will be constituted by qualified engineers specialized in water supply systems. The
core team will work closely with personnel from the water companies to implement the specific investment
components. The engineers would also prepare the bidding documents and assist in bid evaluation.
The core of the PMST will also include a procurement advisor and financial assistants. The procurement
advisor will have extensive experience in Bank-financed infrastructure projects. The financial assistants
will support the PIU to coordinate the financial aspects of the projects to ensure compliance with the Bank
FMS guidelines, including adequate financial management systems, accounting and financial reporting, and
auditing.
Additionally, the PIU and the PMST will prepare after two months into implementation a detailed
implementation plan. The proposed implementation plan will be reviewed and approved by the
Government and the Bank. During the following six months, the PIU will prepare monthly progress
reports, and quarterly progress reports thereafter which would include information on: (i) procurement; (ii)
progress in sub-project implementation; (iii) payments made to contractors; (iv) difficulties encountered
and proposed measures to overcome them; (v) updates of the performance indicators; (vi) updates of
project cost estimates, procurement plan and implementation schedule; and (vii) coordination activities with
donor agencies.
Financial Management. The project financial management system, including accounting, financial
reporting and auditing arrangements, would be established prior to the presentation of this proposed credit
to the World Bank Board of Directors (see Section G2.2 of PAD).
A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which documents the operation of the project financial management
system has been prepared. The PIP covers the following aspects of the project financial management
system: (i) internal procedures, financial and accounting policies; flow of funds; (ii) flow of funds (iii)
management of funds - accounting system and internal control mechanisms; (iv) Chart of Accounts; (v)
financial reporting (including formats of financial management reports); (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii)
budgeting; and (viii) organization and staffing for financial management functions.
Key actions which are in process, and which need to be completed are: (i) recruitment by the PIU of a
full-time accountant (already completed); (ii) introduction of the accountant to the Project financial
management issues by a Financial Management Specialist (FMS) and Project Officer at the World Bank
Office in Tirana (ongoing); (iii) appointment of a firm of Chartered Accountants as auditors for the project
(this is expected to be handled on a project portfolio-wide basis by the MoF); and (iv) completion of the
development of the financial management system, including computerization using an accounting software
package developed in Albania and already in use in other World Bank projects. The assessment of the
project financial management system will be carried out by Sandro Michiei (FMS in the World Bank
- 15-



Office in Tirana). The initial assessment of a progress in setting up project financial management system
as carried out by negotiations held in mid-December 1999. This final assessment of project financial
management system is expected to be completed by end January 2000, and would be a condition for Board
Presentation, planned for February 24, 2000.
Accounting Information. The PIU, with responsibility for orderly and efficient recording and safeguarding
of the project assets and resources would: (a) ensure accountability for project funds; (b) maintain records
of the sources of funds (IDA/GOA) and the relevant accounts on a timely basis; (c) maintain internal
controls to ensure that financial records are reliable, complete and provided on a timely basis; (d) report on
the use of funds (IDA, GOA); (e) facilitate verification of these reports by independent auditors; and (f)
provide information, as required, to the Bank. Project accounts would be maintained by the PIU separately
from any other existing accounts.
Disbursements and Financial Reporting. The PIU will manage a Special Account in US Dollars in
Albania National Bank. Disbursements from the IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional
system (reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and direct
payments). During the first year of project implementation, the PIU would submit to the Bank a quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs) following Cash Model format agreed to IDA. The Report would
include: (a) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds Report by project categories of expenditures, showing
the IDA credit and the Government of Albania, separately in currency as determined by project design; (b)
Sunmnary of Expenditures by project components, for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date; (c)
Summary of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) by individual application reference number and amount;
(d) Special Account Statement providing reconciliation of amounts in the Special Account; and (e)
Expenditures Report by disbursement category during the current quarter and next quarter. At the
mid-term review a conversion to the new procedures (i.e., based on Project Management Reports - PMRs)
will be considered. The target date for the mid-term review is one year after expected project start date.
Financial Audit. PIU would be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing to the Bank, within 6
months after the end of each fiscal year the financial audits of the Project that are acceptable to the Bank.
The PIU would have the r equired Financial Statements for each year audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank in accordance with standards that are acceptable to the Bank (see Section G2 of
PAD). The auditor would be appointed in sufficient time to carry out its responsibilities, including: (a) a
review of the financial management systems at the beginning of project implementation; and (b) periodic
reviews of the project financial management systems thereafter.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. Project monitoring would be the responsibility of the PIU and
the MoPW. The PIU and MoPW would furnish the Bank with reports on a regular basis including: (i)
semi-annual progress and project financial management reports; (ii) interim unaudited statements of project
accounts; and (iii) additional information that the Bank may request from time to time.
Performance monitoring and evaluation. The performance monitoring and evaluation would be
undertaken by the Bank to ensure close monitoring of the achievements of project objectives during
implementation. Key peribormance indicators proposed for monitoring can be found in Annex 1. A
mid-term evaluation would be prepared during the two and a half years of the project. Lessons learned for
implementation and the activities financed under the project would be captured in a synthesis report
prepared by the borrower with the assistance of the PIU.
- 16-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative: Not carrying out a Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project and focus on the preparation
of the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project with participation of the private sector.
Reasons for rejection: The Municipal Water and Wastewater Project will not be ready for
implementation before spring 2001. The water and wastewater system in the selected cities is in dire
condition and deteriorating at a high pace. Without any immediate action of international donors, the risk
of failure of system comnponents is extremely high. The failure would not only be an extreme inconvenience
for the people, it would also be a severe health risk for a huge number of people and the economic costs
(decline in productivity, additional cost for alternative water supply and medical treatment) could be
substantial. As already discussed in section B 3 of this PAD, the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation
Project is regarded to be of utmost importance to bridge the gap until the Municipal Water and Wastewater
Project can mediate the situation. Without this project, there would be (i) an increased health risk, (ii)
economic losses due to higher operation costs and higher pace of deterioration and a subsequent increase in
investment needs, (iii) higher risk of failure of key network components, and (iv) more people with
insufficient quantities of water supply for a significant longer time.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Table 4:
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue          |          Project                 (PSR) Ratings
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___  ._____ _..    (Bank!flnanced  projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Water and sanitation              US$8.4 MM Durres Water       Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory
Supply Rehabilitation Project
US$5 MM Supplemental Credit Presentation to
to Community Works Project  the Board 6/99
Municipal Water Supply         Under
Project                      preparation
Refugee support                   Support Program to Areas of
Albania Hosting Refugees from
Kosovo (US$1 MM PCF Grant
signed August 4, 1998)
Supplernental PCF Grant
signed April 6, 1999
Fiscal impacts of refugee crisis  US$45MM equiv. Structural
Adjustment Credit
US$30 MM equiv. Public
Expenditure Support Credit
Other development agencies
- 17-



Gernany KfW                        Grants and soft loans for the
rehabilitation of water and
sewerage systems of Kavaja,
Kukes, Has, Korca, Kruja and
Pogradec and Rrogozhina.
Also under appraisal for
possible future funding are:
Kushnje, Berat, Elbasan and
Gjirokaster: US$ 100 rmillion
since 1992.
Italy                              60 billion lira credit for Tirana
water supply.
EU Phare Program                   Design and emergency works
for Tirana, Lezhe, Gjirokaster,
Saranada, Fier and Vlora.
Austria                            Feasibility studies for Lezhe,
Shengjin and Shkoder.
ECHO                               Small scale projects in the
periphery of Tirana.
Switzerland                        Detailed designs for Pogradec.
JICA-JSF                            Feasibility studies for Tirana'
wastewater and Fier and
Saranda water and sewerage.
Islamic Bank                       Water supply for rural areas.
USAID                              TA for various laws in water
sector.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Although the physical imiplementation of the ongoing water project is highly successful, the foreseen
improvements regarding the financial performance could not been achieved. Based on this experience the
Bank reshaped the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project which now includes the introduction of
private sector participation. This is regarded to be the only way to overcome the institutional problems the
water sector in Albania is currently facing.
3. Lessons learned and r eflected in the project design:
Bank-wide experience shows that successful implementation of projects of emergency nature requires: (i) a
technically and operationally sound rapid assessment of needs with a well-defined priority strategy and
objectives; (ii) simplicity in design and implementation arrangements; (iii) willingness and flexibility to
assist water companies with project preparation; (iv) simplicity in the procurement and disbursement
procedures for efficient and rapid component implementation; (v) clear operational procedures to guide
project targeting and component selection; (vi) need for strong supervision and financial controls at both
PIU and component levels; (vii) institutional autonomy and freedom from political interference to allow
selection and implementation of components quickly and transparently; (viii) involvement of local entities in
the selection of components but using the established criteria to avoid emphasis on new construction rather
than operational improvements, faster repairs, and better infrastructure maintenance actions; and (ix)
emergency components should pave the way for dealing with longer-term concerns about sector reform.
- 18-



Implementation experience in civil works in Albania has shown that there should be major emphasis on
construction quality control.
Emergency operations usually demand that borrowers demonstrate a very high level of organizational and
implementation skills at a time when the system is at its most vulnerable point, with productive assets
damaged and policy-makers, technical staff and others occupied with several competing demands. Thus, it
is important to keep projects simple and to focus on key areas of need, doing as much up-front preparatory
work as possible, and leaving longer-term reform measures for normal sector operations.
As rapid preparation is essential for emergency projects to have the needed impact, and normal Bank
guidelines and procurement procedures could cause delays in project execution, it is necessary to design
flexible and streamlined implementation and execution arrangements, while seeking to ensure that overall
concerns about due diligence, transparency, and corruption prevention are addressed.
A lesson learned from the ongoing Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project is that the active
participation of the local governments/utilities is crucial for the successful implementation of water projects
in Albania. Therefore consultations with local utilities have been intensified during the preparation of the
Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project. Under the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project it is
foreseen to establish one multi-city utility for all four cities and transfer most of the responsibilities to the
local governments.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The GoA is aware that to achieve sustainable sector development, reforms to provide the incentives needed
for efficient service delivery need to be introduced. Consequently the GoA has agreed with the project
preparation mission on the main elements of reform mentioned in the Policy Letter to be implemented under
the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project. (Section C2).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has had an active and significant portfolio in Albania, with over 300 million dollars of ongoing
or planned investments, and has been a primary player in supporting the reform efforts of the Government.
The Bank's leadership role in the donor community was further reinforced by its management of the crisis
that followed the collapse of the pyramid schemes in 1997. In response to the Kosovo conflict, the Bank
has recently approved a US$45 million equivalent for a Structural Adjustment Credit and a US$30 million
equivalent Public Expenditure Support Credit.
In the water sector, the Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation Project is under implementation with support
from IDA. Currently IDA is preparing the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project to assist the
Government in rehabilitating water and sewerage systems and introducing private management in four
cities. The Bank is supporting through these projects a long-term reform of the water sector, in agreement
with the goals stated in the CAS.
Although not well suited to respond to urgent needs, the Bank does have a strong relationship with the
Government and experience in responding to the urban infrastructure challenges facing Albania, gained
through its financing of projects in the water, urban and transport sectors. This relationship and experience
will support its efforts in the design and implementation of interventions that address both the urgent needs
emerging from the refugee crisis and the infrastructure needs thatare present throughout the country.
Project implementation will require intensive Bank involvement during preparation and the first few months
- 19-



of implementation, and will require a high degree of flexibility to be able to adapt to rapidly changing
circumstances. Implementation progress will be formally evaluated approximately six months after
effectiveness, when the project implementation should be well advanced. The Bank's Resident Mission in
Tirana will be closely involved during project preparation and implementation to speed all decisions and
prevent and mitigate delay factors.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = for each component, at least 10 %
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The draft economic analysis for the project components has been carried out based on the additional
information collected in Albania in July (Annex 4).
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
In the past the water sector in Albania has made significant progress by: (i) removing the cap of tariffs in
1998 and transferring the responsibility for tariff settings from the Government to the districts and the
water companies/departmrents; and (ii) the Water Regulatory Commnission was established to monitor and
regulate water tariffs of both private and public water works companies. However, due to the emergency
nature of the project, the Issues of cost recovery and tariff policies will only be addressed in the following
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project, which will include a plan to achieve cost recovery gradually by
all project participating mtunicipalities. The Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project will only assess
an appropriate paynment mechanism for the villages near the Durres transmission main by carrying out a
pilot project (see section E, 5).
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact has been calculated as part of the economic analysis and is attached in Annex 4.
3. Technical:
The emergency nature of the project requires that solutions be implemented within a very short time frame
to reach the benefits intended. However, all project components will be in line with optimal long-term
solutions. The brief engineering assessment to be performed by the PIU and the Project Management
Support Team will ensure that the components selected can be integrated into the longer-term rehabilitation
and improvement progran.
The problems in the four cities can only be solved by introducing adequate management including metering.
This is regarded to be the only way to reduce the present waste and misuse. For example, in some areas in
Lezhe which have 22 hours of water supply, people are receiving approximately 500 V/c*d, which is well
above the 80 lI/c*d regarded as sufficient. However, metering makes only sense when it includes meter
maintenance, adequate tariffs, billing and collection. At present, the water companies have a very weak
management. Consequenltly, the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project contemplates private sector
participation to introduce sound managerial practices.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
- 20-



b. Project management:
Due to the emergency nature and short implementation period of the project, institutional issues will only be
addressed in the following Municipal Water and Wastewater Project.
5. Social:
Survey-based inputs will not be sought during project preparation from individuals residing in the
municipalities as the project would focus on improving the water and sanitation services to the population
depending on pipe water supply systems and not on expanding the system to serve new areas. All project
components would be revised based on the demands received from water utilities and would be evaluated
by the PIU and the PMST.
Special attention will be given to villages that are legally or illegally connected to the Durres transmission
main that provides water to the city of Durres. The present situation is that the water company has
insufficient control over the water main and measurements show that approximately 55 % of the water
produced is supplied to the villages (420 I/c*d) and only 45 % reach the service reservoir for Durres city
(93 I/c*d). If the network losses are deducted, the net quantity available for consumption in Durres is only
56 li/c*d.
To fnd a solution to the above, the following would be done under the project: On one hand, a feasibility
study will define the long term technical solution for water supply in the villages (central or decentralized
supply) and, on the other hand, a pilot project in selected villages should assess strategies to improve
payments (e.g. community based), reduced waste and misuse of water for irrigation. The outcome of the
pilot project would be a recommended strategy for the Government and the private operator. To conduct
the pilot project, coordination between ECSIN and ECSSD (social assessment group, irrigation project)
has already started.
The project is likely to reduce poverty, although the project is not especially targeting the poor. An
assessment on poverty and household welfare conducted in Albania in 1996 shows that the poorest quintile
of households is three times less likely to have piped water supply than the wealthiest quintile of
households. It can therefore be assumed that the poor will benefit more from a project which provides
piped water supply. In addition, the improved economic activity as result of the project should increase
employment, and the reduction in operation and maintenance cost and increase in revenues through
additional water sales should reduce the need for the Government to subsidize the operation and
maintenance cost. The budget savings could be used for poverty alleviation. The project will not provide
documented and unambiguous information about its impact on poverty, but the following Municipal Water
and Wastewater Project should attempt to address this issue in the project preparation by providing for
social assessment specialists to monitor the project's impact on poverty alleviation during implementation.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: B
The project would finance repair and rehabilitation of components of water supply systems. No new
structure of significant size is envisaged to be constructed under the project. Given the nature of the
rehabilitation work to be financed under this project, the project has been classified as Environmental
Category "B". During project preparation, an environmental assessment and environmental management
plan were prepared by the environmental specialist of the project team. The detailed EMP has been
incorporated into the Project Implementation Plan.
The environmental assessment identified the following potential negative impacts of the project: (i)
- 21 -



inappropriate disposal of excavated materials, construction debris, and small quantities of hazardous
wastes related to construction activities (although no hazardous wastes have yet been identified and are
unlikely to occur); and (ii) environmental damage caused by contractors during construction activities.
Since most of the rehabilitation work will be done in properties and facilities owned by water companies or
are located in rights-of-way assigned to municipal infrastructure, the project will not entail any
resettlements and will cause no impacts to structures of cultural importance.
During project implementation, procedures will be introduced to ensure that potential negative impacts as a
result of the project are mitigated. For example, the bidding and contract documents for construction will
describe that the rehabilit:ation and construction of the structure or other related activities will be minimized
though good construction practices to prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage. These
requirements will be enforced by the supervisors during construction. Also, to avoid extraction of sand or
gravel from river beds, contract documents will require prior approval of the Engineer for the extraction of
sand and gravel for use in construction. Contractors' requests for approval will identify the location of
authorized sand and gravel quarries or borrow areas, and the quantities of materials to be extracted.
Groundwater extraction will also be monitored during project implementation. Water resources control,
under legislation dated 1996, is the responsibility of the National Water Council, Technical Secretariat of
the Ministry of Public Works and Transport. The Technical Secretariat operates in conjunction with the
National Hydrogeological Service. The construction of new wells for Durres would require the permission
of the National Water Council. Preliminary discussions with these Authorities have taken place and it
appears that permission to develop the proposed wells would not present a difficulty, because the existing
wells will be closed and the amount of water extracted will be unchanged. In conjunction with the well
development, test wells would first be constructed and would be test pumped for an extended period.
During this period, chemical and bacteriological analyses of water samples from the wells would be
evaluated to ensure that wvater quality standards are met. Supervision of this task would be the
responsibility of the PIU which would forward results to the World Bank.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
During project preparaticn, the Ministry of Public Works, the PIU of the Durres Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project and the water companies of the cities participating in the project have been and will
continue to be involved to define the project scope, assess emergency works, and prioritize actions. Section
E.5 discusses the pilot project in Durres which will include direct consultations with the population of the
included villages.
Donor coordination: Coordination under the present circumstances is critical. A number of donors have
been active in the sector and have mnade significant contributions, as illustrated in Section D.2 - Italian
Cooperation, KfW, EU Phare, Austria, USAID, ECHO, and Japan. In the past there has been both
informal and formal coordination among the long-term donors. Technical staffs have shared informiation
and made an effort to maintain cornunication. On a formal basis, there have been annual sector donor
meetings hosted by the Bank and EU Phare. For the past year, the EU Phare Project Coordination Unit in
the Ministry of Public Works has served as focal point for identifying the needs of the sector, making the
priority of the Government for the sector known to donors and keeping up to date on the activities of the
donors. In June 1999, a rneeting with all donors involved in the water sector took place. The World Bank
presented at the meeting the Bank's proposed strategy for sustainable sector development. The strategy
- 22-



presented was substantially agreed by all Donors represented and has been the base for the discussions of a
multi-sectoral donors meeting held in Brussels in July 1999. In addition, the strategy has been discussed
with the GoA during project preparation and will be the base for the preparation of the Policy Letter
(Section C2). Other conclusions and agreements reached between Donors include: (i) the emergency
situation faced by many of the water supply systems should be addressed without affecting the long-term
strategy for sustainable sector development; and (ii) a formal Donor Coordination Working Group
(DCWG) should be established with the secretariat assigned to the EU and to have monthly meetings in
Tirana to exchange all relevant information on sector programs and projects as well as to support the GoA
in the formulation and implementation of the sector strategy.
b. Other key stakeholders:
None.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project is only given if the implementation of the following Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project will be successful.
- 23 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating    Ri Risk Mlnimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Technical standards used. for civil works,  N
repairs and installations are not adequate.
Components identified and implemented       S         Accelerate the preparation of the Municipal
are not sufficient to bring noticeable                Water and Wastewater project to introduce PIP
improvements in water service.                        as soon as possible.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart financing is not available or   M         Request including the counterpart financing in
slow.                                                 national budget for the year 2000.
Delays occur in hiring additional           M         Bank supports preparation of TORs and
personnel for PIU or PMST.                            Procurement Specialist in Tirana provides
additional support.
Capacity of local construction industry is  M         Procurement of mainly one large ICB contract
not adequate to implement components.                 which can shift construction capacity between
the four cities.
Supply of goods to Albania suffers          N
delays.
Decisions by local and central government   M         Intensive communication between the Bank and
are slow and delay project                            local/control government supported by the field
implementation.                                       office.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 24 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
2.1 Conditions for Negotiation (have been fulfilled)
(a)    The Council of Ministers has to approve the policy letter mentioned in Section C2 of this PAD.
(b)    The Council of Ministers has to approve the preparation for the involvement of the private sector
in the management and operation of the water and wastewater services in the cities of Durres, Fier,
Lezhe and Saranda. The involvement of the private operator will be a key element of the
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project.
(c)    The Ministry of Public Works has to agree to the Plan of Action for the preparation of the
management contract under the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project.
(d)    The Ministry of Public Works has to agree (i) to have only one managemnent contract with a
Private Operator for the four cities under the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project and (ii) to
start immediately with the preparation for the establishment of an adequate multi-city utility.
(e)    The Govermment of Albania has to make available the project counterpart funds and expenses
related to taxes including VAT, which amount to approximately US$ 200,000 in the year 2000.
(f)    The initial assessment of progress in setting up a Project Financial Management System will be
done by negotiations by a Financial Management Specialist at the World Bank's office in Tirana.
2.2 Conditions for Board Presentation
The Project Financial Management system, including accounting, financial reporting and auditing
arrangements, have to be established and be acceptable to the Bank.
2.3 Disbursement Condition
(a)    The investments under components 1 to 8 (see table 2 of this PAD) will only be financed by the
Bank, if by the end of the year 2000 the contract for the private operator will be awarded.
(b)    The Borrower has to provide to the Bank, within six months after the end of each fiscal year the
financial audits of the Project that are acceptable to the Bank.
- 25-



H. Readiness for Imnplementation
E 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
D1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
C1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
21 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
The final assessment of the projects financial management system will be completed by end January 2000,
and would be a condition for Board Presentation, planned for February 24, 2000.
Andreas Rohde                     Walter A. Stottmann         a     Arntraud Hartmann           /
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country ManagerlDirector
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
0   ......         ~KEy Peiformance          
KI*ra_f~y of Objectives           In4lcator           Monitoring & Evluation    CrIMal ssumptlons
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Project is not directly    Municipal Water Supply and    *  Project preparation
addressed in CAS, but  Sewerage Project aimed at       reports.
the project is regarded  implementing reforms and   *  Implementation
as a forerunner of the   improvements to the water     Completion Report.
Municipal Water &     sector is designed and
Wastewater Project    approved by FY0 1.
which is discussed in the
CAS.
*  Project is designed as
part of a medium-term
strategy for water sector
in CAS.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improve water supply services   *  Number of people for  *  Regular progress        *  Project implementation
in Durres, Fier, Lezhe and      which the water supply     reports.                    does not reduce
Saranda                         improved from <801/c*d   *  Reports from               incentives to
to >801/c*d.               Supervision by Resident     municipalities to
*  Portion of samples         Mission.                    continue water sector
complying with WHO      *  Supervision Mission         reform.
standards for residual     reports.                 *  Government effectively
chlorine and coliforms    *  Implementation            adheres to goals and
*  Quantity of water          Completion Report.          actions in Policy Letter.
supplied to customer                                *  Delays in
which before the project                              implementation are
were getting insufficient                              minimum and
quantities of water (< 80                              emergency project does
I/c*d)                                                 not become a regular
*  Reduction in electricity                              investment operation.
consumption in total and
in kWh/m3 produced
*  Reduction in physical
water losses in parts of
network improved under
the project, and in total
and per m3/year and
project cost.
- 27 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Durres - Wells, pumping    1. Operational in accordance    *  Regular progress and  *  Adequate technical
station and break pressure  with Project Implementation     procurement reports        standards are used for
tank (constructed).        Plan                             prepared by PIU.           civil works repairs and
*  Regular reports from       installations.
ongoing supervision by    *  Components identified
Resident Mission.          and implemented are
*  Supervision mission        sufficient to bring
reports.                   noticeable
improvements in water
service.
2. Durres- Transmission Main 2. Operational in accordance
Improvements (carried out).  with Project Implementation
Plan
3. Durres - Rural Area:    3. Feasibility completed
Feasibility Study (carried out). satisfactory to the Bank
4. Fier - Well Field and   4. Operational in accordance
Pumping Station            with Project Implementation
improvements (carried out).  Plan
5. Fier - Well Field Upgrade   5. Operational in accordance
(carried out).             with Project Implementation
Plan
6. Fier - Distribution Mains   6. Operational in accordance
(replaced).                with Project Implementation
Plan
7. Lezhe - Distribution Main  7. Operational in accordance
(replaced).                with Project Implementation
Plan
8. Lezhe - Wells and Pumping 8. Operational in accordance
Station (rehabilitated)    with Project Implementation
Plan
9. Saranda - Navarice Spring  9. Operational in accordance
(rehabilitated)            with Project Implementation
Plan
- 28-



10. All cities - Repair of   10. After initial phase (6
Visible Leakage (carried out). months) all existing visible
leaks are repaired and for new
leaks the repair time is less
than 5 days for mains and less
than 12 for all other pipes
11. All cities - Operation   11. The program shows a
Enhancement Program          NPV > 12 %
(carried out).
- 29 -



Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. Durres - Wells, pumping    1. US$2.64             Regular progress reports,    *  Sufficient counterpart
station and pressure tank                             procurement reports,            financing is available.
disbursement reports, and    *  Additional staff for PIU
2. Durres - Transmission    2. US$0.10                audits.                         and PMST is hired
Main                                                                                  promptly.
3. US$0.62                                            *  Adequate capacity of
3. Durres Villages - Feasibility                                                      local construction
Study.                                                                                industry.
4. US$0.86                                            *  Delays in supply of
4. Fier - Well Field.                                                                 goods to Albania are
5. US$1.20                                               minimized.
5. Fier - Transmission Main.                                                       *  Decisions by local and
6. US$0.14                                               central government do
6. Lezhe - Distribution Main.                                                         not delay project
implementation.
7. Lezhe - Wells and Pumping  7. US$2.01                                           *  Procurement methods
Stations.                                                                             are streamlined and used
8. US$0.32                                               effectively and
8. Saranda - Navarice Spring                                                          transparently.
9. All cities:              9. US$1.10
(a) Repair
(b) Oper. Enhancement
- 30-



Annex 2: Project Description
ALBANIA: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.64 million
Durres - Wells, pumping station and pressure break tank: Construction of 7 new wells in Fushe Kuque to
replace the existing ones. The existing ones are getting filled with sand and it is impossible to replace the
well pumps over 30 years old without drilling new wells. Replacing pumps in the wells and in the pumping
station. Replace and rearrange collection to the suction tanks. Replace the existing break pressure tank.
Project Component 2 - US$0.10 million
Durres - Transmission Main Improvements: Construction of a valve chamber on each of the 20
connections to the 700 mm dia transmission main from the source of water to the Durres city service
reservoir. The valve chambers would be secure structures with locking covers and would house a meter
and a control valve for each connection.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.62 million
Durres - Rural Area, Feasibility Study: Examination of alternative measures to provide a controlled water
supply service to rural areas and to substantially reduce leakage, waste and misuse of water.
Project Component 4 - US$0.86 million
Fier - Well Field Upgrade: Security fencing for each of the nine operating wells to reduce the risk of
contamination by the public and by domestic animals. Establishment of a water sampling program for the
wells and the nearby Vjoses river to provide a warning of contamination from river borne oil wastes.
Rehabilitation of well heads, replacement of the existing obsolete pumping and electrical equipment.
Project Component 5 - US$1.20 million
Fier - Distribution Mains: The proposed works would include replacement of parts of three distribution
feeder mains. Two mains are DN 500mm and one is DN 250mm. The mains are 3km long. The mains
convey water from the Fier distribution service reservoir to a central valve chamber. Parts of these mains
that are severely deteriorated would be replaced. The mains were constructed more than 40 years ago.
They are fabricated from thin wall, spirally wound steel pipes, which have a relatively short life. Extensive
leakage is occurring from parts of the mains.
Project Component 6 - US$0.14 million
Lezhe - Distribution Main Replacement: The proposed works would include replacement of a distribution
main (610 m of DN 100 mm and 300 mm of DN 80 mm) and disconnection of a supply main to a disused
paper mill. A large paper mill discontinued its operations in 1991 and is now abandoned. The water
supply to the paper mill forms part of a ring main, which also supplies the communities of Quendra and
Zemra e Katundit. The configuration of the system prevents disconnection of the supply to the paper mill
without also disconnecting the supply to the two communities.
Project Component 7 - US$2.01 million
Lezhe - Wells and Pumping Stations: Lezhe and the surrounding areas depend for water on the Barbulloja
well field. The three operating pumping stations at the well field are no longer reliable and would be
rehabilitated, including the replacement of mechanical and electrical equipment.
Project Component 8 - US$0.32 million
Saranda - Navarice Spring: Replacement of the gravity transmission main, 2,400 m of DN 273 *7 from
- 31 -



Navarice spring to the Saranda distribution reservoir. Replacement of feeder mains to villages, 350 m
DN80, including valves,, valve chambers, bulk meters and chlorination facility; and security fencing to
protect the spring from contamination. Leakage from the transmission main is now extensive. The main
was constructed in 1978; to serve nine villages with an aggregate present population of about 6,600. The
yield of the spring varies seasonally from 30-70 lbs.
Project Component 9 - LIS$0.40 million
All cities - Repair of Visible Leakage: The repair of visible leaks primarily in distribution mains.
Project Component 10 - US$1.77 million
Consultant Services (excluding Feasibility Study). A consultant company with international experience
will carry out the final design and supervision, and assist the PIU in project management (procurement,
financial management).
Project Component 11 - US$0.70 million
All cities - Operation Ernancement: A consultant with international experience in network analysis and
operation will make basic measurements and analysis of the networks and recommend operation
enhancement.
Project Component 12 - US$0.21 million
All cities - PIU
- 32-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Loca_       For.i.n       Total
P...W gost_ .; Qoi:pwrlt        :     :        $mlllfon.  -US$miNhon   US $million
. Durres - Wells, pumping station                         1.40         1.20         2.60
2. Durres - Transmission main                             0.06         0.05         0.11
3. Durres Villages - Feasibility Study                    0.06         0.56         0.62
4. Fier - Well Field                                      0.46         0.38         0.84
5. Fier - Transmission Main                               0.65         0.55         1.20
6. Lezhe - Transmission Main                              0.07         0.06         0.13
7. Lezhe - Wells and Pumping Station                      1.05         0.92          1.97
8. Saranda - Navarice Spring                              0.16         0.16         0.32
9. All cities: (a) Repair - Total: $0.44/2.7%             0.46         0.74          1.20
IDA: $0.25/2.5%
(b) Oper. Enhanc. - Total: $0.70/4.8%
IDA: $0.43/4.3%
10. Consultant Services (excluding feasibility study)     0.18         1.59         1.77
11. All cities - PIU                                      0.18         0.03         0.21
12. Unallocated                                           1.16         2.51         3.67
Total Baseline Cost                                       5.89         8.75         14.64
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs              5.89         8.75         14.64
Total Financing Required              5.89          8.75        14.64
Local  tori        ~~Total
_ ,, -Prp    Coot By                      $rnorlon ,.,. '            $million
Goods                                                      2.30           6.56         8.86
Works                                                      2.84           0.00         2.84
Services                                                   0.79           2.10         2.89
Training                                                   0.00           0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs     5.93          8.66         14.59
Total Financing Required      5.93          8.66        14.59
Due to rounding errors, total amount in both tables might be slightly different.
- 33-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ALBANIA: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic analysis has been prepared for each project component and all selected components show an
Intemal Rate of Return of 10% or higher. The sensitivity analysis shows that most of the components are
very robust and for the three components with higher sensitivity, actions to mitigate the risk will be
implemented. The analysis of fiscal impact shows that the project will have an overall positive fiscal
impact.
Main Assumptions:
Economic Pricing of NVater
Economic prices of waler have been estimated taking into consideration findings in regard to
willingness-to-pay included in the Social Assessment that was carried out for the three towns of Elbasan,
Fier and Lezhe in 1996. The study found that, among both the higher income and lower income groups,
improved availability and safety were the prime factors influencing willingness to pay higher prices for
water. For higher income groups, the average amount households were willing to spend on water was
about 300 lek per month (about 2.5 percent of total income), and among lower income households, about
180 lek per month (about 3.5 percent of total income). At a consumption of 10 cubic meters per month,
these limits are equivalent to a price of water of between 18 to 30 leks per cubic meter, with a weighted
average of around 22 lek per cubic meter. The prevailing water tariffs for domestic supply are about 21
lek per cubic meter, almost at the same level as the weighted average based on willingness to pay. The
prevailing level of 21 lek per cubic meter charged to households has therefore been used for the economic
analysis. The other prices used are the prevailing prices of 30 lek per cubic meter for institutions and 80
lek per cubic meter for industry. Based on these underlying prices, a weighted average tariff for each
component has been estimated applying as weights the respective consumption volumes by consumer
category, i.e. domestic, institutions and industry.
Sensitivity Analysis
The results of the sensitivity analyses are shown under the table with the economic analysis for each
component. Except in cases where the starting IRRs have been very high (e.g. over 50 percent), the
sensitivity has been tested for the following scenarios:
* one-year delay in irnplementation and realization of benefits
* 10 percent increase in capital costs
* 50 percent lower realization of projected electricity savings
* 25 percent lower realization of the projected incremental value of water benefits
* 50 percent lower realization of the projected incremental value of water benefits
- 34 -



The Romano Spitale wells component has not been considered as it had a starting base IRR which was
negative.
Of the remaining 7 components, 4 (the Durres Transmission Main; the Durres Well Field and Pumping
Station; the Fier Well Field Upgrade; and the Lezhe Distribution Main) are robust in regard to the
sensitivity analyses with the IRRs remaining well over the normal 10 percent threshold under all scenarios.
For the remaining 3 (the Fier Distribution Main; the Lezhe Rehabilitation of Wells; and the
Saranda-Novarice Spring and Transmission Main), the IRRs were around 10 percent which is one reason
that they were more affected in all cases of the sensitivity analyses. In two components the IRRs would
drop to 6 percent if the loss reduction is overestimated by 25 percent in one case and 50 percent in the other
case. Additional field measurements will be conducted to verify the losses before the work is carried out.
In the Saranda-Navarice Spring component the IRR would drop to 7 percent if the savings in pumping
costs are 25 percent lower than expected. That can only be the case if the consumption in the villages is
much higher than expected, but in that case there would be additional value generated from the water used
in the villages.
Fiscal Impact
The project is expected to have an overall positive fiscal impact. Although the Government would be
required to make an up-front contribution of about 380 million lek in terms of revenue foregone from
exemptions of taxes and duties on equipment, the project is expected to generate incremental value added
taxes of about 75 million lek per year, yielding an estimated positive net fiscal impact with an NPV of
about 72 million lek over a period of 12 years. The analysis of the fiscal impact is in the project files.
Benefits Considered
All benefits and costs are in 1999 prices including contingencies but excluding direct tax and duties. The
estimated losses in m3 are 1998 figures.
1.   Durres - Romano Spitale Wells (not included in the project due to insufficient benefits)
Scenario before Drivate operator
With 18 hours of pumping per day: Production = 1,620 m3/d
Additional supply would be 972 m3/d due to 40 % losses. It can be assumed that all 972 m.3/d can be sold
to customers, because these are about 10,000 customers in the area with an average supply of only 20
lIc*d. So even with the additional supply, the consumption would be only 117 lI/c*d (or excluding industry
106 I/c*d), which can be regarded as justified even if it is above the minimum of 80 VIc*d. It is assumed
that 5 % can be sold to institutions, 5 % to industries and 90 % to domestic customers.
The O&M cost would be $ 10,842/a for electricity costs (630 kWh/d by operating 18 hours and 6
lek/kWh) plus $5,835 for cost of chemicals and $2,652 for other maintenance costs.
Before the private operator has increased the water quantity to service reservoir No. 4, the component in
Romano Spitale has no effect on and benefits for Fushe Kuqe. Scenario after private operator has
improved the situation and sufficient water quantity from Fushe Kuqe is available.
- 35 -



Benefits are now the savings in O&M costs:
For Romano Spitale O08M costs are as mentioned above (or can they pump 24 hours, that would increase
the benefits)
For supply from Fushe Kuqe the O&M cost would be $75,931/a for electricity costs (4,681 kWh/d and 6
lek/kWh) plus $7,920 for cost of chemicals and $3,600 for other maintenance costs. (Are these 1999
costs?)
2.    Durres Transmission Main: It has been assumed that due to the lockable valve chambers and
flow control, the losses can be reduced by 1 percent only before the private operator is in place and by 10
percent when the private operator is in place. Every percent point in reduction equals 393 m3/day reaching
the service reservoir which supplies Durres city. Taking into account 40 % losses in the distribution
network, additional sale; will be 236 m3/day, because the present consumption is only 55.5 I/c*d due to
water shortage.
3.    Durres Feasibility Study: The benefits of a Feasibility Study are regarded to be so obvious that
no economic benefits have been calculated.
4.     Durres well field, pumping station and pressure-break point chamber: The construction of 7
new wells would save 46,957 kWh/year of pumnping costs for each well together (total 328,700 kWh/year).
There are 12 pumps at the pumping station of which 2 have been replaced recently. In addition, 4 pumps
will be changed under the ongoing rehabilitation. In total, 9 pumps are required, therefore an exchange of
three additional pumps is foreseen under the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project. This would save
439,467 kWh/a for each pump (total 1.318,401 kWh/a). The supply of two additional stand-by pumps is
assumed to have 5 percent of the savings of the other new purnps (total 43,947 kWh/a).
The component will reduce the losses at the suction tanks by 100,000 m3/a. That is equivalent to 0,4
percent of the production and will therefore decrease the electricity consumption at the well fields by
10,070 kWh/a. Withoul: the new collectors for the suction tank, the required repair of the suction tark
would shut down the purnping station for 30 days in the year 2002 due to urgent repairs. Losses of sales in
this case are estimated to be 31,080 m3/day (total 932,400 m3).
The rehabilitation of the breakpoint chamber will reduce the leakage by 150,000m3/year. Until the private
operator is imnproving the situation at all points, it can be assumed that additional 85,500 m3/a can be sold
in Durres cities assuming 5 % losses in transmission main and 40 % in distribution network. After the
private operator has improved the situation, the benefits would be savings of pumping cost for 157,500
m3/year based on 1998 figures with an annual increase of 5 percent (assuming 5 % production and
transmission losses), which will save 15,861 kWh/a in the well field and 181,767 kWh/a in the pumping
station (1.255 kWh/m3). Without the rehabilitation of the pressure-break point chamber the leakage at the
chamber would increase by 10 percent/year and it can be assurned that the chamber will collapse sooner or
later because the flow is destroying it. For the economic analysis it has been assumed that the complete
failure of the chamber will occur in the year 2005 and losses in sales will be 31,080 m3/day.
5.    Fier Well Field Upgrade: Under the project all nine pumps will be changed. Due to the expected
average lifetime of five years, it can be assumed that without the project every year one of the pumps would
fail.
- 36-



Before private operator and metering:
The savings for each pump failure are the electricity consumption per pump 1,902 kWh/day) and the costs
are reduced revenues. For the revenues it is assumed that for each m3 less production 0.56 m3 (44 %
losses) are supplied to customers. Assuming that only 47 % are used and the other is wasted, the losses
would be the lost revenues from 0.263 m3/m3 production. The production is 25,228,800 m3/a and if one
pump fails, production decreases by 2,803,200 m3/a which will decrease revenues from 737,241 m3/a. It
is assumed that at the time the private operator reduces the production needs by 35.5 % (see below), at
least three of the nine pumps will have failed so that the effects for pump failure are the same before and
after the private operator is in place.
It is assumed that 4.3 % can be sold to institutions, 18.8 % to industries, 46.9 % to the power plant and
30% to domestic customers. It is assumed that this ratio will not change after metering because waste is
assumed to be distributed equally.
After private operator and metering:
It can be assumed that waste after metering will be reduced from 26.5 % of production to 5 % of
production (25 VIc*d) and leakage from 44 % of production to 30 % of production. That means a reduction
of 35.5 % of production is possible. In this case 3 of the nine pumps would be standby pumps. Without
these stand by pumps it is assumed that 5% of required production could not be delivered. Therefore 69.5
% of the electricity savings identified before private operator and metering can still be assumed. Savings in
electricity are assumed to be 4,612 kWh/d before private operator and metering and (3205 kWh/d after
private operator and metering is in place, based on 69.5 % of electricity savings as above). Savings in
maintenance are the same before and after the private operator and are assumed to be US$20,400/a.
6.    Fier Distribution Main: Losses will be reduced by 660,256 m3/a in 2002 (based on losses of
450,964 m3/a in 1998) and losses without the project would increase by 10 percent/year. To calculate the
benefits these amount can be multiplied with the marginal cost for water delivered to the distribution main
(US$0.05/m3). Due to improvements currently under implementation by EU PHARE, the losses in the
transmission main will be reduced so that the marginal costs will be reduced to US$0.04/m3 in 2003.
The reduction in maintenance cost can not be calculated because the main is beyond repair. This is
therefore captured by the annual loss increase of 10 % and the assumption of complete failure in the year
2019. In the case of complete failure, 80 percent of the 72,000 inhabitants would be without water. Based
on an assumed consumption of 100 l/c*d, the value of 2,102,400 m3/a would be lost.
7.    Lezhe - Distribution Main: Reduction of losses of 21 I/s (662,253 m3/a). Without the project,
these losses would increase by 5 percent/year. To calculate the benefits, this amount can be multiplied with
the marginal cost for water production (US$0.04/m3) plus 8.6 to 12 % (selected 10 %) for the losses
between the production site and the distribution main. That leads to marginal costs of US$0.044/m3.
8.    Lezhe - Rehabilitation of Wells and Chlorination Unit: Savings in electricity are assumed to be
1,697 kWh/d before private operator and metering and 1,273kWh/d after private operator and metering is
in place (25% reduction in water production. It has been assumed that waste will be reduced to 20 % of
consumption excluding waste.). Savings in maintenance are the same before and after the private operator
and are assumed to be US$3,000/a.
It has been assumed that the over 30 year old Chinese equipment will fail completely in the year 2003.
- 37 -



This would reduce the sales by 1,270,200 m3/a (34,800 customer using 100 I/c*d).
Additional health benefi:s will result from the chlorination unit. Because of missing data to estimate these
benefits, these benefits are not included in the economic analysis.
9.     Saranda - Navarice Spring & Transmission Main: The present demand in the area of this
component is 554 m3/d (based on 80 I/c*d for 6,600 inhabitants and 5 % leakage of the new system).
The main benefit would result from the additional water from this gravity system reaching the city, where
the water nornally is supplied by pumping. The excess water supplied from this system to Saranda city is
at present close to nothing and will be increased by the project to 3766 m3/d. To calculate the benefits the
difference can be multiplied with the marginal cost for water production (US$0.03/m3).
It has been assumed thal: there are no additional sales in the city before or after the private operator is in
place.
- 38 -



ALBANIA - WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Durres - Romano Spitale Wells Component - Economic Analysis
Unil       2000     2001      2002     2003      2004     2005      2000     2007      2000     2009     2010      2011      2012     2013     2014      2015     2016      2017     2015     2010      2020
R"sveiwtsiExpei*gS
c.lo-ennal w.le, pfroduc:d     mYday                             972       972
m3tya                         354710    3547b0
co-sumed by
domesll                       095%                       237041   337041
csssojoooog                     6%                        17730    17739
nduisbry                        5%                         17739    17739
doffl4wc                   10m3                               21       21
nsuohool                   1Q81M3                             30       30
kiwssy                     beFm3                              90       b0
liotemeooli watlr f0ven0as
ousbc                      0lk                           7077001  7077061
nhlOOloolO       os bF632170   532170
hukosoy                   bok                           1410120  1410120
solal                    bx                            9029151  9029151
elcclocryay bOi                1eFWN            6        6         6         6        0         8        6         0        6         6        6         6        8        6         6        6         6        6         6        6        6
el.cClCliy consumalton
-sthoutspro0ect              vwtvtay       4661     4801      4081      4081     4681       4601    4681      4001     4631     4001      46d5     4681      4681     4001      4681     4611    4087       4801     4608      4601     4681
wiut PrOa8c                  FWlvday        630     600        030       030 6     30      030       030      630       b30      620       030      630       020      030       630      630      630       630      630       630     c-o
O0M expenses w,hoot c 00eCl
&lecIocily                   les                           10251300 10251300 70251300 10251300 10201300 10201300 1025730   OS30 1025130 0 102013 90 1028 1300 1020130 0 10251390 10251390 1020120 0 1020130 0 1020130 0 1020130 0 10t10 OzOl3sO
cIe7ic0ls                     lek                           1306dO0  1206000  1308100  1306800  1300800  1306800  1302500  13089000  1306130 1306800  1300  7300005  1305800 1620dO0  1300000  1306800  1206000  1300010   1300800
n.olsoaoco                    bF                            13    O  134000 5   94000 0 94000 40   0094000   084000   0u4000  104000         594000   6940     00 6 940 00 0 940 00    -b9684004000   004000   694000   094000   094bO0  5940uO
tal                           leI                         12152900 12152190 12152100 121502100 121502100 12152100 12152100 12152190 1210210  12102100 171521W   1210210 12102100 12102100  121621b121521900 12121900 12152100 12152190
Ca)
rCO        00r t eoponses win plotect
sIctrcl.ty                   les                           1379700  1379700  1370700  1379700  1379700  1379700  1317900  1379700  1379700  1379700  1370700  1378700 .1379700  1379700  137Y700  1379700  i379700  7379700  1379700
tenncals                     lek                           982777   9602775   002775   962775   002775   002770   0b2775   002770   002770   062778   962770   002776   002775   962775   962770   002010   002175   532775   bu2715
sisalrsoalacas                Ik                            437560   437680   437560   437580   437500   4375d0   437560   437526       437580   437568    43750   437500  437680  437500   437bO   4376b0   437580   437500  437.00
Mai                         lx                            2700050  27d0055  27b0055  278000S  2780050  27005  27OO55  2780056  2780006  2780050  276056  278255  2700055 2780006  27d0055 2180055 2780005   2700055  27b0055
rac :001l O&M eoponses         lek                          -9372135 -9372135 .9372135 -0372135 -9372135 -0372135 -9372135 -9372135 -9372135  29372135 -9372135 -9372135 -9372132  -9372135 -9372135 -9372135 -9372135 -9372132  -9372135
capiul coos o s new eotsimeabs    milbrnb9    1230   10530
sanois h O&  expensas         mblon fek                        987       9 37     9 37      0.7      0.27      9 37     9 37      927      0 37      027      9.37      9 37     9 37     9 37      9 37     9.37     9 37      937      9 37
, lremenolt w1ar renems        fifon 00                          9 03     9 03
hrerne0lal 05 tbar7146010      Iileki  -10530   -10530           1845    1040      937       9.37     9.37      9.37     937       937      937      9.37      037       9.37     937      937       9.37     9.37      937      937      937
am .                           '1%
NPV.                     *1901 n*ln ekk
E. nlUv,iy Analysis
use-year delay In xlomergeteon
psrul colsu ol ns  Owiasunweoi    mw  00nle  70 20   70 2     70 2
-vQs sn OUt expnsen            mJrn box                                   9 37      9.37      37      9 37      9 37     9 37      9.37     9 37      9.37     9 37      9 37     9 37     027       9 37     9 37     9 37      9 3 7    9 37
-erseUnOl water eves           nikon lek                                  9 03      9 03
hlncemel0t01l594redr             nxion llk    -7020   7020    -70.20     18.40     1040      9.37      9        0.37     9.37      937      9.37      9.37     937       9.37     9.37     937       937      937       9.37     937      *37
bRR .                          1%
NPV                       * 105OS mlwon bxs
1111m9. n8awbanl0ial l1.Sxis



ALBANIA: WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Fier - Wll Fiield Upgfade Component - Economic Analysis
unJO       3000 000            2as         os      300       200504 loo  4      0007      2004     300       2000        200 t      2003       2013        204         2000       3014       zo27        2004        2006        32.0
Lwn                                            6 8  0    5         6                  4         0        0         a           8          6          6          *           8           0          6           6          6            0
s.ov4,    0cu     0 6c                                              4612       4412      4022     320       3226      322      2206      2206  3206            22002 306 320                       6        3 3206      22056      2206        3206      320          320s
06603)0    0000,00  t008060  00t202   0010006  S000025  018025  106025 6        G00626   0160625   100b026    0000626    00002s        01006       116025   000020    006002s    0066426         000025
OThOob "0 002                               lu        00 0      I 02      7 02     2 02      7 07      7 02     702         7 02       0 02        0 02       2 02        702         1 002        02       702         7           02  1 02
000.ooo.o49w.0  bOn                  ooo]Owa.                        7372240    47402  22007    24960004  3000206  4423440  0000047  20w724  830084           0036005    6835059   693106       6632t60     6632009     6235069   0032088    6630069    0630060    600526
.Y . wl.3 w4602                                               4402     4602      44 62    40 2      4662      4s62     4 42      46 u2       48 62      40 02      4 572      44 62        48 62      40 62      46 62       48 62       04 82        0a 62
04804000160-       m9-00              -N0oW       24 s62 0o
b    bo. .s Ooioo ---own             mnIo  X                          la000     10000     8a el       02      702       702       702      702       702         70 2       700        700        702         702         702        707         702        002          702
rco.00009lbl, 6                      ooIo26 35270                               704       07210 1 10 043     170 7 5 02 4026   250 07   200150867   22193a     3212030    321.630    220 86       322063    32822009    2202       02930 634    22 92     3220GM       322006
,ba bb-f6, "di                        "o   .2 00    42 04          4287       6064    00 13   150 00    00047    220.04    20742   20 109   328.00           322600     3269       32 9# 3269 2400        32260        2 466     3220        2260       32600        1240 A
iRe -                       04607400.
o2u04oso0060 n0..00.00006.          oooaooooofi   28 8      300        0100
4a n./.O c o     - -4-10       n     0                                            to to     166       202      702       20 2      202      762       2.02        1 02       2 02       0 02       7 02        2 02        7 Oa       302         7          10    7       07
006,009w*000000                     00460006                                    2517      20 64    07013    04300    07025  23463   25040    20002              3220      320094     32004       21204      3220        320090     2204        320 64     32010        3204
0004079,606404620                    ooodoO46     2666   .3000        -2000      4657 a     0, S    00433    10500o    1067    22100      25742    203.09       3280 a     328 go       32600    32a80       3280        32696      32800       2840        2N280       322680
Mu4.                                   ^44
8-                                 t40%7 .1111n
41M   SJOXf  d1 W klfy -k
300 a,..0 W 0o4 01.0bb    28650 s2le
n         _.0 0        4            b o                               006 n6 06            42 4     3 60      3         2360      360      50        20          30l        30         3. 0       361026      360         2          300        20St        31          32S
00264049w0400040044                  8004nu06                         2522       2064    02725    0430       07020     20063    200       207    32204          2204       3224       32294      221004       2294       3220       321204      32294      32204        22000
V.-" r    wb4d4 0                    00900624 65    8209              4082       2869    40127   14069    06238    20004    26340    20900    32645             22646      3246       32645      322146       326254     2264S      326 45      32042                  32646
007 .                               3n.5s talloo   k
20  1- 0" o   .MO    4  7        m          2656    62 19
.a*r9s809.o000000oo00oo00o           48,ooo.6                          100 t      000       860       102      702       702      702       102       702         702        7.02       702        702         702         1.02       702        202         702          702
ao.ooo.oojw.0600000.04               0009 6                            0000is    35277 62   02       7036 4   0 43    00730    02620    042003    0091 e         0097      08917      16069      16097       16097       15000        f0697     e0097      10047       06061
-1 m       Wj- b.Ms                  M0w6         -2e66    4204       2790       42817     6.47      7805     0045      04.33 2  0222    050t0   16799          1699       16707  0 799 0064     087609      0164        087109     04164       081.00     00190       087W
NPV.                               407.30 4%U- b
IV00S06. r-b-il05o0



ALBANIA WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Fler - Dilsributlion Main Component - Economic Analysis
LWI       2On.     2001       2002      2002      2004     20        2*00     2002     20        200      2010        2011       002a       2012      2014        201$        2017      2011        2010       2010        2020    0072
wW. sos ,...                                                      000200    720202   796010   07001   t60lC1  1002249  70160   1200052  1010317          1&01004    1712534    130101   2072166    2276302    2520321    26253    30220!
ono.njweOwe.                        24mX62 0a is                                 40       540      540      542       040       640     540    -640          040        540 7        40       640  5       40        040        40         040
_q7sho w b                          mt60nbt                           440       *92      431       475      622       0 74     032        005     7064       041        6725      1017       1110       1221       1364       14709      7t5
we      s.      .,ookboH*0 t          ,2-                                                                                                                                                                                                          002400      2102400  2702I02
_              n  ,dw 1..oW         1 13                             20 40     26 4      26 4     2 06 45    25 45    2S 45    25 45    265 4    2645        2545      25 46      25 45      26 45       20 45      25 45      25 46      2S 45       2S 45       26 40
tcl.0Ws o m'dw ,n*                              41.3t   110 57
o-_w itnnDW4WII                     m04106      47.74    71057        440       302       423      475      522       574      002      095       704        041        025       1017       I719         227       13 04      7400       1020        5207        5307    5357
NPV                         4.     %1 mb 
00*.Aw% A .pk.o.* d.t2p.o*00***c...  70.
caoodrwoll      .nl_              m40          47?3    10292      5020
0.o, .. b-fi, -                           WA.S                        S         440       092      431      475       622      57       0 32       95         704       04         a 026     0017        1101       12231      724         14 09      I  0       02305    006
--a. 07.b*mI.                        14076      -4720a  .006 2       5020       44        2032     4271     41 05522           0 74     6232      000         7064      0 47       920       l 1077      777        7027i      13064      74006       II          5 510    Sit*
UPR  .                          44270,170000
010 k      inoo.  ,i029*700.
hPV ..                           .t4 -  -   m. lka  62i    11
-~4 W    b         d                      M 66 2b42 -I21b63 0          44,     322       431       475      622       674      032      095       7064       047        026       7077       1110        1237       1254       1 40       102 3      0 537       567       503S
IRR.                                 4%
s0% n         ` i*.720.otw.foto
(pj4e 001  d    -                   mi.. 0100k00  47 38   310 07
,4s.w MwIO..4.                        70 0I6                         223        108      276       237      20t       207      716    3247       302         426        462        609        5609       0a7         07         745        070       2670        2070     2175
W .r47004t06*                        "70000      4726   -11067       223        70 0     270       237      207       27       3216     347       202        420        462        600        559        070 I        77        74         070       2410        2670    2676
IRR0                                  0%
UPv .                           .70 34 o700 06
-4MJ E-U- d                          "-nw   W70n1  47 3d   Ito 67
,4o.o*wMw b7..2.40                  7710*00009                       446        202      427       470      622      610       022      096       704        047        025       7517       7710        7227       7204       1000       7920       0207        5301    0201
moo.m.r000400,ol**                  m00006    -4720  -77007          4'd        320      427       470      622      07        022      090      7t4          47        026        017       1110        7227       7504       740        7020       557         0SI 2    0367
700 .                                  3S
7007.                            4 27 mbbn b0
IIiis5m. ,e.OnIIS



ALBANIA: WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABI4UTATION PROJECT
Lezhe - Dlstribution Main Component - Economic Analysis
Unit    2000    2001   2002    2003         2004      2005    2006    2007       2008    2009    2010    2011         2012    2013        2014    2010    2010       2D17   2Nt8        200e     22
55EVENUE0S/EXPENSES
reducionsOwateofisses                      m3/yta                    004973  846222   887483   031H57  070450 1027372 1078741 1132670 5109312 1248777  1311216 1370777  1445516 1517897 1593791 1673408  1757155 1845013 1937204
5m0 0nal coS 0l  at5o0                     1e0n3                        5 94    5094       s 94      5 94      0904    504      6.04     004      5.94     594      5094      5.94       5.94     5 94    5 94      5.04     5 94     5 04     5 94
sav    in ooo ot"losses                    mifbonlk                     4.70     5.02      527       564      5081     0.10     641      6.73     7.00     7.42      7.79    8018        a59      902     9.47      994    1044      50096    1i1
addi000 0s00gs                             milOO  5ek
totalIsazvsinwaSelSoOss                    0500005k                     4.78     5.02      5.27      5.54     5.81    0.10      641      6.73     7.00     7.42      7.79     0.5       8.59    9002      947       994    10.44     10.06    55.51
capital oSis of neow ivesbne.Ss            mUL;on 1k    5.40   12 60
iowemenal netbenelilLs                     mi100nek   -5540   -1260    4.78      502       5.27      0.54     0.01     6.50     0.41     6.73     7.00     7.42      7.79      5l0      0.559     902    9047       994    1044      10096    555
511                                   20%                           551          3 20%
NPV .                            31.00 ff0hn 4bk                    NPV * 45.72 mio,n lbk
pss..  MW* me70 0 Ye0-)                                               -ss10    co00n0   No Of 90 rea`l
5 .0.0.Ity Analy.W
oo.-y-.,d.AokV         ud -
caPI0.1 COOLS 0ol 50W Mve emiui 50ill5 0        5k    5.40        a 3     0.3
oO O..owal o,WooOwd                         0U000ek                               4.18     502       5.27     5.4      50el      0.50     .45      0.73    7.06       7.42     7.70      94       0 50     0.02     947      904      10.44    5000
0/naeClmit0lnet benll5                     001o lk    .5.40    -030   -0.30       4.78      002      527      5.54     581       0.      0. 64    0 a73    7.00       7.42     7.79      0.1s     050      902      045    9o4        5044    I0Wd
,               ~~~~            ~             ~~IRR .      25s
N4PV .                               25.i9Om Oon bk
s0x   wMa*0d0& ao0  w    ls *04 s0
capiU Costs d   0 new0 00esl0en0 s         mi 5on       04k    s 40    12.60
..Olwa.050540sa                            moonlok                       230     2.55      294       277      2.05     305      320      330    3253       3.75       30a      4.00      429      455      4.73     407      522      s40      575
kicuoealoeSnotbeOef50                      00010050k   .5.40   .62.0    230      255       264       2.77     295      30s      320      3.30     2.53    3271       30o       4.00      420      451      453      495      522       540     5 5
NPV.                                 7.701 mlon bk
5/5l0/0. obw3iao-a1116A0.s



ALBANIA: WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Lezhe - Rehabilitation of Wells and ChloGInation Component - Economic Analysis
Unni    2000    2001   2002    2003      2004    2005    2006    2007    2000    2009    2010    201t         20t2    2013      2014    2015   2015    20t7    2014    2010    2020
REVENUESIEXPENSES
oaoo  in ocncly coal0phson             mrnaoobe                    3t8      3603     322      270     276    276       2.76    2.70    2.78    276        276     270       276     2.70    2.76     276     276      276    276
savsos1a6imlenance0s5s                  -own lk                    041    041        041      041     041    04t    041    0.41    041    041            0.41    041        0       04 041    041    04)     04)      04       0241
wos,g4ed average walerl adl)            le.hn3                    2545   2545    25.45    2545    2545   2545    2545   25.45   2545   25.45    2545    2545               2545    2545   2545    2545   2545    25 45   2545
sa"nosmwale losses (after 2003)         m31year                         1270200  1270200 1270200 1270200 1270200 1270200 5270200 t270200 1270200  1270200 1270200  1270200 1270200 1270200 1270200 1270200  1270200 1270200
we oe) sa5,ios5 wwale( loses            mWison lok                        32 33    32.33    32.33   32.33   32.33    32.33   3233    3233   3233    32.33   3233           3233    32.33   3233   3233    32 33    32 33   32 33
captal costs of now 0 vesunenMs         m9bon Lk  78 94  1t2 80
hcremonlal Peoei0n0las                  mlSo lek .78 94 .192.80   4 09   36 42    35 9       3 35 50   35 20   35.50    35 50   35 S0   35 50   35 00    350 0   35 00     35 00   35 50   35 50    35 50   35 00    35 50   35 50
IRR .                              10%
NPV -                         -1.28 4nUUon lok
Mob: ttlifibeanek00Inotdod
SUnsIUvity Ana0ysi
ont-y0lrIOmptlrentaUorl delay
caodal corls of new mvesinenIs         oPAW lol  70.94   94 40  96.40
,arekom wavraw 1s036 Saws               in501  bt                          4.09    30 42    35 96    35.50   35 50    35.50   35 00   35 50   35 50    35 50   35 50       35 5t   35 50   35 00   35.50   35 50    35 0   35 50
ioteferntal ot booef0Ls                 n4w bek -78 94  .90 40  -9 40    4 09    30 42    35 06    35 S0   3550    35 50   35.50   35 S0   35 50    35.0   35 00    35 50   35 0   35.50   35 S0   35.50    35     35 50
NPV                             .2528.7t 1m8 lok
eapUtAl 00st OIr"ses by 702
cao tai costs o0 n0w mISeMImeltIs      rnil0 n lO  86 03  2)2 08
,aluea Of 01t waW  bss VS               mI0 onebk                  4.09   36.42    35 00    35 50   35 50   35.50    35 S0   35 S0   35 50   35.50    350 0   35 S0    35 50   35.00   35.50   35 50   35 50    35 00   35 S0
incremenlal ne0 benebls                 nAIon lek -86.83 -212.08   4.09   30.42    35 96    35.50   35 50   35.50    35.50   35 50   3555   35 50    35 50   35 50    35 50   35.50   35050   35 00   35 50    35 50   35 50
IR .                                  *%
NPV ^                           .41.50 m1Won bk
25%0 Io  r falloaJeon In walof loss savhlVs
Cuaipal Costs 0o Me. rnestaIOOs          5t50n k1k  78 94  192.80
MOO of waler less 6ags                  000on lok                  3 07   27.31    25 97    26 62    26 82   26.62    20.82   20.62   20.62   26 82    25 62   26 62    26 62    28 62   26 62   26 02   2d 02    20 62   26 62
hmcremenl rndebooeSlo                   mSi],O loek .7894  -192.00   307   27.3)    2697    20.62    2682   2662    2662   2562   26.62   26.62    26 62   2.2            2662    2662   2662    2662    2662    2062   2862
1R-.                                  8%
NPV *                            44.07 mUUon lok
50% low0.e"aliualllon in wal"r 1Oss savings
a'.a1  cosb Of new 0ve0wm0t5           amlson lok  78094  192 60
nakaof walerlO5Ssraogs                  nAon0 lo                   2.05   18.2      17098    1775    17.75   1775    17.75   17.75   17.75   1775       1775    17.75      17.75    17.75   1775    17.75    1775    1775   1275
vmceemt1a1net oert0s                    ff mOkon kk .78.94 -19280   2.05   1821     1798    17.75    17.75   1775    17.75   1775    17.75   17.75      17.75    17.75     17.75    17.75   17.75   17.75    17.75    1775   17.75
M .                                    2%
NPV *                            -t 11.75  nillr  lolk
1I11500. newablaittS01



ALBANIA: WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABILITATION PROECT
Durres  T Transmission Mains Component - Economic Analysis
Ulul     2000   2001    2002    2002    2004      2005     2005     2007      2008      2009      2810     2014      2012     2013      2014      2015     2016    2017      2018      2019      2020
REVENUESJEXPENSES
waler loss feductoo             m3lday                      393      3D3    1905     2946      3930    3930      3930      3930      3930     3930      3930     3930      3930      3930     3930    3930      3930      3t$js     i930
*l3yoaf                  143445  143445  711225   1076020  1434450  U434450  1434450  143440   1434450  1424450  1434450  1434450  1434450   1434450 51434450  1434450  1434450   1434450  1434450
UrosnD.lion assos               %                           40%     40%      40%      40%      40%      40%       40%.     40%       40%       40%      40%       40%      40%       40%      40%      40%       40%       40%       40%
narffe,,da4 ealo sales          3lO3year                  06007   86067  430335   645612  0t0070   60070   0.10070   660000   800r;0   80070   860610   800070   300070   6160670   86000  800670   e6067u   d60670    bu6170
averge waler a0lf              1ldm3                       25.45   2545   25.45    25.45    28.45    25.45    26 45    25.45        25.45    25.45    25 45    25.45    25.45       25 45    25 46    25.45    25 45      25 45     25 45
naetmentalwaseerevenues         inmAatek                    2.59    219   10.95    16.43    21.90    21.M0    21.90       21.90     214.8     2120 21.00    21.90         21.80     2100    2900    21490    2190         21M0    21.90
capelatcoasolaotnewloveolmentt  mAlbtlek    4.13   963
OwnmenlalSnbeot eli             nANotlek   -4.13  -9.63    2.19    2.19   10.95      1643    24.M0    21.90    21.90      21.90     21.90     21.90    21.90    21.90     2100       21.90    25 9    21    .00 24.80     2100      2190
IRR *5t%
NhV .                    101.05 arulon b.k
SeensovSy Anlsts
one -yeam dey In knip,owitafoan
r;p0al cost of5now  01ves0nts0  rnel5lonb9    413   482    4681
*         oaemowanalnbenelhs              miin&001k                           2.19   50.95    1643    21.90    21.M0    2150        21.90     21.M0    2140      21.90    21.90     21 0      21.M0    21.0     2i.M0    215.0      21 0     2i 90
4         Ooslonaemnolalbenetoa m*oolek  -4.13  *4.82   -4.05                  2.19   1095      1643    21300    21500     2410      21.90     21.00    21.90    2190    21.0        21.90     2490     2490    2190    2150        2590      2190
NYV -                        100.2806504 ak bt
25714ess revenues
cap"iaIcoMDI noewoinvOollntS   aOilenek    4.13   963
OrCfmelntalla net 50li         nmi  llonk                   1.04    1.64    8.21    12.32    1643    18.43       10.43    16 43     48.43     18.3    10.43    16.43      18.43     16.43    1643    16043      16.43     1643     1643
0er1 00e8a4e0be0el0 S           mnioo lok   *4.13  -0.63    1.64    164    *.21    12.32    1643    16.43        16.43    16.43     18.43     1643    16.43    18.43      1643      16043    16.43    16.43    16.43      1643     16043
ER                                45%
NPV -                        73.23 2n99rn bk
50K tess re00nu0s
capital Ca41 nl i 0wOvesSfents  ff1w10 4k    4,13   063
.1Ce181    nalt benet"         miotolk                      1.10    41.0    5.40      8.22    1095    10.95      10.05    10.95     10.85     50.95    1095    10.95      10.95     10.95    40.95    10.95    t095       10 9     10 95
nelotcefnentalbeoeloo          toilotlkt   4.13  -963       1.10    1.10    5.40      022     1085    10.95    1o05       10495     10.95     10.95    10.95    10.95     10.95     10.95    1095    10.85    10.95        1005    4005
IRR .                             35%
NPV *                        44.92 n"lon bk
I1/15990



ALBANIA: WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Durres - Well Moeld, Pumping Station and Pressure Break Chamber Component - Economic Analysts
158      26000   2001    2002    2002    2004        2000     2008      2007      2008      2000      2010      2011      2012      2012      2014      2801      2010      2017      2018      2011      2020
REVENUES/EXPENSES
veL-dcinozy ll                   k,IuWli                         0        0        0         0        0         0         a         0         0         0         0         0         0         a         a         0        8          0         0
psoip elecfrciy C068t11956 sa21569
three po0415                    OWlyear                  1310401 1310401 1310401  1310401  1310401 131401  1310401  1318401   1310401   1310401  1318401  M3140    1310401   1310401  1310401  1210401  1318401   1310401   131401
two sland-by pOll9             I.WO/yfr                    43047   43047   43041    43947    43941    43047    4304?    43041           4304?    43047    43041    43947        43047     4304?    43047    43047    43U4?        4354?     4/0)4?
low11421010                   bPS/year                  I3302340 13023140 1363340  1302340  1362340  1302340  1302340. 1362340  113633401  1362340  11362340  1302340  1362340   1302340  1362340  13230240  1362346   1362340   1362340
s.acon launk at&t/cty sasurgs    09810w                      20070   10070   20070    20070    10070    10070    10070          10070     10070     10070    10070    10070    10070        :0070    10070    10070    10070        10070     10010
sacOo tnlok wales los educion    mtyoao                     032400
now jsne eloctluidy s'le2        09I5/year                 320.700  328,700 328,760   320.100  328,100  320.700   320,700   320.700)  330,700   320,700  3238,700   320,700   320,700   320,.706   320,700  320,.700  330,700i  320.700  '328.106
twoakpolel dlaibtr 1aV105
wai" ak1aba6reoaclial           mviear                    150000  175700  160375   173644   102330   101442   201014   2110065   321610   232600   244334   2066051   200370    302847   30600    311030   327431    243003   360001
mc4,nem,u14 states a/o          e13/yeat                   00506   05566
sawngsoInwater losses (afteos200O)   oi3yoar                                         1244300 12344200 11344200 11344200 11244206  11344200 11344200 12344200 11344200 11344200  113442D0 1134430012344200 113144200  12344200  1134U4200
we/gb/nd aveaga Las/l            IobSo3)                      2045    245.4    25 45     20 40     25 45    20.45     20 45     20 45      25.45     25.45    35 40     20.40     20.40      2045     30 45    30 40      25 45     2545      2645
e/ech'csy conourmyuri 03w/OS
-9 weOe                        kWhryear                   15001   10054   17407    10361    10279    20243    21255    22320           23434     24600    25836    27128    20404        30000    31404    32074    34024        36354     30272
yewpavg IlabOn                $,W/iyear                 101787  100805  200300   21041    3206939   231000   243580   255704    266053   2820860  205676   306663   326427    342740   3598066   377081    380775    426.43    437444
/56//s5awvls                   kWh/yea                   187620  201506  211865   238118   240218   252228   2040J40   276082    2918071   306856    321525   236021    354811    372657   391290  420004   43235?    462t .7   415625
u cpital costs ol 00es Wlov reslnoli   salo  lek  208 72 248 02
(71  ovwin/elecbflc Ovapoflbes             n oskolt                11 30       140    11051    11.58    11065    11)72      120       1186f     11890     12 00     1214      :2 23     12 34     12244     12065    12067     12.00      12892     13 06
I/Cle.811o1 Wate IgrVooates,     nWi/on 0.0                  25891     2.18             288.11   288.72   208.71    208071    208.71    218 71    280 71   200172    200 71   280 71       280 71    288 71   288 72  ~208?2       20671    218 12
Wengowital/oobeoolids            e/0/oola  .108.72 -240.02    37.30    13823   22.02    36020 29 360036   30043    300021   300009   300 67    300.70    3500 5    20004    361.05    3,01.20    361.20   361.30    361 56    301183    301 7?
IPRR                          35%
aP                     1202.722w0ion Oak
SonsOlalty Aca/orsl
one-y/0m delay In 029810n1401aI/on
aplal cost of mew meumvsnes      sAlOo 1.6  108172  124.01  1224.0
saongs  welclcsyesipeosoa        na/kn lek                            01 40    1201      11 58    11005    11)72      2108      11.08      11090     12 05    122i4     12 23     12 34      12 44    12200    1220?     12 80      12192     13 00
M/cooyeI/lw al  tarOVewoes       nikmoleb                             20.01     3.18      000    200711   288 72    288.71    208.72    280721   280121   208072    280.7:    288.72    288 72    280 71   280 71    280 72    20072I    288 77
'ew,ew   na/ot/onoSlo            nalbon lek -100 72 -2248 5   124051    37.30    13069   11008   300.36   300.42    300051    300060    300067    300.18    306805    30004    361 05    361.10    30128   362 30    301.56    3010.3    361 17
PRR                                32%
P/pv -                        1020."4 n21/14 1.0
5081 roila///t1 of eleclulclly Sat4ogo
Capital cols o o/wc/wvosIwOah     MOrlakn0   100 72 248 02
saves me/ccilncyeslpense-        wi/Son/oak                   5.70     5.73     510       519        802     580       000       0.04      5 80      602       0 07      0.12      0217      0 22      028      0 34      0 40      0,48       053
wc,oemalal waliergoven,,s        fA/booBo                    25.82     2.28     0.00    280 72    208.72   200 72    208.72t   208.72    2808.71    2801.71    208 71    200 72    200.71    280.71    280 11   280 12   2801.72I    28522t    208 71
iwaosinonLa/oOlbeiOovos          r/kon Lek .20872 -248.03    31.00     7890     570    284.00   204053   204067    294021   204 60    204.05    284.13   284 78    204 83    284 80    204893    284869  20005    29511I    28521    265 24
PV2R                                2 4%
NWV -                          110.00 ndoon Isk
2014 roa/loaI/a o?resbni;es
capta Cl cos f now 00800 ner02   oS/on 1.0  106 73  240 02
sawng$inoltecslci/yOxOOO.nS      eOmoelek                    11.39    12.45    115 1II1.56        110       221172    12.~08    118 1sI1.08         12.65     12.14     12 23     12 34     12 44    12200     12867    12200      12092      13 00
h/naeuseylwatw9/reveean          01*00 1.0                   2285      1.00     0 00    144 35    244.35,  144.35    144.35    144.30    244.30    144.35    244.35   244 30    24435      144 35   24435   144 30    144 30    144 35    144 35
"I tObOla/a006 t/2          nekon/ok -20012 -240 02    24.30    22.04    11051    165503    156.00   156 00    2.562     156.23    256.31    256.40    106 40    200089   118.09    20080    15 GISO     207.02    207.10    10720    257 43
0/8-                      ~~~~~2310
NPVI                           4010.081616cc 1.0
lilts"f
ntewak,ar/aIll ol1oK



ALBANIA: WATER SUPPLY URGENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Saranda-Novarice Spring and Transmission Main Component - Economic Analysis
Unit       2060   7295l    2nn2        'Oni          200           :        200.     200       2000     20iO      Siai     iO.z    0012       2014     2015     2016     2007      2015     2010     2020
REVENUES/EXPENSES
savnns in volume punped nwat sales m3tyear                    1374590  1374590  1374590  1374590  1374590  1374500  1374500  1374590  1374590  1374590  1374590  1374590  1374590  1374500  1374500  13745900  1374500  137450  1374590
margsnal cosl otf wal            blm3                            4 05      4 05     4 05     4 05      4.05     4.05     4 05      4.05     4 05      4.05     4 06     4 05      4.05     4 05     4 05     4.05      4 05     4 00     4 05
savings i purwpng wsl            m1i9eok                         6 57      5 57     5 57      5.57     5 57     5.57      5.07     6 57     5.57      0.57     5 57     6 57      5 57     5 57     5 57     65        557      s s7     5 57
capoitcsis oftn new invesiOts    miltUon lsk  1245    2905
ibaemental net bonefils         CaW"  t    *12.45   -29.05        5.57     S 67     5 57      5.57     6 57     5 57      5.57     5.57     6.67      557      9 67     5.57      557      5.67     5 57      5 57     5 57     5 67      6 57
IRR -                         lit
NPV .                    3.16 millon lhk
Ssnsiiotty Anlysis
oyoa Irmpltmeniaton drlay
Caintot COSLS Of 05w aeslmaitis  mioon tbk    0245    14.63    14 53
value o inmemenabl wsater s      nilio n                                    .k  :  6 5 .67   5 67      6.57     6.57     5.57      5 67     6 57      6 57     6.57     5 57      6567     5 57     5 57     6.57      5 57     5 57     5 57
1r1emental net benefils         nsoon bk    -12.45   *14.53   *14.53       5 57     5 57      6.57     5 67     5.57      67       557      5 57      6 57     6 57     5.7       5.57     5.57     5.57     557      .57       5 57     5 57
IRR.                          10%
NPV                      0.07 m1U9n 1h9
capita cost Increases by 10X
r apLa cosis of nen w lnestmeis  mllion bk    13.70    31906
. alue oi buemeawb water sates  ntulon lok                       6.57      6.57     65.7     6.57      5 57     5 67     5.57      6 57     5.57      .57      5.57     557      5.57      9 67     5 57     6.67      6 57     5 57     S 57
ncrementai nei benefits          tmtonlk    *13.70   .3109       5.57      5.57     6.67     65.7      5.57     5.51     5.57      5.57     557      5.57      5.07     5.57     5.57      557      557     6557        57      057      057
IRRn                         10X
NPy n                    .0.37 mi0on Ink
21X lower ,eatUatio of savings
In pumping cost
capoat cosis oftnewt vnves90s    njit.on l    12.45    2905
Value otfsuewoniotnotersalos    nomontek                         4.10      419      4.10     418       4.10     4.10     4.18      4.18     4.18      4.18     4.18     4.18      4018     4.18     418      408       471      400      410
tcrfemental netfltne5s           nvloonto    -1245    -29.05     4.10      410      4.18      418      4.19     4.18     4 18      4.18     4.00      4.18     418      4.18      4.18     4.10     4.18     4.18      4.18     418      4 l
IRR*                          7%
NPV                     - 0.46 miltion uak
5D0b town roallraUon o savings
tn pumlpng cost
cap" arosts05  iew  esa" lft lstmnts  MAW lok  12.45    20 05
naue o oinremental naon sates    109n lok                         2.78     2.7      2.78     278       2.78     2.78     2.8       2.78     2.78      2.78     2.78     270       2.78     2.78     279      2.78      2.76     270      278
ncrmenblt net benefits           m,ion bOk   -12.45   -29 05      2.70     2.70     2.70      2.78     270      2.79     2.70      2.70     2.70      2.78     2.78     2 70     2.78      2.78     2.78     2.78      2.70     2 78     2.70
IRR *                         2.
NPV *                   .16.0e milt9n isk



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALBANIA Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Years Ending
Year        Year 2       Year 3  Year 4     Year 5    Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.5        3.0        9.5        1.6       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          0.5        3.0        9.0        1.6       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              0.5        3.0        9.5        1.6       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.5       2.0        6.5        1.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                 0.0        1.0       3.0        0.6        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0 0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     0.5        3.0        9.5        1.6       0.0       0.0        0.0
Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3      Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                                                     0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0                                        0.0       0.0        0.0
Govemment                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 47 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
The procurement of goods and services of the Bank (IDA) financed components would be procured in
accordance to the Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. The project components not fnanced by the Bank
would be procured in accordance with the national regulations or the co-financing institutions procurement
regulations. The project elements, their estimated cost, procurement methods, and procurement plan
detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions are presented in Table D.
All other procurement information including capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for
publication of GPN and the Bank's review process is presented in Table E.
Procurement under the Credit will follow the Bank's Guidelines in all respects: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA C redits, January 1995, Revised January 1996 and August 1996, and January 1999,
for Goods and Works, and the Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World
Bank as Executing Agency, January 1997, revised January 1999. For procurement under the Credit, the
Borrower would use: (i) the Bank's standard bidding documents for ICB procurement; and (ii) the Bank's
standard request for proposal for selection of consultants.
Advertisement
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Issue No. 525 of Development Business
on December 31, 1999, announcing goods and consultants services to be procured and inviting interested
eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and to request any complementary
information from the PCU/PMUs. The Specific Procurement Notice will be published at a later date.
Goods
International Competitive Bidding: Pumps, values, and related equipment which are estimated to cost
more than US$100,000, equivalent per contract will be procured using International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (January 1995, amended in September 1997 and January 1999). The equipment and goods
procured through ICB, consisting of one tender, will account for about 59% (US$750,000) of the total
value of the goods.
International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for contracts for goods and equipment
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 (i.e., first batch of meters, valves and related equipment ) where the
cost of ICB will clearly outweigh possible price advantages. The aggregate value is estimated at
US$475,000 equivalent. Intemational shopping procedures will be based on comparing price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from two different countries in accordance with Bank Guidelines. IS
accounts for 37% of the procurement of goods and approximately 3 percent of the project procurement.
National Shopping (NS). Minor sundry items not exceeding US$30,000 per contract may be
purchased on the basis of prudent national shopping by comparing price quotations obtained from at least
three local suppliers, in. accordance with Bank Guidelines. Aggregate amount of national shopping is
-48 -



estimated at US$50,000 equivalent.
Civil Works
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for civil works estimated to cost more than
US$500,000 equivalent per contract will be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (January, 1995, amended in September 1997 and January 1999). The civil works procured
through ICB will account for about 90 percent (US$9,850,000) of the total value of the civil works.
Expressions of Interest to prequalify bidders will be advertised in the national press and/or official gazette
and distributed to the embassies. Requests for proposals shall be issued to prequalified bidders, opened
publicly, and awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Procedures for NCB will be used for contracts for civil works
estimated to cost less than US$500,000 (i.e., repairs of the water system and for operational enhancement
in the cities of Lezhe, Fier, Durres, and Saranda and other such works) where the advantages of NCB are
clearly outweighed by the administrative or financial burden involved. NCB, consisting of 4 separate
contracts, aggregate is estimated at US$700,000. ECA samnple bidding documents or bidding documents
acceptable to the Bank shall be followed. Bids will be advertised in the national press and/or official
gazette, opened publicly, and awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. Foreign contractors will be allowed
to participate.
Minor Works (MW). Minor Works, consisting of several small contracts, will involve contracts for
less than US$100,000. Minor Works aggregate is estimated at US$325,000. Due to: (i) small contract
values of each repair or enhancement; (ii) works that are geographically scattered throughout each city; (iii)
emergency nature of repairs and enhancements; procurement of small-scale civil works in each city would
be procured under lump sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained by at least
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation and according to Bank guidelines.
The PIU would prequalify contractors for minor works by placing an advertisement to solicit expressions
of interest from contractors and maintain a register of qualified firms. The register would be updated every
six months and new contractors would be added. Contractors and firms would be required to have
experience in similar works in the last two years. The PIU would use sample bidding documents developed
in the ECA Region. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to complete the contract.
Consulting Services
Ninety five percent or value of US$2,200,000 equivalent of the consultants (firms and individual)
required by the project shall be engaged on Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), and 5 percent
(US$137,500) of the consultants (firms and individuals) shall be engaged by other procedures. Total
consulting services shall account for 20 percent of project procurement. Consulting contracts exceeding
US$50,000 shall be advertised in the local press. Individuals consultants shall be selected in accordance
with paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines: Selections and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in January 1999. The selection will be on the basis of
comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest.
Consultant services would be procured to prepare feasibility studies, to provide technical support and
supervision of the civil works project support and project auditing. The PIU will use Bank standard
contracts for all consultant services contracts. The following procurement procedures will be used:
- 49 -



1. Quality Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures would be used for contracting firmns for
feasibility studies for water supply along the Durres transmission main; technical support;
supervision of civil works; training and capacity building. All consulting assignments above the
value of US$200,000 will be advertised in the Developmnent Business. The estimated total value is
US$2,200,000.  National consulting firms may be considered for consulting assigmnents below
the value of US$ 100,000.
2. Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedure would be used for selection of an auditor to carry out audit
of the Project The estimated total value is US$30,000.
3. Individual Consultancies would be used for assigmnents related to project management as well as
assigmnents requiring specialized expertise. The PIU technical staff will be hired as individual
consultants to ensure continuity of technical expertise obtained through previous work on
IDA-financed projects and related training. They will be selected based on comnparison of
qualifications. There are no project management firmns as such in Albania with experience in
carrying out the project managemnent functions for World Bank-fnanced projects. Expenses for
PCU/PMU staff training would be disbursed with prior approval of the Bank. The estimated total
value is US$110,000.
Recurrent Costs
Project-related travel and subsistence, vehicle insurance, operation and maintenance costs for
equipment, office maintenance and supplies will be on the basis of annual budgets, subject to IDA
approval. They will total US$150, 000. The financing of these costs by IDA is on declining basis.
- 50 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Mothd
Expenditure Category            ICs                                         N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                            7.76            0.35           0.28           0.00           8.39
(5.06)         (0.10)         (0.16)         (0.00)         (5.32)
2. Goods                            0.25            0.00           0.30           0.00           0.55
(0.25)         (0.00)         (0.25)         (0.00)         (0.50)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Technical Assistance             0.00            0.00           1.32           0.00           1.32
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.32)         (0.00)         (1.32)
5. Incremental Operating Cost       0.00            0.00           0.21           0.00           0.21
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.08)         (0.00)         (0.08)
6. Unallocated amount and           2.09            0.81           1.27           0.00           4.17
refinancing of PPF                  (1.30)         (0.50)         (0.98)         (0.00)         (2.78)
Total                            10.10           1.16           3.38           0.00           14.64
(6.61)         (0.60)         (2.79)         (0.00)        (10.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national and international shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project
funds to local government units.
- 51 -



Prior review thresholds (rable B)
The Bank's prior review of procurement will cover all ICB, NCB, and DC packages, and in particular,
the following: a) master lists of equipment, packaging of bids and updated cost estimates; b) all ICB
contracts for goods; c) the first three NCB contracts for civil works in each city and the first three contracts
for minor works in each city; d) the first three IS contracts for goods in each city and the first three NS
contracts for goods in each city; e) terms of reference for all consulting assignments; f) all direct
contracting; and g) all consulting contracts with firms and individual consultants. With respect to prior
review, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply. It is
estimated that this prior review will cover about 80 percent of the value of all contracts combined for civil
works, equipment and technical assistance financed by the Bank. One in five contracts will be subject to
selective post award reviews. Progress of procurement activities will be monitored by the PIU. Periodic
reports on procurement progress, including variations in schedule, will be submitted to the Bank on a
regular basis. Details of the procurement plan will be discussed during the pre-appraisal and finalized at
the appraisal.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                         >500                      ICB                      500
<500                     NCB                first 3 contracts for
each city
<100                  Minor Works          first 3 contracts for
each city
2. Goods                         >100                      ICB                       100
<100                       IS               first 3 contracts for
each city
< 30                      NS               first 3 contracts for
each city
3. Services                       N/A                     QCBS                   All contracts
Individual Consultant        All contracts
Least Cost Method           All contracts
4. Miscellaneous                  N/A             In accordance with annual
Incremental Operating                               budget and schedule
Costs                                              satisfactory to the Bank
5. Miscellaneous                                 Included in Categories 1, 2,
Refunding of Project                                      and 3
Preparation Advance
6. Miscellaneous                                 Included in Categories 1, 2,
Unallocated                                               and 3
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    12.43
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
- 52-



Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 53-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of three years. The disbursement
profile of the Project has been based on experience gained during the previous two Bank-funded projects
within the water sector in Albania. The Project has been designed within the capacity of the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport to execute over a three year period and loan funds are expected to be fully
disbursed within three years of effectiveness.
Special Account
While acceptable disbursement mechanism based on PMRs is not in place, disbursement will take
place using the traditional disbursement mechanism. To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association,
a Special Account dencominated in US Dollars. The authorized allocation will be in US$600,000. Upon
effectiveness, the borrower may withdraw US$300,000 from the Credit account, representing 50% of the
authorized allocation. When the amount withdrawn from the Credit account and outstanding Special
Commitments amount to SDR 2 million, the borrower my withdraw the amount remaining of US$300,000.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs)
All disbursements are fully documented except for contracts of (i) goods for less than US$100,000
equivalent, (ii) civil works for less than US$100,000 equivalent, (iii) consulting services - firns for less
then US$100,000, (iv) consulting services - individuals for less than US$50,000 equivalent, and (v)
recurrent operating costs which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). This
documentation will be made available for the required audit as well as to the Bank supervision mission, and
will be retained by the E'IU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in
which the last disbursernent was made. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit and Borrower counterpart financing would be managed by the PIU in
coordination and consultation with the Ministry of Finance.
-54 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
ExpohdItre Categofry         Mnount In .$Ulon             Financing Percentage
Works:                                      5.23                          85%
a) rehabilitation ($5.05 m)
b) repair & oper. enhancement
($0.18 m)
Goods                                       0.50           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
85% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consulting Services                         1.64                         100 %
Incremental Operating Costs                 0.13                          90%
Refunding of Project Preparation            0.50            Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02
Advance                                                              of Credit Agreement
Unallocated                                 2.00
Total Project Costs                         10.00     =
Total                                       10.00
- 55 -



Table D
Procurement Pack ging and Plan of Procurement
1               2      13            4                 5            6. Estimated Dates for Contracts
Description    Type'  Number of   Estimate           Procurement  Prepare    Invitatio  Award   Contract
slices/items/    Cost           Method    Tendering   n to Bid Contract Completion
sub-packages
I. Civil Works
Leak Repair       CW         4          700                NCB        Mar 00    Apr 00   Jun 00    Nov 00
Rehab of Wells
and Pumping       CW         1          9,850               ICB       Jun 01     May 01   Aug 01   Aug 02
Stations
Durres Main       CW         1           85                MW         Mar 00    Apr 00   May 00   Oct 00
Misc Small Civil
Works - repair of  CW      Several      240                MW             Throughout the life of the project
distribution
mains, etc
___     _______  _____   II. Goods
Valves, Pipe,
Pumps              G         1          750                ICB        Mar 00    April 00  Jun 00    Aug 00
Misc.              G       Several      475                 IS            Throughout the life of the Project.
Misc.              G       Several       50                 NS            Throughout the life of the Project.
III. Consultant Services and Traiig
Supervision                  1          2,200              QCBS       Dec 99     Jan 00  I Mar 00 I Sep 02
Design            CS                                                           I l _l_l_l_l_l_l
PIU Staff         CS                     110             Individual Consultant contracts throughout the life of the
I ___________ I_ __________I___________I______ _____I________________p roject.
External Audit    Cs         1           30                LCS    |Annual audit due by end of each project FY.
IV. Recurrent Costs
Operational      Other    Various        150     Other Series of small procurements throughout the life of the
Expenses        [      l             l         l ]      project.
Total     l      l .              14,640  l
1 Name of Package of contract.
2 CW of civil works; G for goods; CS for consulting services.
3 Number of slices, major items of sub-packages expected in the package.
4. Expressed in US$ '000.
5. ICB, NCB, IS, NS, (for rrmajor civil works), MW (for minor works), QBCS (for quality and cost based firms, LCS (for least
cost selection of consultant firms), Other (for recurrent costs on the basis of administrative procedures based on acceptable
schedule and budget).
NOTE: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
- 56-



Table E: Summary of Procurement Activities
Section 1: Procurement Review
Civil Works         ICB              NCB               Minor Works
Percenta2e of Credit amount subiect to prior review
Procurement thresholds >S500,000   Less than <$500,000           Less than $ 100.000
Aggregates            $9,850,000            $700,000                           $325,000
Prior review   All packages      All packages             First three packages in each District  90%
Goods               ICB             IS                  NS           Other Methods
Procurement thresholds  >$ 100,000    <Less than $100,000        <Less than $30,000
Aggregate               $750,000             $475,000                   $50,000
Prior Review        All          The first 3 in each City The first 3 in each City   All
90%
Consultants      OBCS             Individual     LCS           Other          Methods
Aggregates      $2,200,000      $110,000       $30,000
Prior Review   All TORs, RFPs, evaluation. reports, and contracts
Expost Review  In-depth review of procurement activities during supervision missions. Yearly financial audits by
acceptable firmn selected competitively.
- 57 -



Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
requirements
With the assistance of a procurement specialist included in the Management Consulting contract, the PIU will
have the capacity to conduct procurement under the proposed Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project. At
the national level, the country has a transparent public procurement system with an independent public
procurement agency. Under the second IDF grant for the procurement institutional development, the Bank
assisted the Government in preparing standard bidding documents, and in providing initial procurement training
to about 500 public officials throughout the country. Nevertheless, the national environment in which the PIU
operates is not conducive to fair and transparent procurement processes. It is, therefore, recommended that
despite the strengths of the PIU, the prior review thresholds indicated above be applied.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) currently is also implementing the Durres Water Supply Rehabilitation
Project and is headed by a Director who is familiar with the Bank procurement requirements. Other staff
include an inexperienced procurement officer and a part time financial specialist. The PIU will be strengthened
by the addition of an engineer and a full time financial specialist. The PIU will be responsible for overall
project management, coordination and planning, including the preparation of the action plan, procurement,
supervision, financial management and reporting. The PrU will report to and coordinate with the Director of
Water and Wastewater in the Ministry of Public Works and Transport. The existing PIU is well equipped.
Included in the Management Consultant Contract will be a international procurement specialist who will assist
the PIU in all aspects Af the procurement process. Additional support will be provided by the Procurement
Accredited Staff person located in the World Bank's Office in Tirana. In addition, included in the TOR for the
Management Consulting Contract will be a financial specialist who will assist the PIU in the procurement and
installation of a financial management system and Procurement Monitoring System which is LACI compliant.
The PIU has maintainad up-to-date project, and procurement records for the Rehabilitation Project and is
expected to do the same for this project. WB Standard bidding documents for goods, works and services will
be used for all procurement.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: CPAR prepared in
March 1997 is scheduled to be undated in January, 2000.
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by negotiations
Yes      No X
Section 3: Training, Infortnation and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop March 2000
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice December 1999
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business - Yes for both civil works and
QCBS assignments
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes: X   No.
Domestic Preference for Works:  Yes:  No: X
Retroactive financing Yes  No  X   Explain:            Advance procurement  Yes      No  X
Explain:
Co-financing: There will be no co-financing apart from the Government of Albania's Contribution of US $ 3.4 million
- 58 -



Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Name: Ronald Isaacson                                     Ext: (355-42  40587) (Tirana)
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Review and approve procurement documentation
and as authorized by the PTL
Note: A detailed procurement Capacity Assessment has not been Completed for the Durres Water Supply and Rehabilitation
Project (DWSRP) at this time. The above comments were based on the procurement capacity assessment of THESECOND
IRRIGATIONANDDRAJNAGEPROJECT(SIDP) in Apri 1999 and discussions with theProject Operations Officer, RM
Tirana and the PIUDirector of the DWSRP. It was determined that the capacity of the DWSRP PIU was slightly less than that
of the SIDP PIU. However, since the procurement andfinancial management will be strengthened by International Specialists,
most all of the civil works will be ICB, the limits above should remain in effect.
- 59-



ASSESSMENT OF THE CAPACITY OF THE
PROJECT IM:PLEMENTATION UNIT (PIU) TO IMPLEMENT PROCUREMENT
Procurement/Contract Management System
ACTION PLAN
Deficiencies/Inadequacies:
The procurement officer who will be responsible for the procurement function, has no previous experience
on World Bank Financecl Projects.
Procurement/Contract M[anagement Action Plan
In order to ensure that the project will have a sound procurement/contract management system capable of
PMR- Based Disbursement, the following time-bound action plan is presented.
Action                                                Deadline     Comrnents
Include training and capacity building procurement for Water
PIU in TORs for consulting services in Project Management    11/17/99
Support Team. (PMST).
Hire PMST (International Procurement Specialist) to start on   01/31/00
the job training of PIU IProcurement Officer.
PMST will prepare formal training plan for PIU Procurement
Officer, including participation of PIU Procurement Officer in  02/29/00
the next available course by ILO, Turin, Italy.
Purchase LACI approved financial management software with
PMS reporting module.                                  01/31/00
- 60-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Proiect Schedule                                   Planned           A_ctal
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              06/01/99                      06/01/99
Appraisal mission departure
Negotiations                                     12/14/99                      12/14/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    03/01/2000
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Peer reviewers: Travers (TWUWS)
Yepes (TWUWS)
Kingdom (TWUWS)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Andreas Rohde                     Task Team Leader, ECSIN
Augusta Dianderas                  Program Team Leader, ECSIN
Arben Bakllamaja                   Project Officer, ECCAL
Ron Isaacson                      Procurement Specialist, ECSHD - Tirana
Takao Ikegami                      Procurement Specialist, ECSIN
Anna Staszewicz                   Financial Management Officer
Sandro Zanus Michiei              Financial Management Specialist, Tirana
Rohit R Mehta                      Senior Disbursement Officer, LOAEL
Ahmed Jehani                       Senior Counsel, LEGEC
Junko Funahashi                   Counsel, LEGEC
Peter W. Whitford                  Senior Environmental Specialist, ECSSD
Rita Cestti                       Water Resource Economist
Harbaksh S. Sethi                 Regional Procurement Advisor
John Hegarty                      Regional Financial Management Advisor
- 61 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back-to-Office and Aide-memoire of 6/30/99 and 8/11/99.
Technical Report about project components by Peter Ware, August, 1999.
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 62-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALBANIA: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                 IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 13
AL-PE-43178     1999 GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA        IRRIG. & DRAINAGE 11                     0.00       24.00         0.00      23.69      0.00       0.00
AL-PE-51309     1999 GOVT. OF ALBANIA             COMMUNITYWORKS                           0.00       14.00        0.00       13.65      0.50       0.00
AL-PE-51310     1999 GOVT. OF ALBANIA             MICROCREDIT                              o.o0       12.00        0.00       11.91      0.00       0.00
AL-PE-55160     1999 GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA        SAC                                      0.00       45.00        0.00       44.43      0.00       0 00
AL-PE-40818     1998 GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA        DURRES PORT                              0.00       17.00        0.00       15.73      6.34       0.00
AL-PE-40975     1998 MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION    LAND DEVELOPMENT                          0.00       10.00        0.00        9.55      0.34       0.00
AL-PE-45312     1998 GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA        HEALTH RECOVERY                          0.00       17.00        0.00       16.47      4.01       0.00
AL-PE-51602     1998 MINISTRY OF FINANCE          PRIVATE INDUSTRY REC                     0.00       10.25        0.0         8.05      8.21       0.00
AL-PE-54384     1998 ALBANIA                      RECOVERY PROG. TA                        0.00        5.00        0.00        3.12      0.99       0.00
AL-PE-34491     1996 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          POWER TRANSM. & DIST                     0.00       29.50        0.00       18.98     16.86       0.o0
AL-PE-35787     1996 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          AGROPROCESSING DEVEL                     0.00        6.00        0.00        1.91      2.23       0.00
AL-PE-36060     1996 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          NATIONAL ROADS                           0.00       25.00        0.00       17.87      9.37       0.00
AL-PE-8271      1996 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          FORESTRY                                 0.00        8.00        0.00        5.07      1.65       0.0o
AL-PE-8253      1995 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA           HEALTH SERVICES REHA                    0.00        12.40       0.00        6.49      6.26       0.00
AL-PE-8267      1995 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          RURAL ROADS                              0.00        15.00       0.00        1.56      2.67       0.00
AL-PE-8270      1995 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          IRRIGATION REHABILIT                     0.00        10.00       0.00        0.06     -1.66       0.00
AL-PE-8273      1995 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          RURAL DEVELOPMENT                        0.00        6.00        0.00        0.42      0.48       0.00
AL-PE-9260      1994 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA           DURRES WATER SUPPLY                     0.00        11.60       0.00        3.60      1.92       0.00
AL-PE-8266      1994 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          HOUSING                                  0.00        15.00       0.00        0.72      0.14       0.13
Total:       0.00      292.75        0.00     203.26      60.31      0.13
Active         Closed
Projects       Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):          90.17          176.67          266.84
of which has been repaid:          0.00            0.00            0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:         302.35          179.37          481.72
Amount sold:          0.00            0.00            0.00
of which repaid:         0.00            0.00            0.00
Total Undisbursed:        203.28            4.32          207.60
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 63 -



ALBANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval        Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998               AAP                              0.00     0.00    28.50    0.00     0.00     0.00     6.38    0.00
1999               FEFAD Bank                       0.00     0.00     1.04    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          0.00     0.00    29.54    0.00     0.00    0.00     6.38     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
- 64 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Europe &                                                   9"17/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Centrit      Low.
Albania      Asia   income        Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                           3.4       473       908                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas mothod, US$,                       810      2,190      1,710
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                          2.7     1,039      1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (t%)                                           0.B       0.1        1/\
Labor force (YO)                                          1.2       0.6        1.S      GNP                               Gross
pe,                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1 992-9S)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of popu/ation below nationa/ povety l/ine)
Urban population (9% oftotalpopulation)                   38         68        58
Lite expectancy at birth (years)                          72         69        68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  26         23        38
Child malnutritlon (I% of children under 5)                ..        ..          .                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (Y. of population)                   76          ..       75
Illiteracy (% of population) age 15.)                      ..         4         14
Gross primary enrollment (%of schoo/-age popuv/aton)     107        100        103                   Albania
Mate                                                   106        101       105                   Low-income group
Female                                                 108         99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS end LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
GDP (tS$ billions)                              ..       2.2       2.3        3.0      Economic rati..^
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                      ..    28.4       16,0       16.0                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP                 ..    15.5       10.5        9.S
Gross domestic savings*GDP                        ..    28.3       -9.1       -6,7
Gross national savings/GDP                        ..       ..       4,0        9,9
Current account balance/GP                        ..      0.2     -12.1       -6.1     /omestic
Interest payments/GOP                             ..      0.0       0.9        0.2      Saoings                      Investment
Total debtGDP                                     ..               30.9       26.9
Total debt service/expons                         ..       ..       7.2        2.2
Present value of debt/GDP                         ..       ..      21.0
Present value of debt/exports                    ..         .      72.0 
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998   1999-03
(avorage annua/ growth)
GOP                                    1.9     -0.5      -7.0       6.0                               Albania
GNP per capia                           ..      6.1      -9.1       6.1         ,.                    Low-income grou,
Exports of goods and services           ..    13.6    -29.5        17.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of ouaput and Investment I/.)
(% of GDP)                                                                              s
Agriculture                                      ..    33.2         56.0      54.4      3w
Industry                                         ..    45.8        23.6       24.9     sen
Manufacturing                                  ..        ..         ..        ..    rw
Services                                         ..    21.0        20.4       21.0       0
Private consumption                              ..    62.0        97.7       96.5    [-100                95 os  97   u
General government consumption                    ..      9.6      11.4       10.2               -     Gi _ DI    'GD
Imports of goods and services                     ..    15.6       35.7       32.2
(average annua/ growth)                    1977-87  1988-98        1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     2.4       5.5        1.0       5.0     3
Industry                                        2.2      -8.4      -5.9       12.2
Manufacturing                                  ..
Services                                        0.6"      0.4"    -24.4'      11.3     rn
Private consumption                              ..      6.1       -9.3       10.1       o
General government consumption                    ..    -3.9      -16.5       -0.6             53   su   ss   ss    5    99
Gross domestic investment                      -0.6      19.9      -4.1       21.0    inn
Imports of goods and services                     ..     16.7     -20.2       16.1             -     Exports      0 mports
Gross national product                           ..       6.5      -6.1        7.1
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 65 -



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1977     1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             .0
Consumer prices                                                    33.2       21.9      20.
Implicit GDP deflator                                              30.8       24.8     us
Go,ernment finance                                                                     40
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                          49.2       16.8      20.3       93      94     95      96      97     99
Current budget balance                                   23.7       -8.6      -5.3             -GOP deflator   "'.CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                  -1.7     -12.6      -10.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millIons)
Total exports (fob)                                      311        167       205      1,00
Minerals and fuels                                                 46         57
Food, beverage, and tobacco                                        18         22      750
Manufactures                                                       99        122
Total imports (fob)                                      316        685       826       soo
Food                                                              164        197      25          *         _ 1
Fuel and energy                                                    71         86
Capital goods                                                      99        120 o
92   93  so   n5  95    7   58
Export price index (1993=100)                    ..
Import price index (1993=100)                                                                    rExporns        Iportn
Terms of trade (1993=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UiS$ millions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio(V.)
Exports of goods and services                            334        239       289 o
Importsofgoodsandservices                                336        816       980      s l 
Resource balance            -                              -2      -577      -691
-20  --
Net income                                                          51        65          r1 
Net current transfers                                               250       440      .00
Current account balance                                    5       -276       -186     40{
Financing items (net)                                      7        303       257         i
Changes in net reserves                                   -12       -27        -71    n60
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..        ..       342       401
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                  ..      8.0      149.6     151.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                         Compositlon of total debt 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                706       820
IBRD                                                                0         0                       G 35
IDA                                                               148       220
Total debt service                                                   39        37
IBRD                                                                0         0
IDA                                                                 1         1         F 271
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                    77        89
Official creditors                                                 46        79                                       C 64
Private creditors                                                  -1         0
Foreign direct investment                                          42        45                                   D 21
Portfolio equity                                                    0         0                        E 209
World Bank program
Commitments                                                        34        54      A - IBRD                       E - Bil(erl
Disbursements                                                      19        64      B - IDA    D - Other multilatera    F - Private
Principal repayments                                                0         0      C - IMF                       G - short-erm
Net flows                                                          19        64
Interest payments                                                   1         1
Net transfers                                                      16        63
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/17/99
- 66 -



Annex 11: Environmental Management Plan - Category B Project
Albania: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Environmental Issues
The project would finance repair and rehabilitation of components of water supply systems. No new
structure of significant size is envisaged to be constructed under the project. Given the nature of the
rehabilitation work to be financed under this project, the project has been classified as Environmental
Category "B". During project preparation, an environmental assessment and environmental management
plan were prepared by the environmental specialist of the project team. The detailed EMP has been
incorporated into the Project Implementation Plan.
The environmental assessment identified the following potential negative impacts of the project: (i)
inappropriate disposal of excavated materials, construction debris, and small quantities of hazardous
wastes related to construction activities (although no hazardous wastes have yet been identified and are
unlikely to occur); and (ii) environmental damage caused by contractors during construction activities.
Since most of the rehabilitation work will be done in properties and facilities owned by water companies
or are located in rights-of-way assigned to municipal infrastructure, the project will not entail any
resettlements and will cause no impacts to structures of cultural importance.
During project implementation, procedures will be introduced to ensure that potential negative impacts as
a result of the project are mitigated. For example, the bidding and contract documents for construction
will describe that the rehabilitation and construction of the structure or other related activities will be
minimized though good construction practices to prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage.
These requirements will be enforced by the supervisors during construction. Also, to avoid extraction of
sand or gravel from river beds, contract documents will require prior approval of the Engineer for the
extraction of sand and gravel for use in construction. Contractors' requests for approval will identify the
location of authorized sand and gravel quarries or borrow areas, and the quantities of materials to be
extracted.
Groundwater extraction will also be monitored during project implementation. Water resources control,
under legislation dated 1996, is the responsibility of the National Water Council, Technical Secretariat of
the Ministry of Public Works. The Technical Secretariat operates in conjunction with the National
Hydrogeological Service. The construction of new wells for Durres would require the permission of the
National Water Council. Preliminary discussions with these Authorities have taken place and it appears
that permission to develop the proposed wells would not present a difficulty, because the existing wells
will be closed and the amount of water extracted will be unchanged. In conjunction with the well
development, test wells would first be constructed and would be test pumped for an extended period.
During this period, chemical and bacteriological analyses of water samples from the wells would be
evaluated to ensure that water quality standards are met. Supervision of this task would be the
responsibility of the PIU which would forward results to the World Bank.
- 67 -



Annex 11: Environmental Category B Project - Management Plan
Albania: Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
Summary of Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation Measures
Item          Potential             Mitigation Measures         Implementation    Monitoring      Timing of
Negative Impact                                       Responsibility   Responsibility   Mitigating
Measures
Excavated      Disposal of       Material to be disposed of in       Contractor       PIU            Provision in
material and    surplus material    accordance with an approved disposal                             the contract
Construction                     plan.                                                               & during
debris.                          Suitable material may be used for                                   construction
construction fill where needed, such as
road construction or site fill.
Hazardous      It is unlikely that   Any such wastes would be disposed of  Contractor  PIU           Provision in
wastes         such wastes       in accordance with an approved                                      the contract
would be          disposal plan to be formatted when the                              & during
encountered       type and quantity of waste is known                                 construction
Environmental  Damage caused    Contract documents would provide for  Contractor      PIU            During
Damage         by rehabilitation   the use of acceptable engineering                                 construction
or construction   practice that prevent or minimize
potential damage
Sources of     Damage to river    Sources of rock, gravel and sand   Contractor       PIU            Provision in
rock, gravel    courses, public  would require contractors to obtain                                 the contract
and sand.      land and beaches   written authorization by the Engineer                              & during
to the use of identified sources of                                 construction
these materials.
Water courses   Sedimentation    Contractors would be required to    Contractor       PIU            Provision in
during            provide sediment barriers where                                    the contract
construction      needed to prevent transport sediment                                & during
to adjacent properties and water                                    construction
courses.
Water          Deprivation of a    Prior to use of a specific water source,  Task manager  PIU       Provision in
Resources      water resource to   written permission by the National                                the contract
Allocation     other users or    Water Council, of the Ministry of                                   & during
potential users   Public Works to be obtained.                                        construction
Health Aspects  Development of a  Complete extensive water sampling  Contractor       PIU            Prior to
of New         source of water    and analyses to examine chemical and                               construction
Sources of     with unacceptable  bacteriological quality of the water                               of facility
Water          water quality.    prior to construction of facilities.
Archeology     Disturbance of    Construction work to be halted if a  Contractor      PIU            Provision in
undiscovered sites  discovery is made. Appropriate                                   the contract
authorities to be consulted.                                        & during
construction
- 68 -



Item           Potential            Mitigation Measures         Implementati    Monitoring       Timing of
Negative Impact                                          on         Responsibility    Mitigating
Responsibility                  Measures
Underground      Damage resulting   Contractor required to contact local   Contractor  PIU           Prior to
Utilities        in interruption of   utilities prior to excavations.                                excavation
service
Socio-economics  Influx of         Employ local population to the extent Contractor  PIU             Provision in
construction work  possible.                                                       the contract
force to area     Contractor to provide on-site     Contractor     PIU              & during
accommodation if practicable                                      construction
Municipality and utility authorities to  Municipality    PIU
ensure availability of necessary  and utility
services                          authorities
Noise            Disturbance       Construction limited to normal day    Contractor  PIU             Provision in
during            time working hours (0700 to 1800) if                             the contract
construction      within 100 meters of residences                                   & during
construction
Disturbance       Noise control devices to be installed   Contractor  PIU           Provision in
during facility  in buildings if needed                                             the contract
operation                                                                           & during
construction
Air pollution    Odors from plant   Plant to operate efficiently to   Contractor     PIU             Provision in
operation.        minimize exhaust emissions.                                      the contract
& during
construction
Dust caused by    Water spray down to minimize air  Contractor     PIU              Provision in
construction      borne dust where necessary                                        the contract
& during
construction
- 69 -






IBRD 28467R
'  18-30'   J19'00'                                     19-30'                    20'00'                     20'30                     21 0)'
( n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FED.    REP   OF   YUGO)SLAVIA
CROATIA I                                                                                         (t\r>SERBIA  MOINTENEGRO)
-42030'                 \                                                                      J       ,r-t42 '0-]
ALBANIA                                                     >                                         t~~~~~~~~~~~
O    SELECTD CITIE                 ..     '      Hr \>t4,t           t    ^  S  ,  `* 
42-00IES                                                                                                                           uheKg                            J;.' 7t.  (0]
-  DISTRICT BOUNTERIS           X                      hiing, rrl in*  '  
~   NENATIONALBOUNAPITAL                                L UE,\,:.*,
41 30 ELEV~ATIONAL ^ETROADURS ii\F,R4 0
RAILROADS4RAF,D 
4   *I'GO   4!  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
ELEVATION IN MEES                                             DbWS                                                                  F. 'R.T*11 ,,
'U GER~~~~~~~~~~~~MANYE|DOLND .,StEo ;tM\k\5}IA
.#3LUX y ~~ s > j1200'                                                              I- JROAS ff   % av >i
2  ?     CEH    \                 KRIN                                          <      Q1rl   A}ED        N     d-20.0    b.
,i .   X   r o959 Rt:_   Nf                                              >     t. 'S!, \} &|;rU?Dur56N
/8WIZ2'>-~ *tODtV - 0 0   oo-
r   CSCROATIA A  <  ROMANIA    <                                  ,.t + _DNttVirtN-     RA' H6
< H(FEDO5EP}--'                                             Sor?ndg\                                e?REEt,            !~K  J
ITALY \, ISER5/MONT*( ~~~~~~~~~~BULARA.._../- i4   L;'~ 
41 ~   ~      ~      ,c9 _00                                                                                                                          41 ,  0-3Xj{;T R'
ALEANIApy   e                                          - - ! ,>  1 . .       v~L NJ
GREECE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Xj                                                -                          TRKY. [(J
_   ,g   ?    .                                                                                    ,                         X, 00 j~~~~~~~~~~~RASH
uc~~~                                                  ,,; O



