Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1868 1-MOZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 5 1.1 MILLION SDR
(US$ 71 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGIC PROGRAM (ESSP)
JANUARY 22, 1999
Human Development 1
Country Department 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(30 November 1998)
Currency Unit          =      Meticais
US$ 1.00              =      M  11,655
SDR 1.0                     US$1.38621
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                   African Development Bank
BM                    Banco de Mocambique (Bank of Mozambique)
CC                    Conselho Consultivo do Ministdrio (Consultative Council of the
Ministry)
CIDA                  Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA                Danish International Development Agency
ERC                   Economic Recovery Credit
ERP                   Economic Rehabilitation Program
ESAF                  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESRP                  Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program
ESSP                  Education Sector Strategic Program
EU                    European Union
FINNIDA               Finnish International Development Agency
GER                   Gross Enrollment Rate
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
HIPC                  Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IAP                   Instituto de Aperfeicoamento do Professor
(Teacher In-service Training Institute)
IDA                   International Development Association
IMAP                  Instituto de Magisterio Primario (Teacher Training Institute)
INDE                  Instituto National do Desenvolvimento de Educacao
(Institute for the Development of Education)
NEPS                  National Education Policy and Strategy
MAE                    Ministerio da Administracao Estatal (Ministry of State
Administration)
MINED                 Ministerio da Educacao (Ministry of Education)
MTEF                  Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MPF                    Ministerio do Piano e Financas (Ministry of Planning and Finance)
PIP                    Project Implementation Plan
SIDA                   Swedish International Development Agency
SNAAD                 System for the Non-Administrative Allocation of Foreign
Exchange
UEM                   Universidadc Eduardo Mondlane (Eduardo Mondlane University)
WFP                   World Food Program
ZIP                   Zona de Influencia Pedagogica (Pedagogical Support Zone)
Vice President                   Callisto Madavo
Sector Manager                   Ruth Kagia
Country Director                 Phyllis Pomerantz
Task Team Leader                 Donald B. Hamilton



Mozambique
Education Sector Strategic Program
Table of Contents
A. PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE    .   .. . .                                                                      .                                   ..
1. Background and introduction ......................................                                                                             1
2. Program    development objective ................................2 .................................2
3. Key outcome and performance indicators                                               ..................................... 2
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT                                                                                                                              ..           3
1. Sector-related  CAS  goal supported  by  the  program                                                             .....................................   3
2. Main  sector issues  and  Government strategy                                                                             .......................... 3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program  and strategic choices ......8............8
C. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION SUMMARY                                                                                     .9
1. Program   components ........................................................                                                                 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program    ....................... 12
3. Benefits  and  target population  ...................                                .....................................                   13
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .............................I.................. 14
D   PROGRAM RATIONALE .................2.................. .............    .. .... 20
1. Program  alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................ _.. 20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies .. 21
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in  program   design ...... ......... ............................. 22
4. Indications  of borrower commitment and  ownership  ......................                                               .................. 24
S. Value  added  of Bank  support in  this program   ..........................................   ....... 24
E: SUMMARY PROGRAM ANALYSIS ..                                                                                                                    ..5
1. Economic  and  financial.                                       ....................................................... 25
2. Technical .......................................................                                                                           28
3. Institutional ..................................................                                                                     ...... 29
4. Social .......................................................                                                                              30
5. Environmental assessment ....................................................... 30
6. Participatory  approach  ....................................................... 30
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS                                                                                                                                . 31
1. Sustainability .......................................................                                                                      31
2. Critical risks ....................................................... 32
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDI'InIONS .. 34
1. Conditions  of effectiveness .................                                     ................................. .                ... 34
2. Other conditions .......................................................                                                                    34
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEIMEINTAIION                                                   ... 35
I.    COMPLIANCE  WIT-I BANK    POLICIEs  .........................O..S.............................................. 35



Annexes
Figure 1      Structure of the Education System
Annex 1.      Program Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Program Description
Annex 3.      Program Cost
Annex 4.      Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 5.      Financial Management
Annex 6.      Procurement and Implementation Arrangements
Annex 7.      Program Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Status of Bank Group Operations in Mozambique
Annex 1O.    Mozambique at a Glance
Annex 11      Curriculum Development
Annex 12.    Institutional Development
Annex 13.    School Construction
Annex 14.     Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 15.     Summary of Environmental Assessment
Annex 16.    Teacher Training
Map - IBRD Reference Number 30047



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Africa Region
Country Department 2
Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Date: January 22, 1999                          Task Team Leader: Donald Hamilton
Director: Phyllis Pomerantz                     Sector Manager. Ruth Kagia
Project ID: 1786       Sector: Education        Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Program   Program of Targeted            [XI   Yes    No
Credit                                        Intervention:
Project Financing                   [I Loan   [x ] Credit    [ I Guarantee    I I Other [Specify] HIPC/Grant
Data
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ m/SDRm): US$ 71 million/SDR 51.1 million
Proposed terms:                        [x   Multicurrency    X 1  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10       H   Standard          I l  Fixed          [ I LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Program (US$ m):
Source                                                     Total
Government                                                                      444.6
Cofinanciers                                                                    118.8
IDA Credit                                                                       71.0
NGOs                                                                             30.0
Community Contribution (in cash or in kind)                                       5.0
Contingencies                                                                    47.8
Total                                717.2
Borrower: Government of Mozambique
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Education (MINED)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$ M):                1999  2000   2001   2002  2003
Annual                   1.0  11.0   20.0   21.0  18.0
Cumulative                  1.0  12.0   32.0   53.0  71.0
For Guarantees: NA                               I Partial          l ] Partial risk
credit
Program implementation period: 1999-2003  Expected effectiveness date: 6/1/99  Expected closing date: 06/30/04



A. PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Background and introduction
After two decades of civil strife and economic stagnation, Mozambique is experiencing rapid economic
growth. Following the peace agreement in 1992 and the liberalization of the economy, growth has averaged
about 10% annually over the past three years, peaking at 12.4% in 1997. The prospects for continued
sustained economic growth are good, given Mozambique's relatively untapped natural resources in
agriculture, energy, and tourism. Currently only about 10% of agricultural land is under cultivation,
although about 75% of the labor force is in the agriculture sector. In addition, the current increase in
foreign direct investment and the country's favorable geographical location offer a window of opportunity
for the Mozambican people.
Despite these favorable circumstances, Mozambique is still one of the poorest countries in the world
(estimated per capita GDP for 1998 was US$ 140), and long-term economic growth and investments are
threatened by the low level of education and skills of the population. This is fully recognized in
Mozambique, and various governments since independence have given high priority to the development of
education. Following independence in 1975, the education system expanded rapidly, and the gross
admission rate into lower primary education surpassed 100% during the 1978-1980 period. These
achievements were possible because of the strong demand for education, which was met through a
combination of public investment and community efforts. These gains, however, were quickly eroded
during the civil war that followed almost immediately after independence, when over 3,400 schools wcre
destroyed or closed. Approximately 58% of the lower primary school network and over 1.3 million pupils
were affected by the war between 1983 and 1991.
After the 1992 peace agreement the Government, again with the collaboration of communities, moved
quickly to improve education services. Enrollment in primary cducation has increased sharply over the past
five years, partly as a result of the rapid expansion in the number of primary school classrooms, mostly
built by rural communities. Despite serious weaknesses, the quality of education also began to improve
when resources shifted to school inputs and school schedules returned to normal. Now the Government is
addressing the wide disparities between rural and urban areas and among regions by gradually shifting the
allocation of resources, increasing gender sensitivity, and decentralizing education management and budget
allocations.
The Government is determined to continue its efforts to dcvelop the education system for two key reasons.
First, higher education levels will improve prospects for long-term growth. Increasing the number and
quality of primary school graduates will increase productivity in agriculturc and other sectors, improve
social indicators, and provide the well-documented positive externalities associated with education for girls.
The expansion of secondary education will provide middle level personnel, as well as qualified candidates
for further education and training, and thus gradually raise the low level of education and skills of the labor
force. Second, in addition to promoting cconomic growth (a prcrequisite for poverty reduction), broadly
based basic education will specifically help the poorer scgmcnts of society. Equitable expansion of the
education system will provide a wider segment of the population with the foundation necessary to
participate in the expanding economic opportunities in Mozambique, and it will thus help to consolidate
peace and democracy.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                Page 2
In 1997 the Government translated its broad goals into a comprehensive Education Sector Strategic
Program (ESSP), which sets forth objectives, activities and resource requirements for the sector. This plan
was prepared by the Government in collaboration with donors, civil society and agencies/institutions in the
education sector. During the assessment of the plan in May, 1998, Government and donors agreed to
commit all future funds for the education sector, for 1999-2003 within the context of the ESSP, which will
guide the process of decentralization of MINED, as well as the nature of donor support to the sector The
proposed operation would be IDA's contribution to the financing of the ESSP. The ESSP is seen as a
rolling plan to be revised annually. The plan is complemented by the development of a Medium Term
Expenditure Framework to ensure that intemal financing is adequate and to assess the magnitude of
external funding. This will be updated annually.
2. Program development objective
The objective of the ESSP is to provide increased and equitable access to higher quality education
through improvement in the management of education in order to promote economic and social
development inMozambique. IDA funding would initially support the implementation of ESSP activities
related to primary and secondary education and the strategic planning for other sub-sectors. The
Government has yet to finalize a revised strategic framework for the dcvelopment of technical and
vocational education, adult literacy, and higher education. After the strategy is prepared, the Government
and donors will discuss specific plans for the development and integration of these sub-sectors into the
program.
3. Key outcome and performance indicators
Program outcome indicators agreed with MINED to be achieved between 1999 and 2003 include the
following:
1. Increased proportion of students passing key primarv and lower secondary examinations:
(i) Grade 5 from 54% to 75%; (ii) Grade 7 from 37% to 60%; (iii) Gradc 10 from 33% to 55%.
2. A reduction in the average repetition by half for primary and lower secondary education.
3. An increase in gross enrollment rates: (i) Grades 1-5 from 67% to 86%; (ii) Grades 6-7 from 15%
to 30%.
4. An increase in enrollment in the schools and districts where classrooms are built, equivalent
to at least 75% of the new capacity created.
5. Implementation of at least 80% of the work program for each year, measured by the physical
targets and the budget spent for program and routine activities.
6. Achievement of the agreed rate of decentralization of management to the provinces and districts, as
defined in the schedule to be included in the Program Implementation Manual (PIM).
These indicators have been selected based on the availability of relevant data, and consistency with the
ESSP, to promote a common approach among donors. With reference to the end-of-cycle examinations,
they are currently the best indicator of student achievement and quality, although they need to be improved.
The internal efficiency targets are a bit ambitious given the conditions in Mozambique. However, many of



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                  Page 3
the reasons for low internal efficiency, such as incomplete schools, poor physical facilities in community
built schools, inadequate teacher support, and limited community involvement in management of schools,
can be improved fairly rapidly by the proposed program interventions. These in turn will help change the
attitudes of teachers and parents with respect to repetition and drop-out.
Program Performance Monitoring will be carried out using a Program Monitoring Reporting (PMR)
system to be introduced during the first 12 months of program implementation. This svstem will link
expenditures, outputs and schedule of implementation, including procurement, for each component at
quarterly intervals.
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the program
CAS document number: 17180   Date of latest CAS discussion: December 18. 1997
The Bank's CAS supports the Government's objective of reducing poverty through (a) promoting rapid,
broad-based private sector led growth, (b) capacity building and developing human resourccs; and (c)
strengthening development partnerships. As a contribution to reaching the CAS goal of "capacity building
and developing human resources," the proposed program will support the expansion of basic education
services while improving quality.
The program will improve the learning achievements and levels of attainment of Mozambican childrcn,
including those from the most vulnerable groups and underserved regions. It will also enhance
productivity, income and capacity in later life by providing the basis for further education and training.
Bringing education closer to parents and the commnunity means that the management skills of local
education officials and communities will be upgraded, and that accountability, relevance and learning
outcomes will be enhanced. Upgrading of these skills in the communities will enhance their performance in
other areas. In addition, by raising the educational level of children and families, the program will improve
their quality of life and help decrease child morbidity, child mortality, and fertility rates.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
The accelerating national effort in education since the end of the war has demonstrated strong public and
private sector commitment to education. Mozambique has begun moving beyond the period of massive
disruption in regular school activities, when programs and institutions deteriorated or simply halted their
operations. The Government aims to energize communities by helping them to organize and coordinate
their efforts in establishing schools and improving education services. In this changing environment, the
Government will need to address the following major issues of the sector.
(a) Low quality ofprimary and secondary education. The Government, donors and civil society at large
are optimistic that schools will gradually build on recent gains. But low quality continues to constrain the
efficiency of the system and limit the number of well-qualified students graduating from each level. Only
54% and 37% of students pass the grade 5 and grade 7 examinations, respectively. Although improving,
internal inefficiency remains apparent in high repetition and dropout rates and low completion rates.
Barely 25% of students who enter the first grade successfully complete the five grades of lower primary,
and only 7% of the cohort complete grade 5 without repeating. Even those students who manage to stay in
school are not learning enough because inadequate, bare facilities do not create a classroom environment
conducive to learning, and multiple shifts reduce learning time. The number of learning hours per pupil per



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                    Page 4
year has decreased by about 30% (from 850 to 595 hours) in lower primary education in recent years in
some schools because of the way double and triple shift are implemented. This is lower than the modest
780 hours recommended by UNESCO. The system's inefficiencv reflects several weaknesses, discussed
below:
i) The teachingforce is not well trained or supported, especially in rural areas where it is difficult to
assign and retain teachers. About a quarter of all teachers in lower primary schools are untrained, and
another 40% have only six years of schooling and one year of professional training Teachers need
more pedagogical support as well as training to build their confidence and skills
(ii) The curriculum is inadequate to meet students' needs and lacks relevance for Mozambicans who
live in rural areas. The Government is merging lower (grades 1-5) and upper (grades 6-7) prriary
schools, and the system also needs a single integrated, unified curriculum that allows students to
progress at an uninterrupted pace.
(iii) Textbooks and learning materials are provided in insufficient quantities. Although the
Government has made steady progress in procuring increased numbers of books in recent years.
successful distribution of books to all schools is yet to be achieved. This is being addressed through
decentralization of distribution to the districts To ensure a steady supply of textbooks in the medium
term, the Government plans to commercialize the publication of textbooks over time.
(iv) Assessment of students in the classroom and through end-of-cycle examinations is inadequatc and
often arbitrary, and as a result many pupils graduate from the system without being properly qualificd.
The Government is introducing a system that allows for longer "cycles of leaming" than a single year
can provide, and is working on examinations reformn.
(v) Centralized control over resources has resulted in inadequate supplies to the classroom and
hinders involvement and ownership by local education providers and communities. Individual school
leaders are eager to assume more responsibility but lack the skills to do this well.
(b) Limited and inequitable access to primary and secondary education. The trend and momentum in
school enrollment are positive. The gross enrollment rate (GER) for lower primary increased from 54% to
67% between 1992 and 1997, and for upper primary from 14.4% to 16%.- Nevertheless, primary school
enrollment rates remain well below those achieved in the years after independence. Enrollments in
secondary school have risen, from 34,000 students in 1994 to about 52,000 in 1997. Despite these gains,
the school population distribution is wide at the bottom with about 1.7 million children in lower primary
education (grades 1-5), and narrow in the middle and top, with only 11,000 in upper secondary education
(grades 11-12), and only about 7,000 students enrolled in tertiary education institutions as illustrated in the
Figure below.
. The population estimates underlying these figures are extrapolations from the 1980 Census. Preliminary results
from the 1997 Census indicate that population figures are significantly lower than current estimates, hence,
school enrollment rates may be higher than those presented here.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                          Page 5
Figure:        Enrollment Distribution by Level of Education - 1997
I Trtiar-
lISG2 (r.r I 1 12)
I }SGil (g,r 8-() 10) - 
l112 (gr 6-7)
I ~gr.                     ...  . ...
|   ()      5))((i          ()()().000OVU  .50().000  2.000.000
E ti rol I n c it
Source: MOE Statistics 1997.
Access to education is particularly restricted for certain groups. The colonial school network favored
urban rather than rural areas, southern rather than central and northern regions. and coastal rather than
interior areas. For example. the primary education enrollment rates of the three southern provinces of
lnhambanie. Gaza. and Maputo are about 50% higher than the average for the central and northern
provinces. A 1996/97 national household survec (IAF) found that in villages without schools, the main
reason the poorest rural households did not send children to a primary school was that the school was too
far away. There are several key issues related to equitable access:
(i) The main issue is an inadequate number of school places. thus either preventing children from
enterinig into the school system or for about 30% of the children, enrolling them into "incomplete
schools" with Iess than five grades Also. while the school population was rising steadily, about 58%
of the school network was destroyed during the war. The Government's priority is to rebuild the
syvstcm and increase the number of school places.
(ii) In addition to expanding the school system. the Govemment will also have to increase the size of
the teaching fbrce. particularly qualified teachers. as enrollment expands. Average pupil-teacher ratios
are already high: in lower primary it is 61 1.
(iii) Though private education. has grown by more than 500% over the past years, its coverage
nationally is very low (about 2% in 1995) and is concentrated mainly in urban areas. The private
sector continues to face difficulties in mobilizing investment funds. In view of this, the Government
proposes to help communities become more efficient in collecting and using their resources for
educational development.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                    Page 6
(iv) Girls are less likely to attend and finish school than boys. In 1997, girls accounted for about 41%
of the 1.9 million pupils enrolled in lower and upper primary schools. In lower and upper secondary,
girls represented about 40% and 35% of the students, respectivelv. The problem is particularly acute
in the northern and central provinces and among the poorest families.
(v) Enrollment in nonformal education has collapsed. Although the number of people attending
literacy classes exceeded 415,000 in 1980, it had dropped to 27,000 by 1995. This decline was due not
only to the war, but also to the rigid formality of the programs and the use of Portuguese as the
teaching medium. Only 15% of poor rural women can read and write
(vi) Students with special needs are largely left out of the system, a problem the Government is now
addressing. The ctvil war left many children handicapped bv mines and other weapons of war.
Children with learning disabilities need special attention.
(c) Low institutional capacity for education system management. Thc historically centralized
management of education is no longer capablc of efficientlv delivering education to the whole country The
Government is therefore decentralizing functions and has made capacity building in strategic planning and
management at all levels a national priority Towards this end MINED has, over the last three to four
years, been implementing an overall institutlon building program. There are four main issues related to
MINED's institutional capacity:
(i) MINED's organizational structure and management system is weak. The central MINED units,
provincial and district authorities, schools and communities are not yet ready to assume new
responsibilities. Roles and job duties are not clearly defined, management skills are weak, although
the Ministry is now developing a svstematic human resources development program. The MINED
program is addressing these problems through upgrading staff levels at the center and in the provinces
and districts, as well as introducing a new svstem for human resource management.
(ii) The Ministry's capacity for policy and planning at the center has improved substantially over the
last few years, and played a major role in the preparation of the ESSP. However, this capability has
not yet been developed in the provinces and districts. Rural districts and individual schools need the
capacity to efficiently collect, analyze and use data and better integrate into MINED's planning process
a system for the exchange of information. This is likely to be facilitated by increasing computerization
of planning functions which will also be reinforced under the program.
(iii) The system offinancial management, which is mainly manual, is out-of-date and staff skills need
to be upgraded to support crucial functions, especially those that are to be decentralized. MINED staff
at all levels, especially those at the provincial, district and school levels need training in program
budgeting, accounting, computerized information systems, and procurement. A training program is
being prepared for about 16 recently recruited staff who will be deployed to carry out administrative
and financial functions in the provinces.
(iv) MINED does not have an adequate system of monitoring and evaluation to track the progress of
its massive effort to improve education, despite the recent introduction of annual work-program
preparation based on inputs from the provinces and annual reviews to evaluate progress. The proposed
implementation structure for the ESSP, including the requirements for consultations and reporting, will
provide an effective framework for getting feedback on implementation. This will help steer the course



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                    Page 7
of policies and programs. Results from this process will be further enhanced by upgrading and training
of staff.
(d) Non-responsive technical and vocational education. The system of technical and vocational
education is too closely tied to the public service and is not responsive to the needs of the private sector.
The Government is eager to modernize these schools and make them more dynamic in reacting to the needs
of the labor market, but development of policies and programs is yet to be completed.
(e) Inefficient higher education. The internal efficiency of post-secondarv institutions is low. Relatively
few students complete their academic programs each year. and few women enroll in these institutions
(female students are about 25% of total enrolments). A strategy for higher education needs to encompass
both private and public institutions within the framework of the ESSP.
l;) Inadequatefunding and inefficient allocation of resources. Per pupil spending in Mozambique
(US$14) is below most other low enrollment countries and well below the sub-Saharan Africa average of
about US$70. This is partly due to the wide use of double and triple shifts in schools, which lowers unit
costs. As stated earlier, schools operating on a shift schedule allow only 3 hours a day per class, lower
than the recommended average. This practice has limited how much children can learn, leading to low
internal efficiency. The high direct and opportunity costs facing parents under these circumstances,
particularly the poorest, have led to low attainmcnt levels, high dropout rates and high wastage of resources
in the system.
Government Strategy
The broad issues described above provide the justification for Government strategy and related projects and
programs. In 1995 the Mozambique Assembly of the Republic (Parliament) approved the National
Education Policy and Strategies for Implementation (NEPS), which formed the basis of the Education
Sector Strategic Plan. The priorities of the NEPS are to move toward universal primary education and
gradually eliminate illiteracy. The Government also recognizes the need to develop a strong secondary
education system to provide workers for the labor market and candidates for further education and training,
including teacher training.
(a) According to the NEPS, the Government aims to improve the quality of education by:
(i) developing relevant and feasible schemes for pre- and in-service training of teachers;
(ii) developing other forms of incentives for the teaching profession, which aim at uplifting the
motivation and morale of teachers, particularly by creating improved working conditions;
(iii) combating school failure through curricular changes which aim at making the curriculum more
relevant and flexible;
(iv) increasing efforts to ensure that school books are provided to all students;
(v) stimulating the involvement of private companies in the production and sale of school materials;
and
(vi) establishing an efficient staff of inspectors and pedagogical supervisors.
(b) MINED's strategy is also to expand access and equity by:
(i) expanding the network of institutions and providing financial and material assistance to the poor;
(ii) the promotion of increased participation of women,



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                    Page 8
(iii) the integration into the education system of children who are in difficult circumstances and
children with learning difficulties;
(iv) supporting initiatives by private entities and other social forces which aim at expanding the
network of educational institutions of any type and level; and
(v) supporting the expansion of the school network through distance learning.
(c)    To meet its other goals, MINED will enhance education system management bv strengthening the
system and its institutional capacity by creating local technical and administrative abilities in order to
gradually introduce a process of administrative decentralization to the local power structure and to increase
the intervention of the community in the decision-making process in the school.
(d)    On the issue of technical and vocational education, MINED will adapt technical and professional
education to the developmental requirements of the country. by carrying out studies and implementing
measures and programs aimed at restructuring this level of education to support further development and
privatization of the economy.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices
Program coverage. The ESSP is based on a sector-wide conceptual framework which includes technical
education and vocational training as well as higher education, with priority given to basic education.
However, because of the sizeable nature of the task to develop investment programs for all sub-sectors
concurrently, the decision was made to first complete the programs for basic education. The investment
program for technical education and vocational training is expected to be completed in the first half of
1999. IDA funding in this operation will therefore be related mostly to basic education and development of
strategies for the other sub-sectors. When the strategies for the remaining sub-sectors are ready, the Sector
Investment Program (SIP) would be broadened to integrate programs for these sub-sectors.
Option to expand upper primary education separately. Upper primary schools (grades 6 and 7) are
usually separate schools where teaching is done by subject specialist teachers. Expanding the second cycle
of primary education as currently designed would have resulted in high costs for opening schools and hiring
teachers who may not be fully utilized. Therefore this was rejected in favor of MINED's proposal to unify
the two cycles by adding grades 6 and 7 to lower primary schools. The teacher training program for the
integrated primary education (for grade 10 graduates) would require teachers to specialize in more than one
subject for grades 6 and 7, and these teachers would also be qualified to teach from grades 1-7. This
system will also make it easier for grade 5 graduates to continue to grades 6 and 7.
Cycles of learning. To improve the internal efficiency and unclog the system at the primary level, the
option of introducing automatic promotion was considered. This was rejected because a low-quality
system with poorly qualified teachers, many with limited commitment, would provide no checks on student
achievement. However, to reduce the burden of excessive examination, a new system will be introduced to
assess student achievement at specific points. This change will organize the school system according to
cycles of learning instead of grades to permit a better timeframe for curriculum development and learning
outcomes.
Primary school construction. The possibility of using large contractors for school construction was
considered and rejected because of the difficulty in attracting these contractors to work in areas far from
the main towns and the very high costs incurred when they do so. The community approach to construction



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                  Page 9
is more promising as it has been successful in many areas and it helps promote ownership and infusion of
resources in the communities.
C. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Program components
(see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
The program's components cover the quality of education, access to education, and MINED's institutional
development. The Government has already begun implementation with assistance from donors. The
components of the entire ESSP program, funded by Govemment and donors, are described below. Sub-
components that IDA will fund are noted in the summary cost table (p.1 1).
(a) Quality of education. To improve the quality of education, the ESSP will support the following sub-
components:
(i) 7eacher training-expand enrollment of pre-service teacher training programs by constructing 5
IMAPs (Teacher Training Institute), upgrading 15,000 underqualified teachers, and by running in-
service training programs through distance education in areas of special need.
(ii) Pedagogical support for teachers-revitalize the network of ZIPs (teacher support zones or
clusters) as the basis for providing pedagogical support to new, serving and untrained teachers,
support supervision and school inspection services, and promote school community relations (840
ZIPS revitalized in the first phase).
(iii) Curriculum transformation-transform the curriculum: to reflect the integration of the first and
second cycles of primary education (grades I to 7), to integrate covered materials across grades and
subjects, to promote values that will support democracy and national reconciliation, and to make the
curriculum more sensitive to national culture and regional diversity.
(iv) Learning materials-supply about 43 million textbooks and other teaching materials, improve
book distribution, and develop commercial publishing of textbooks.
(v) Assessment and examinations-improve classroom assessment practices and end-of-cycle
examinations and gradually introduce an assessment system to monitor the quality of the education
system.
(vi) Direct support for schools-create a School Quality Improvement Fund to provide grants for
quality improvements directly to schools to underpin the decentralization of resource administration.
(vii) School director training-finance the provincial-level training of over 6,000 school directors in
education and school management, including accounting, supervision of teachers, data collection and
use, and school-community relations.
(b) Access to education. To increase access and improve equity in the distribution of school places, the
ESSP will support the following sub-components:



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                 Page 10
(i) School and classroom construction and rehabilitation-expand the number of places in primary
schools by building and rehabilitating about 12,000 classrooms and related school facilities partly
through a low-cost community building program. These facilities will also include water supply and
sanitary facilities. Secondary schools would be expanded through construction of 25 ESG I and 4
ESG2 schools.
(1i) Girls education initiatives-reduce the direct and opportunity costs of education in part by
providing 22,000 scholarships to girls; creating a more gender-sensitive school curriculum and
environment; and by promoting community awareness about the benefits of girls' education.
(iii) Non-formal education - complete and implement a strategy for expanding non-formal education,
including literacy training for girls, school drop-outs. and adults.
(iv) Special education (SL) develop and test a model for providing education to children with special
needs in 4 schools, develop training programs and teaching tools for special education teachers,
rehabilitate 11 SE schools and construct 3 new SE schools.
(c) MINED institutional capacity. To strengthen management capacities, the ESSP will fund the
following sub-components:
(i) Organizational structure and decentralization build capacity to coordinate ESSP
implementation and further expand organizational development and training at all levels to improve the
effectiveness of delivery of education.
(ii) Policy and planning-- strengthen the central, provincial and district ability to plan and develop
policies and programs.
(iii) Financial management-- establish an improved financial and procurement management system,
through training, and computerized record keeping at all levels.
(iv) Monitoring and evaluation-strengthen the information systems and processes used for monitoring
and evaluation, including the establishment of the PMR.
Implementation of this component will be flexible and based on improved practices, better allocation and
use of resources and realistic scheduling of activities.
(d) Technical and vocational education strategy. The ESSP includes estimates of expenditures (US$ 42
million) for developing and operating the technical and vocational system during the program period.
These are indicative figures from donors who would be willing to invest in the sector once a strategic plan
for the sub-sector has been agreed.
(e) Higher Education. The immediate priorities for higher education are to enhance quality and efficiency,
because of the currently tight labor market for university graduates and the low intemal efficiency of the
sub-sector. In order to develop appropriate strategic plans for quality improvement, and gradual
expansion/diversification to match the needs of an expanding economy, higher education will be included in
the study of costs and financing of education planned for early in 1999.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                   Page 11
Program Cost Summary by Component
l                                                           % Total        IDA
Base Costs    Base       Funding
(US$ '000)    Costs    (US$ '000)*
A. Quality of Education
A. 1. Teacher Training                          24,700.9        4         6,000.0
A.2. Pedagogical Support for Tcachers           17,699.4        3         6,150.0
A.3. Curriculum Transformation                   7,071.0         1         1,000.0
A.4. Learning Materials                         39,896.3        6         6,450.0
A.5. Assessment & Examinations                   2,369.0         -          300.0
A.6. Direct Support for Schools                 13,640.8        2         4,950.0
A.7. Training of School Directors                3,125.7         -          950.0
Subtotal Quality of Education                    108,503.1       16        25,800.0
B. Access to Education
B. l. School Construction & Rehabilitation     177,225.2       27         31,800.0
B.2. Girls Education Initiatives                 8,938.6         1        4,350.0
B.3. Nonformal Education                         5,511.3         1          250.0
B.4. Special Education                           1,639.1         -              -
Subtotal Access to Education                     193,314.2      29         36,400.0
C. MINED Institutional Capacity
C. . Organizational Structure & Decentralization  318,532.9    49         4,100.0
C.2. Policy & Planning                           1,619.0         -         1,000.0
C.3. Financial Management                        3,085.9         -        2,200.0
C.4. Monitoring and Evaluation                   2,200.0         -         1,000.0
Subtotal MINED Institutional Capacity           325,437.8       49          8,300.0
D. Voc/Tech Education Strategy
D. 1. Vocational/Technical Education            42,111.2        6           500.0
Subtotal Voc/Tech Education Strategy             42,111.2         6          500.0
Total Baseline Costs                             669,366.2      100
Physical Contingencies                          20,720.9
Price Contingencies                             27,081.7
Total                                            717,168.8                 71,000.0
*IDA funding (rounded) includes contingencies.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                   Page 12
The estimated cost of the ESSP including contingencies is US$717.2 million. As a comprehensive plan for
the sector, the ESSP includes the costs of salaries (US$293) and other recurrent costs including operation
and maintenance. Of total costs, the Government would finance an estimated US$ 444.6 million, NGOs
US$ 30.0 million, communities (in kind or in cash) US$ 5.0 million, IDA US$ 71 million, and other donors
US$ 118.8 million. IDA will maintain a presence in strategic components, as shown in the preceding table.
IDA will finance core activities in the sector that would ensure that progress is being made in the core areas
while other donors finalize their programs. These activities would consist of: quality of education
(US$ 25.8 million). pre-and in-service teacher training. pedagogical support for teachers, curriculum
tran.sformation, learning materials, examinations and assessment, grants for schools and training of
school directors, access to education (US$ 36.4 million), school construction, girls education, and non-
formal education, capacity building (US$ 8 3 million), organizational structure and decentralization,
policy and planning, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation, and finally, development of
strategies for technical education, vocational training, and higher education (US$ 0.5 million).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program
The program will support introduction of the following key policies.
Quality of education
(a) Teacher incentives will be enhanced by:
(i)  a new policy of teacher career path with improved grade structures, salaries, benefits and
promotion criteria, as well as faster processing of promotions;
(ii) provision of staff houses with community support to attract teachers to rural areas;
(iii) salary and other career incentives to teachers who participate in in-service teacher training
programs; and
(iv) integrating pedagogical support and teacher supervision within the ZIPs.
(b) The two cycles of primary education would be unified to form one cycle of primary education. To
achieve this, the curriculum will be revised and the examinations at the end of lower primary will be
dropped and new tests will be introduced to match the cycles of learning to be introduced in the primary
school system.
(c) The use of the mother tongue will also be used as the medium of instruction in grades I and 2.
(d) To increase availability of textbooks, MINED will pursue:
(i) liberalization of textbooks publication and distribution and
(ii) decentralization of selection, procurement and distribution of textbooks to districts.
(e) Free textbooks will be provided to students in grades 1 to 7 on a 1:1 ratio.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                    Page 13
Access to education
(a) A low-cost school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance strategy will be introduced to pernit
construction of durable schools and extend the life of education assets.
(b) The Government will introduce a package of measures (monitored by new national and provincial
Gender Units) to bring gender-sensitivity into the mainstream and increase the participation and
achievement of girls in the education system.
(c) Government will provide school inputs such as teachers, textbooks and training for educational
personnel for schools built and operated by communities and the private sector.
MINED institutional reform
To strengthen policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation, including the mobilization and the use of
resources, a structure for coordination of these activities will be established, as defined in section C.4 on
implementation arrangements.
(a) A new decentralized structure for the management of education will be adopted to increase the
involvement of provinces, districts. communities and schools in the management of the system.
(b) Financial management systems will be developed to support the process of decentralization.
(c) Donor procedures for supervision, reporting, financial management and auditing will be harmonized. It
is also expected that when the new financial system being prepared under the Civil Service Refonn is in
place, it will serve as the framework for management of donor financing.
3. Benefits and target population
Benefits
Higher labor productivity will result from improved quality of education, and increased number
completing schooling. Comparing the proposed program to the without-program situation, it can be shown
that an additional 260,000 workers (those graduating from upper primary) will increase their lifetime
carnings by 18.5%, and another 15,000 workers will increase their lifetime earnings by 14% (those
graduating from lower secondary). Overall, compared to the current enrollment, an estimated 1.4 million
primary students and about 560,000 girls will be absorbed into the system between 1999 and 2003 as a
direct result of the program.
Improved understanding and participation in the activities contributing to social development and in the
process of peace consolidation and national reconciliation will promote stability, which will substantially
benefit individuals, communities and the country as a whole. National reconciliation and peace
consolidation facilitated by a larger share of the population being educated which enable them to better
understand and participate in activities that promote social stability.
Living conditions, beyond those resulting directly from higher income, will accrue to individuals receiving
additional and better education. Increasing enrollment and improving retention and repetition rates will
ultimately improve the quality of life, particularly for girls, by reducing fertility, maternal mortality and



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                   Page 14
child mortality rates; improving nutrition and health standards, and making it more likely that the children
of direct beneficiaries will in tum receive a better education.
A reduction in imbalances in economic opportunities and cultural and social benefits between the South
and other regions of the country will result from more equitable access to education. The program will also
promote greater equity in access to education for girls. Girls will also benefit from a gender-conscious
strategy for all areas of education when possible
Improved responsiveness resulting from the decentralization of education management will lead to more
appropriate solutions for communities and more effective deliver'. Local providers will have greater input
in decision making, giving them a greater stake and interest in the success of schooling Along with the
planned incentives to encourage nonpublic participation in education. decentralization will encourage
communities to increase their contributions to education financing.
Target population
The program will target (a) children of school age not enrolled, especially those in disadvantaged and rural
areas who will have better opportunitv to receive education. (b) children currentlv inside the system but
receiving a substandard education who will become better educated, (c) teachers, who will benefit as
individuals and as a professional group, and (d) adults and drop-outs who participate in nonformal
education. The components and activities supported by the program will also be directed to (e) staff and
managers of MINED at the central, provincial and district levels, and to (f) schools and local communities
organized to support the school programs. About 2 million pupils currently enrolled in the system and an
estimated 1.4 million children that will be absorbed into the svstem between 1999 and 2003 will benefit
from the improvcments in quality and access
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation Period:      Five Years
Executing Agency:           Ministry of Education (MINED)
Implementing Agencies:      Central Education Agencies, Provincial and District Education Offices and
autonomous agencies of MINED.
Program oversight and policy guidance. The existing coordinating and advisory body of MINED, the
Conselho Consultivo do Minist6rio, will be responsible for policy guidance. The CC comprises the
Minister, the Vice-Minister, the Permanent Secretary and the heads of all national directorates and
departments. The CC meets regularly to review the Ministry's programs, a task that in the recent past has
included preparation of the ESSP and coordination with donors. The CC will also meet every three months
specifically to review progress and to resolve any issues impeding the achievement of program objectives.
Organizational structure at the center. The guiding principle for implementing this program is that the
Govemrnent will implement the program with existing structures of the Ministry of Education. The
ministrv has established an Installation Conmnittee (Commisao Installadora), headed by the Vice-Minister,
with responsibilities for proposing implementation arrangements for the ESSP. The overall proposed
structure for implementation is as follows:
(i) A Steering Committee (Comite Paritario de Acompanhamento, COPA) will be the main vehicle for
ensuring donor coordination and for monitoring and evaluating implementation progress of the ESSP.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                   Page 15
The committee is headed by the Minister of Education and its members represent key ministries and
external partners.
(ii) A Technical Committee (TC) of the ministry will deal with technical issues. The TC will be
headed by the Vice-Minister and composed of national directors, the chairs of the working groups, and
qualified individuals nominated by the Minister. The Executive Secretary will also be a member of the
TC. No donors will be represented on this committee.
(iii) Working Groups (WGs) will be responsible for dealing with technical issues related to the various
components, including the preparation of technical papers. annual work plans, annual review of
implementation, and advice on changes in the design or policies related to the various components. The
seven Working Groups cover education quality, access and gender. institutional development;
vocational/technical education; adult education; higher education and research; and finance and
procedures.
(iv) A Secretariat, composed of an Executive Secretary and a few support staff, will provide
administrative services to the COPA, TC, and WGs in coordinating and monitoring implementation of
the program, including day-to-day donor coordination.
(v) A Financial Management Committee (reporting to the TC) will review quarterly program
management reports produced by M[NED's Department of Finance and Administration (DAF). The
report will cover finances, outputs and procurement.
Within this framework, the MINED line departments and provincial and district offices will take
responsibility for program implementation. The oversight and monitoring structure will provide the
necessary guidance and resources to implement the programs and ensure that MINED units meet the
reporting, financial and auditing requirements. The formal decree for establishing this structure was
approved in August 1998..
Organizational structure in the provinces and districts. The Government is gradually shifting
responsibility for developing annual work plans and implementing the program to the provincial and district
offices. Because capacity at these levels is weak and the procedures and regulations under which they
operate are still evolving, MINED will phase in decentralization gradually. Decentralization will start with
three districts out of 10 in the first year, and expanded as capacity is built in the regions and regulations for
their operations are established. This process will include development of clear procedures for operations
and staff training.
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement arrangements refer to the IDA financed share of the Program and are further described in
detail in Annex 6.
Organizational structure. Procurement under the program will be decentralized to the provinces, although
this process is still at an initial stage. The center will carry out all ICB procurement and consultant
selection under the program, coordinate all activities at provincial level, and assist the provinces with
standard bid documents, construction plans and technical advice. To strengthen the center's perfornance,
an experienced executive secretary has been appointed, experienced staff from GEPE (the former project



Project Appraisal Documen'
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                   Page 16
implementation uni), have been incorporated into MINED central functions, and an advanced procurement
course will be held In March 1999 in Maputo.
At the provincial level, only three pilot provinces will manage their own procurement in the first year of the
program. Each of the provinces will establish program implementation arrangements based in the
provincial MINED offices. supported through capacity building. The provincial MINED office will
implement procurement of small works, furniture, and educational materials using National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) and will assist rural districts to utilize community participation in school construction. The
MINED offices will be encouraged to delegate management and supervision of works to more experienced
local consulting firms. A detailed list of actions to be taken by central and provincial MINED offices prior
to program implomcntatiori have been agreed.
Procurement of wo?c.s Thec ivil works component under the program relates mostlv to construction and
rehabilitation of rural primary school classrooms, Packaging these structures into larger lots is often
impractical, and these small construction wvorks will not attract the interest of large contractors given their
remote location. MINED will therefore rely on commriunity participation and the use of small, local
contractors engaged under simplified bidding procedures used for small works. Contracts for these
structures, of an estimated value of $50,000 to $100,000. will be widely advertised under NCB. National
procurement regulations were reviewved by the Bank and considered adequate for NCB with minor
modifications. Wihenever possible, construction of larger structures (such as secondary and pre-university
schools) will be coupled wvith that of primarv schools in order to attract large contracting firms.
International contractors will be allowed to bid for any contract both below and above the threshold
established for International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Procurement of good.. ICB will be used for most procurement under the Program and carried out by
MINED at the central Ievel IAPSO may be used for purchase of office equipment (individual units) under
conditions specified in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). Contract packages of goods available
locally such as fuirniture and educational materials, below the estimated value of US$200,000 per contract,
will be purchased through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Purchase of specialized goods, such as
textbooks, software and equipment may be purchased by Intemational Shopping (IS) and Limited
Intemational Bidding (LIB) procedures for individual contracts below the threshold of US$50,000 and
US$100,000 equivalent, respectively, up to the aggregate amount not to exceed US$250,000 and
US$1,000,000 respectively. Purchase of off-the-shelf items under the individual contract amount of
$20,000 equivalent and, up to an aggregate amount of $250,000 equivalent may be purchased under
National Shopping procedures. Simple construction materials to be used under comrnunity participation
works will be purchased locally inder procedures specified in a manual of procedures.
Consulting services. MINED center will have the main responsibility for drafting Terms of Reference
(TORs) and selecting suitable consultants following IDA guidelines. The Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) will be used for most consultinig firm assignments, though other methods may also be used as
specified in the DCA.
Implementation manuals and standard documents. Bank Procurement Guidelines and standard bidding
documents (SBDs) will be used for all ICB procurement. A manual of simplified construction techniques
and procurement proceduires for use by the communities and NGOs at the district level.
Prior and post review of procurement. Contracts for works over US$200,000, contracts for goods over
US$ 100,000, the first five works and goods contracts in each province, and requests for the use of direct



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program; (ESSP)                                Page 17
contracting will be subject to IDA's prior review. All other procurement will be subject to post-review of a
representative sample of contracts on a yearly basis. TORs for all consulting assignments and training
contracts, and contracts for consulting services above the threshold of US$ 1 00,000 equivalent, will be
subject to prior review.
Procurement schedules. MINED center will have the responsibility to coordinate and maintain a general
implementation schedule for the whole program. Each of the provincial offices, however, will be required
to maintain a bar chart of the procurement activities under their adrinistration.
Harmonization of donor's procurement procedures. The ESSP has attracted the interest of a large
number of donors currently supporting the Education sector in Mozambique. Harmonization of
procurement and disbursement procedures is feasible under the Program and has been the subject of a
detailed study by IDA. It is expected that some of the donors will agree on common thresholds for
procurement under NCB ; the use of post-review and of reporting formats. Donors may also agree on the
use of standard documents and procedures for advertising, evaluating and awarding the contracts. IDA
procedures and documentation will be followed for all ICB procurement. GOM procurement regulations
may be used for NCB contracts, provided that IDA procurement regulations would prevail in case of
conflict .
Accounting, financial management, and auditing functions. MINED's Directorate of Administration
and Finance (DAF) will be responsible for overall management and reporting of the principal financial
resources for the ESSP: (a) Government funds., (b) funds from extemal partners through the new ESSP
financing "basket," and (c) other "non-basket" support within the ESSP scheme from external partners. In
the short to medium term, the DAF and provincial education offices (DPEs) will manage these funds. The
Financial Management System will be computerized and integrated, and it will support the phased
decentralization of financial management, beginning with three pilot provinces. Every quarter, the
Financial Management Committee (reporting to the Technical Committee) will review DAF's program
management report. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA will audit program accounts annually and
provide a management letter that recommends improvemerts to the financial management system. In the
medium to long term, the Government proposes to introduce a new financial management system (FMS), as
part of the overall civil service reform program.
The Government will keep the funds from IDA and each other donor in separate accounts but will move
toward common procurement, financial management and auditing procedures acceptable to all partners.
Financial statements will show ESSP basket expenditures as well as the source of the funds. Donor
agencies support the gradual transfer of funds to MINED through budget support as its financial
management capacities improve. For IDA and counterpart funding, DAF will maintain accounting records
in respect of the following three bank accounts: (a) the current account in meticais into which the
Government will deposit its counterpart funding, (b) the Special Account in US-dollars; and (c) the IDA
Loan/Credit Account, including meticais, dollar and SDR movements. In line with good accounting
practice, the accounting records for each bank account will be reconciled monthly by DAF with the bank
statements for each of the three accounts upon their receipt. Technical assistance (including a financial
controller and a deputy controller) will support DAF. The program will stren.gthen DAF to provide general
financial management of the central Ministrv directorates and agencies, the provincial and district
directorates, and schools.
The flow of IDA funds related to textbooks and school materials, grants to schools and community school
construction will be modeled on the existing Caixa Escolar (school fnd) system, vwhich the Governnent



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                 Page 18
established in 1989 to support education at the communitv level. This system is now being used primarily
for the procurement and distribution of leaming materials. Under the Caixa Escolar system, annual
budgets and distribution plans are prepared at the district level in collaboration with schools and
communities, and approved by MINED and the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Separate bank accounts
(administered by a provincial treasurer) are established for each province, and sub-accounts are established
for districts with local capacity. Allocated funds are distributed through the provincial directorates of
planning and finance (DPPFs) to the DPEs (Caixa Escolar accounts) for disbursement at the school level.
The Caixa Escolar is audited annually.
Disbursement of IDA fnds. Disbursement from IDA will be made on the basis of incurred eligible
expenditures. IDA will make advance disbursement from the proceeds of the Credit by depositing into a
Borrower-operated Special Account to expedite program implementation. The advance to a Special
Account is to be used by the Borrower to finance IDA's share of program expenditures under the Credit.
Another acceptable method of withdrawing funds from the Credit is the direct payment method, involving
direct payments from the Credit to a third partv for works, goods, and services upon the Borrower's
request. Payments may also be made to a commercial bank for expenditures against IDA special
commitments covering a commercial bank's letter of credit. IDA's Disbursement Letter stipulates a
minimum application value for direct payment and special commitment procedures. The Association may
require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i)
works under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, (iii) consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent,
(iv) consultants' services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and (v) operating
costs and training under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
ESSP will use a simplified Special Account (SA) disbursement procedure which allows decentralized
program implementation. The Govemment will open a Special Account in for example the Standard Totta
Bank of Mozambique. The Special Account will be operated by designated officials of MINED. The
decentralization of program accounts would be introduced initially on a pilot basis in three Provinces.
Following agreement between the Government (schools, DDEs, DPEs, DAF, DP, DPPF, MPF) and
cooperating partners on the annual work program and budget, procurement would be organized through the
three DPEs in accordance with ESSP's procurement procedures. Each of the three participating DPEs
would operate 2 bank accounts as follows:
(a) A current account in meticais into which counterpart funding by the Govemment would be
deposited on a replenishment basis - with an opening two months float and supported by monthly
replenishment requests of prior month expenses to DPPF.
(b) A sub-account in dollars of the Maputo Special Account with, for example, Standard Totta Bank
of Mozambique, to which dollars funding from IDA would be deposited on a replenishment basis -
with an opening 2 months float, and supported by monthly replenishments of prior month expenses.
The operation of the sub-Special Account would ease the burden on GOM of having to pre-finance
activities in the provinces where most program activities would be implemented. All payments made from
the sub-SA would have full supporting documentation including, if appropriate, evidence of goods received.
Both bank accounts would be reconciled monthly, and those reconciliations should be reviewed and
approved by DPPF and DAF as part of the replenishment process.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                 Page 19
Upon Credit effectiveness, MINED will submit a withdrawal application for an initial deposit to the
Special Account, drawn from the IDA Credit, in the amount agreed to in the DCA. Replenishment of funds
from IDA to the Special Account will be made upon evidence of satisfactory utilization of the advance,
reflected in the SOEs and/or on full documentation for payments above the SOE thresholds. Replenishment
applications should be submitted regularly - ideally every month but not exceeding three month intervals.
If ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the Special Account, the Borrower will be
obligated to refund the same. If the Special Account remains inactive for more than six months, the
Borrower may be requested to refund to IDA amounts advanced to the SA.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. MINED will monitor and evaluate the program within the
structure set up for implementation and using detailed terms of reference for key units within this structure.
Monitoring and outcome indicators (see Annex 1) will allow MINED to measure progress and will form
the basis for joint supervision with other donors. Each unit involved with implementation will develop
instruments for monitoring its respective component, while the Planning Unit and the DAF will consolidate
and analyze statistical, financial, and physical data on the rate of implementation. The new PMR system
will provide information on output indicators such as expenditures, units built and number of teachers
trained. Capacity will be built in the provinces for collecting monitoring data. The Executive Secretary
(responsible to the Technical Committee and CC) will synthesize the results. The donor group will
coordinate and manage donor-related matters, such as the preparation of statements of donor contributions,
to minimize MINED's time-consuming task of dealing with individual donors.
Formalized supervision will take place twice a year to review progress in implementation. Government and
donors will jointly prepare the terms of reference and participate in the mission. The Government and each
of the provinces will prepare annual progress reports that not only assess overall progress but also
highlight components or districts with bottlenecks or weak performance. MINED's information-gathering
activities will be the basis of the reporting requirements for the joint annual review meetings with donors.
This review will be carried out immediately following MINED's annual meeting with provincial and
district directors. The first annual review, to be held in May 2000, will be the basis not only for review of
past activities but for spending priorities for the following phase of the program. A midterm evaluation of
the program will be held no later than 30 months after program effectiveness, in accordance with terms of
reference agreed upon by MINED and the donor community. The possibility of introducing a new five-
year program, possibly supported by an additional IDA credit, encompassing vocational, technical and
higher education in addition to general education, will be discussed during this midterm review. An
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months after the closing of the IDA
credit. MINED will contribute to the ICR with its own evaluation of the program and operational plan.
MINED will commission special studies on difficult issues or problems specific to certain areas, including
education costs and financing, detailed capacity building strategies, a vocational and technical education
strategy, and improvements of quality and efficiency in higher education. The various units will carry out
these studies, with consultant help where appropriate. Independent consultants will also carry out technical
audits of the program starting in the second year to assess the quality of implementation and to make
recommendations on how strategies for dealing with technical issues may be improved.
During Negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would implement policies and procedures to
enable adequate program monitoring and evaluation in accordance with agreed indicators and (i) to prepare
a report by June 30 each year beginning in 2000 on monitoring and evaluation activities during the previous
year and recommendations for the following year; (ii) prepare a midterm report on or about December 31,
200 1; and (iii) discuss these reports with the Bank within three months after they are prepared.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                 Page 20
D. PROGRAM RATIONALE
The option of using a standard investment project as a lending instrument was considered and rejected
because it was thought that the impact would be more limited than a sector investment program for
Mozambique at this time. Mozambique experienced an influx of donor aid following the peace agreement
in 1992, and has struggled to ensure that these funds are focused on priorities, and complement each other.
The burden of managing a multiplicity of donor accounts also challenged the administrative capability of
MINED. In the context of continued stability and good prospects for economic growth, it also seemed
opportune to define and implement a strategic approach to development of human resources. In light of
these considerations, Government and donors decided the time was ripe to use a SIP for development of the
education sector.
1. Program alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
A SIP approach would normally require that the policy and investment program covers the entire sector
from the start. In this case, although a broad policy framework had been defined for the sector, it was
decided that the investment program be carried out in phases, starting with basic education, followed by
technical education and vocational training and higher education. The basic education sub-sector is the
highest priority, strategies for investment at that level are well defined and there is common agreement on
how to proceed. On the other hand options for the other two sub-sectors require more careful reflection,
given the choices that have to be made regarding design of training programs, and the roles of the public
and private sectors. Discussions are ongoing on how these issues should be resolved.
Lending instrument. The lending instrument for financing the IDA share is a Sector Investment Program
(SIP). This approach captures the essential principles on which the ESSP was developed; a sector wide
policy approach and close collaboration between Government and donors in the preparation of the program.
At the joint Assessment in May 1998, donors agreed to channel their support to the education sector in the
context of the ESSP and to agree on revision and further development of the ESSP through joint annual
reviews. There was also agreement on working towards comnmon implementation procedures. The
possibility of using an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) approach was explored during appraisal. The
APL would have been structured with the program for basic education as the first phase, followed by
technical education and vocational training, and higher education in the second phase. This phasing would
have required defining the total investment for the sub-sectors in the second phase, and committing IDA to
a specific level of contribution in the investment program. GOM and donors were uncomfortable with this
approach because they did not want to commit to specific levels of funding for technical education and
vocational training, and higher education, prior to completion of the strategies for investment in these sub-
sectors. This was especially the case as there was a need to discuss the external efficiency and financing of
these sub-sectors in the context of the rapid changes in the Mozambican economy. Moreover many donors
are just starting to review their positions on technical and tertiary education. IDA commitment to levels of
funding prior to full discussion of these issues could have pre-empted examination of all options for these
sub-sectors and undermined the collaborative approach used in developing the ESSP.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                        Page 21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
(a) Bank-financed projects
Sector Issue                    Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Quality, access and management of  Education and Manpower           HS                   S
education. Primary education only.  Development Project: Cr.
City of Maputo only.             1907-MOZ. Signed in 1988:
closed in 1995.
Project Cost: $17.96
IDA Credit: US$ 15.9
Quality, access and management of  Second Education Project:
education. Primarv and higher    Cr. 2200-MOZ. Signed in             S                  S
education. Nationwide.           1991: closed in 1998.
Project Cost: US$ 67.9
IDA Credit: US$ 53.7
Quality, access and management of  Capacity Building Project;        S                   S
education. Secondary and higher    Cr. 2436-MOZ. Signed in
education. Nationwide.           1993: will close in 1999.
Project Cost: US$ 60.28
IDA Credit: US$ 48.6
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory). U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
(b) Ongoing projects financed by other development agencies
Agency           Sector Issues              Activities and Focus          ESSP Commitments*
(US$ Million)
UNDP             Quality of education   Pre- and in-service teacher training,         4.7
pedagogical support (cofimances the
Second Education Project).
UNICEF           Access to education   Classroom construction and girls'              11.8
education (cofmanced by CIDA).
UNESCO           Quality and           Technical assistance in informal               0.2
management of         education, sector planning and curriculum
education             development.
Netherlands      Quality of education  Learning materials. Main donor of              20.8
textbooks program via the Caixa Escolar
system.
CIDA             Access to education   Girls' education program (cofinanced by        11.8
UNICEF). Learning materials (parallel
financing of textbooks).
SIDA             Quality and           Learning materials. Lead donor in the          18.1
management of         sector. (Cofinances textbooks via the
education             Caixa Escolar system.) Capacity building
technical assistance



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                       Page 22
Agency           Sector Issues              Activities and Focus          ESSP Commitments
(US$ Million)
DANIDA          Quality, access and    Exclusive activities in the province of       13.3
management of         Tete. Program encompasses all areas in
education             primary education.
FINNIDA         Access to education    Exclusive activities in the province of       20.5
Manica Secondary education classroom
construction
EU              Access to education    Finances numerous operations                  20.3
exclusively through NGOs
WFP             Access to education    Primary education classroom                   21.0
construction (cofinances the Second
Education Project)
Ireland         Quality of Education   Textbooks, Budgetary Support                  5.8
JICA            Access to Education    Teacher Training College                      7.5
IDB             Access to Education    Rehabilitation of Schools, Studies            5.6
ADB             Quality of education   Finances construction of teacher training     16.0
institutes
France, UK,     Quality of education   Largely language-related initiatives.         9.5
Spain and
Portugal (via
Gulbenkian
Foundation)                          _
* Includes indicative amounts for possible budgetarv support.
The above projects are consistent with the objectives and strategies of the ESSP, and implementation of thc
program was initiated through these efforts after the approval of the NEPS in 1995. Donors have agreed to
conforn to the common administrative mechanisms and implementation procedures that are being
developed under ESSP, and future funding of the sector will bc consistent with the joint Government and
donor review of the annual work plan and budget.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in program design
Lesson 1. The Government must develop a comprehensive and coherent strategy for the sector that
provides the basis for all donor intervention. This strategy must reflect consensus among the various
stakeholders in the sector.
= The Government has developed a coherent strategy, especially for primary and secondary education. It
has done so in consultation with local provincial and district stakeholders, and in close collaboration
with donors.
Lesson 2. Good implementation should not be dependent only on the quality of staff at an implementation
unit, but on all relevant departments in the Ministry of Education.
=> Line directorates and units of MINED will carry out the program with guidance, monitoring and
technical support from the organizational structure established for implementation. For dealing with



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                   Page 23
Bank procurement regulations, they will be strengthened and draw on the experience of the previous
project implementation unit (GEPE).
Lesson 3. Before appraisal, a detailed implementation plan must be developed for at least the first year of
operation. This will guide implementation and build momentum, as well as make up for shortcomings in
managerial skill. To maintain momentum and assist with evaluations and monitoring exercises, annual
reviews should be instituted.
= An annual plan for 1998 was developed and is being implemented. The plan for 1999 is being
finalized. Annual reviews by Government and donors have been included as part of the supervision
requirements to review progress during implementation and take corrective action if necessary.
Lesson 4. Realistic objectives are an important factor in program success, especially when capacity is
limited. This implies that the program should not require excessive amounts of foreign technical assistance
but rather be adapted to the existing level of capacity in the country or region.
=  The program design has been developed to build on existing programs. Where innovations or changes
in scale are envisaged, these will be phased in gradually while the Ministry is being strengthened to
ensure sustainability. Staff capacity will be developed to reduce dependence on extemal TA.
Lesson S. Outside Project Implementation Units create a parallel structure with activities often
implemented with a lack of coordination with main line programs of the national directorates. This also
denies the opportunity for long term capacity building within the Ministry.
= The implementation structure for the program will build on existing organizational structures at
central, provincial and district levels and activities will be implemented through the national
directorates.
Lesson 6. The use of large construction contractors for small scale school construction in rural and remote
areas is costly and inefficient and has limited options for community participation and the use of local
capacity and resources.
=> The program will focus on supporting the use of local capacity and resources for primary school
construction through the Community School Program. This will help develop local capacity, promote
ownership of schools and inject additional resources into the local economy.
Lesson 7. The management of school construction with the participation of communities or small scale
contractors requires adequate technical skills, capacity to manage procurement of construction materials,
and process disbursement or procurement requests at central, provincial, district and school levels.
> The program will promote skills development and building local capacity (artisans). In addition the
program will focus on repeated training activities for key staff in the area of procurement,
disbursement and management of construction. A procurement specialist will initially be hired to assist
the Government in preparing and clearing its initial tender documents. Procurement schedules and a
community school construction manual will be developed.



Proiect Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Pn3grarr (ESi)                                 Page 24
Lesson 8. The managemeit of coenm'ni>y school corstruction requires close monitoring and regular
supervision of construction sites tc. ensure   inir minum standards are met.
=> Construction schedules will be dnevioped and monitored regularly. In addition a network of district or
provincial supervisors withf teclhnical skills will be trained and put into place before construction is
begun on a location, to complement on-site supervision by the communitv or small scale contractor.
4. Indications of borroweir commifitaienit and, ownership
The Council of Ministers approved the National Education Policy and Strategy (NEPS) in August 1995
(Resolution no. 8/95), and the ESSP ini November 1997. The Government's socio-economic plan for 1999
is also based on the ESSP. Both the NEPS and the ESSP are regularly referred to in Government policv
statements. The ESSP was prepared with the participation of the provincial and district education offices.
and has been widely discussed by all stakeholders in education. During the assessment in May 1998 the
Ministry of Planning and Finance made a presentation supporting the ESSP and affirmed the Ministrv's
commitment to meeting the broad parameters set for financing the sector Stakeholder consultations will
continue as detailed plans for implementation are finalized and implementation starts. MINED has also
taken a proactive position in setting up arrangements for program implementation, including coordination
of donors, and work is continuing to finalize the work programs and budget for implementation. MPF has
given undertakings on the availability of Government recurrent and investment resources for the program in
the Letter of Sector Policy.
5. Value added of Bank support in this program
During program preparation, the Baank has been instrumental in two main areas: (a) technical advice in
education, financing and management issues, (b) strategic advice for mobilizing donor support and
facilitating consensus around an acceptable program, and (c) providing a predictable and flexible source of
funds to ensure that the core program will be financed while other donors firm up their contribution to
ESSP. The Bank has also supported the Governmert in programnming the strategy and has produced
background documents to support MfNED's analvsis of constraints and alternative solutions (including
Situation Analysis of Education, Education Sector Expenditure Review, Benefits of Learning Study, and
Education Sector Management Review). The Bank is also helping to develop conmnon procedures for
financial and procurement management to be used by Govemment and donors.
During program assessment, the Banik played a major role in ensuring that a coherent program was
established and that steps were taken to establish an adequate implemcntation framework for the program.
In preparation for the assessment, the Bank provided critical technical assistance to help finalize the
documents.
During program implementatior, the Bank will fund elements of the ESSP's core program to ensure it
moves forward. Bank experience is expected to play a key role in providing technical advice in program
implementation and in helping to establish a decentralized system of management in the sector. The Bank
will also make major contributions in finalizing the common monitoring and reporting arrangements. The
Bank will assist in harmonizing arrangements and procedures for program implementation.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                    Page 25
E: SUMMARY PROGRAM ANALYSIS
(detailed assessments are in the program file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic and financial
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=NA; Social IRR: Grade 1: -7.8% Grade 7: 17.3%
[X] Cost-Effectiveness Analysis: 20% savings with a reduction by half in repetition and dropout rates.
[XI Sensitivity analysis: Private and social rates of return will double when repetition and dropout rates
are reduced by 50%.
[XI Benefit Incidence Analysis: Increased investments in primary education will have a pro-poor income
distributing effect.
The economic and financial analysis (in Annex 4) conducted for the ESSP consists of (i) demand analysis
and rationale for public intervention; (ii) cost-benefit analysis, including sensitivity analysis- (iii) fiscal
analysis; and (iv) analysis of cost-effectiveness measures. The analysis is summarized below.
(i) Rationale for public intervention
Universal basic education (complete primary in low income countries, lower secondary in middle-income
countries) is a principal precondition for sustained economic growth. It increases labor force productivity
in existing jobs; it enables the labor force to move more easily to new jobs associated with higher levels of
economic development; it is the prerequisite (for a segment of the population) for advancement to middle
level and higher level professions; it induces reduction in undesirably high fertility rates; it helps improve
the health status of the population; it builds up a strong national identity via the use of a common language
and common cultural values; and it increases social cohesion by demonstrating to disadvantaged population
strata that they too belong in the social mainstream.
Empirical research in countries covering the entire spectrum of social and economic conditions supports
these arguments. Retums to education investment arc strongly positive, and typically retums for basic
education are higher than for middle and higher education. Mozambique is no exception to this rule, as
shown in the next section (ii).
Given the critical importance of education, particularly basic education, to long-term economic growth, the
state has a strong interest in promoting the necessary investment in the sector. In practical terms, this
means that the state will have to secure almost the entire financing of necessary investments from local
public revenues and external aid flows to the public sector. Given widespread poverty, private education
can be expected to cover only limited numbers of the school age population and only among high-income
households (currently, private schools enroll about 2% of primary school students).
With reference to "necessary" investments, the foregoing argument suggcsts that they are the sum of
investments needed to (a) attain universal primary education, (b) secure sufficient secondary education
graduates for filling middle level positions and advancing to university studies, (c) secure sufficient
university graduates for filling high level positions, and (d) cmbark upon a massive literacy campaign
targeted to young people who never enter school or drop out of the education system too early and stay
illiterate.
Availability of public resources determines the pace at which education investment will take place.
Projected resource availability (section (iii) below), combined with the difficulty of forcing the rate of
progress beyond technically imposed limits, has determined that at the end of the five-year program



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                   Page 26
(assuming that all planned activities to improve internal efficiency are realized), Mozambique's primary
education system (grades 1-7) will graduate about 25% of the corresponding school population, as opposed
to the desired 100%. Thus, the proposed program constitutes an early step in a long process of building up
Mozambique's human capital from a very low base: According to the 1996/97 national Household Survey
(IAF), only 17.2% of Mozambicans aged 18-65 had completed 5 years of education, while the
corresponding number for women was 10.4% and for the poor 13.9%; currently onlv 49.2% of children 7-
11 years old attend school, while the corresponding number for girls is 39% and for the poor 41 7%, and
lastly the main reasons of non-attendance in rural areas were the cost of education to households, children's
need to work, and the absence of a school in the village
(ii) Cost-benefit analysis
Rate of return analysis and sensitivity analysis. A simple rate-of-return calculation was used to estimate
the current returns to one additional year of schooling from grade 1 to 7. It is assumed that the market
wage increase, as a proxy for the marginal product of the accumulation of human capital, is nil after two
years of primary schooling. In other words, most children leaving the school system after two years will
not be able to acquire higher paid jobs or improve productivity. Costs to the parents are school materials
and fees as it is assumed that the opportunity costs from lost work is marginal for young children. Unit
costs formn the basis of the calculation of the social rate of return.
The results show a negative private and social rate of return after one year of schooling, a situation that
reflects currently high dropout rates and very low attaiment and the limited benefits accruing to the society
as a whole from individuals dropping out of schools after one year of education. But rates of return
increase rapidly after more than two years of schooling, reaching a value of 18.5% for households and
17.3% for society at large in grade 7.
Simple Rates of Return at Current Levels of Attainment (1997)
Level of Schooling   Monthly Wage/
Completed            Income         Private Return    Social Return
Illiterate          $17.4
Grade 1             $17.4             -1.5%            -7.8%
Grade 5             $27.8             15.6%            14.0%
Grade 7             $34.7             18.5%            17.3%
The sensitivity analysis reveals a clear need to improve internal efficiency throughout the system. By
reducing repetition and dropout rates by 50%, a target set under the new program, both the social and
private IRR will double . It should be noted that the computed rates of return do not attempt to capture
the higher productivity of graduates expectedfrom the better quality of education resultingfrom the
envisaged improvements. Better quality of graduates would tend to raise IRR over the estimated value.
These results are reinforced by computations donc by Mozambican researchers based on the 1996-97
Household Survey. Thus, a female completing Grade 7 increases household per capita consumption by
36% in rural areas and 25% in urban areas. Also, children of literate mothers are significantly better
nourished, are more likely to complete necessary vaccinations, and more likely to be issued health cards.
Impact on poverty. The benefit incidence analysis revealed a pattern common among developing countries.
Under the ESSP program, marginalized groups, including girls and the poorest, will particularly benefit
from the ESSP as targeted increased investments in primary education will have a pro-poor income
distributing effect. This will be reinforced by the planned increase in education expenditure per student.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                 Page 27
(iii) Fiscal analysis
Fiscal impact. The total program for the five-year period 1999-2003 is costed at US$717'million. This
amount covers capital as well as recurrent expenditure for primary education (grades 1-7), secondary
education (grades 8-12) and technical education, but excludes expenditures on higher education and the
effects of planned public sector salary decompression on education costs. An additional expenditure of
US$101 million and US$100 million (for the period 1999-2003) is estimated for salary decompression and
for higher education respectively. Thus, the total projected cost (capital and recurrent) for the provision of
education services at all levels could amount to about US$91 8 million in 1999-2003, or US$818 million
without higher education.
The fiscal viability of education sector expansion plans can be checked by comparing the above figures to
macroeconomic projections worked out by Bank and IMF staff in collaboration with Mozambican
authorities. The Government will have to allocate up to 16% of projected public expenditures (US$918
million over US$5,767 million) to meet the public sector financed costs of this program (including higher
education) over the 1999-2003 period. The Minister of Finance, in his Letter of Sector Policy to the Bank,
commits the Govemment to allocate up to 21 % of public expenditures to the education sector by the year
2003. The fiscal viability of the proposed program of education sector expansion is ensured both in termns
of the country's economic prospects and the Government's commitment to the sector's development. Also,
education (including universities) would absorb an average of 4.4% of GDP per annum in the period 1999-
2003, which is modest in view of the high percentage of school-age children and the need to rebuild
infrastructure badly damaged during the war.
Impact on unit costs. Education expenditures in Mozambique, measured either as a share in GDP or in
total public expenditures, remain below the Sub-Saharan Africa average. Under the new program unit
costs will increase as a result of the increase in salaries, the increase in spending on school materials (a
one-to-one pupil-textbook ratio) and the increase in spending on pedagogical training. Per student costs of
primary education are estimated to increase by 40% from US$14 to about US$ 19. While the unit cost will
increase considerably at primary level, it will only change slightly for lower secondary education (from
US$65 to about $70 per pupil) as the program will increase the student-teacher ratio from about 22 to 28,
thus partially offsetting increases in teacher salaries. Primary teacher salaries (EP I: US$37 per month;
EP2: US$78) are below the Sub-Saharan average of about US$70 for primary education, but will also
increase under the proposed program as a direct result of the salary decompression and upgrading program.
Sub-sectoral allocation of resources. Under the program, allocations to the sub-sectors will be improved
following the trend since 1994. Before 1994 primary education received less than 40% of the total
education budget, while at the same time the administrative overhead of the system was very high at 21 %.
By the year 2001, without an introduction of new programs for technical and vocational training and higher
education, administration will absorb 12% of total public expenditures on education, primary education
49%, secondary education 14%, teacher training 6%, technical and vocational training 4%, tertiary
education 12% and others 3%.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                   Page 28
(iv) Cost-effectiveness analysis
An attempt has been made to compute the cost savings from improvements introduced through the
proposed program (mainly, a reduction in the dropout rates and repetition rates, which reach up to 50%).
The method adopted and the full results of these computations are presented in Annex 4. In sumimary,
because of the lack of some necessary data, two approximations were made. First, numbers of graduates
over a number of years at the various levels of primarv and secondary education were related to education
expenditures in those same years instead of, as they should be, to expenditures in the vears that these
graduates were going through the education system. Second, per unit costs of graduates at the various
levels were approximated by relative teacher costs for these levels The computations based on these
approximations indicate that the cost savings from policv reforms and other interventions promoting
internal efficiency amount to about 20%. In other words, the required expenditure for producing the
specified numbers of graduates at the various levels of primary and secondary education is expected to be
20% less than it would be if dropout rates and repetition rates remained unchanged at their 1996 levels,
even though cost per student is expected to rise as mentioned in section (iii) above.
2. Technical
School construction. The Govemment has stressed the need to place the school at the center of the
education system. Traditionally, school places have been expanded in two wa's. Communities build
schools at very low cost using locally available materials and methods, without any Government financial
or technical support. In addition, the Government normally built schools of cement blocks through
contractors, often at very high cost. To expand the school system as much as possible within the budget
envelope available, the program will gradually introduce a Community School Program (CSP) that puts the
community at the center of school construction and maintenance. The design of primary school classrooms
will be based on cost-effective models used in Mozambique and in the region, which are suitable for
construction by communities as well as contractors (see Annex 13 for details). About 5,000 classrooms
will be built through the CSP over five years.
Demand and supply for teachers. MINED recognizes that the current number of pre-service teacher
training graduates will be inadequate to cover the proposed expansion and improvements to the education
system and therefore relies on an expanded in-service teacher training program. Overall about 8,500
teachers without pre-service training will have to be hired from the 10th grade and trained through this in-
service training program. At the moment the expansion in the number of teachers and the hiring of 1 0th
grade graduates is viable from both a fiscal and supply side. The pressure on the system will be further
eased if the proposed improvements in the internal efficiency are implemented for both basic education and
the teacher training system. In the ESSP scenario (Table 7 (b) in Annex 4), the population census for 1997,
which estimates overall population at about 20% below the estimations based on the 1980 census, has been
used. Under this scenario the proposed expansion of the education system becomes more feasible, as the
need for teachers will go down by about 30%, easing the pressure of hiring 10th grade graduates and
making the upgrading of untrained teachers viable within 5-6 years. This will reduce the overall costs of the
program in the later years, as the initial investments for the first years will remain the same. The analysis of
teacher training is described in detail in Annex 16.
Expansion of upper primary education. Upper primary schools (grades 6 and 7) are usually separate
schools where teaching is done by subject specialist teachers. It is normally difficult to establish these
schools because of a lack of adequately qualified teachers and the need for a minimum number of students



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                   Page 29
to make the school viable. Expanding the second cycle of primary education as currently designed was
rejected because of the potentially high cost of opening schools and hiring teachers who may not be fully
utilized. The decision was therefore to unify the two cycles by adding grades 6 and 7 to lower primary
schools. This system will make it easier for grade 5 graduates to continue to grade 6. It will also make
better use of specialist teachers, who may be underutilized in separate upper primary schools.
Teacher training and support. The Government proposed to replace the three-year teacher training
program for 7th grade graduates (7+3) with a two-year program for I 0th grade graduates ( 10+2).
However, because of the shortage of 10th grade graduates to enroll in teacher training programs, the
Government has decided to continue the 7+3 programs in the short term. At the same time, it will expand
places for the 10+2 program and gradually introduce a new, accelerated training program (called 10-+ 1 + 1).
The second year of this new program will be spent as full-time supervised teaching. In addition, 15.000
teachers with fewer than three years of training after the 7th grade will be upgraded through the in-service
training program provided by the Instituto de Aperfeicoamento de Professor (IAP - the Teacher In-service
Training Institute). The IAP program is one successful example of distance education reaching large
numbers of highly dispersed learners at a relatively low cost. The program would also emphasize dynamic
teacher support and school operations by rebuilding the ZIP system. These ZIPs would link schools with
pre- and in-service teacher training, allow for regular teacher seminars, provide pedagogical support to
schools, and help develop school-community relations. (See Annex 16 for more information about teacher
training).
Learning materials. At the moment, the Government-owned textbooks procurement unit, Diname, is the
country's only publisher of textbooks. The planned transition from state monopoly to competition in
publishing will be phased in roughly by the end of the program period. There is concern that opening the
market for textbook publishing will initially reduce the availability of textbooks and other learning
materials in the schools. Publishing skills are limited, and the market for printed materials in Mozambique
is relatively small. The issue of textbook availability is complicated by the proposed policy of cost-
recovery for students in grades I to 5, which could seriously limit book sales (because poverty is
widespread, the Government will continue to provide free books to students up to grade 5 and to
disadvantaged students through the Caixa Escolar). In the higher grades, the Government will introduce
progressive cost-recovery for textbooks. The Government will follow a carefully planned program of
transition to privatization following the steps outlined in the report on textbooks publication, to ensure
continued provision of books in schools while the private sector develops its capacity. These transition
arrangements will also include a buffer fund for the purchase of books during the transition.
Cycles of learning. To improve the internal efficiency and unclog the system at the primary level, the
option of introducing automatic promotion was considered. This was rejected because a low-quality
system with poorly qualified teachers, many with limited commitment, would provide no checks on student
achievement. However, to reduce the burden of excessive examination, a new system will be introduced to
assess student achievement at specific points. This change will organize the school system according to
cycles of learning instead of grades to permit a better timeframe for curriculum development and learning
outcomes.
3. Institutional
Capacity building. Mozambique's administration system has traditionally been centralized, and the
implementation of the strategic plan under a policy of decentralization will impose new challenges.
Decentralization in the management of education will be achieved by establishing an appropriate



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                       Page 30
administrative framework for the central, provincial, district and school levels, including regulations
relating to interaction among them. The qualifications and grade levels of staff will be upgraded to meet
the new responsibilities. To address these issues, the program will develop and gradually implement a
capacity building strategy. Within the Government. the program will increasingly incorporatc district
proposals into the planning process. Annex 12 contains a discussion on issuies, progress so.far and future
plans for institutional development
4. Social
Gender. The program will help implement MINED's plan of action for incorporating gender initiatives in
the ESSP (prepared February 1998). The 1996/97 national Household Survey (IAF) found that education
for women in rural areas was associated not only with higher household consumption but also with social
benefits related to the health, nutritional status and schooling of their children But socioeconomic,
geographical and cultural constraints cause great variance in girls' enrollment and completion rates across
regions. Girls' share of total enrollment in lower primary, upper primarv and secondarx education is,
respectively, only 30%, 27% and 21% in the North, and 36%. 29% and 31% in the Center Dropout ratcs
are similar for boys and girls at each grade level, but repetition rates are significantly higher for girls in
every grade and every region. MINED's report recommends incorporating the gender dimension into
policy and planning, developing MINED capacity to "mainstream" gender issues in the ESSP, cnsuring
equitable access to recruitment and promotion, and increasing the number of female students and teachers
Gender Units will monitor such initiatives as providing scholarships for girls, providing safe boarding
facilities for female students and incorporating gendcr concerns into the curriculum and teacher training
Vulnerable groups. The program targets activities to rural areas and to underserved provinces where the
incidence of poverty is substantially above average Activities across the program's components
specifically emphasize the necds of poorer regions and households. Most of the construction and
rehabilitation program will concentratc on rural areas The Government will address the shortage of
qualified teachers in rural areas through qualifications upgrading, incentives and improved facilities. The
Caixa Escolar will ensure that the poorest sections of society rceive educational matcrials, and the revised
curriculum will better reflect rural needs and realities. The shift in management responsibility and
resourccs, along with accompanying skills development, will give rural communities greater control.
5. Environmental assessment
Environmental Category:       I I A    I 1 B    [XI C
There will bc no environmental problems arising from the program. The program will build schools in
rural areas. Water, soil, sand and othcr local materials will be used for construction. Sanitation facilities
will be built at a number of schools, and these will bc sited to avoid contaminating water supplies. The
program will provide water to schools where possiblc to improve health conditions. The program will also
promote environmcntal awareness through the curriculum and education materials.
6. Participatory approach
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. The Govemnment's Strategic Plan was developed with
the participation of a full range of stakeholders including parents, local communities employers, NGOs,
and religious organizations. This was achieved through: (a) bringing teachers and staff into the decision-
making process, through the various working groups, (b) increasing representation of actors at the



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                   Page 31
provincial, district, and school levels in the planning process, (c) strengthening ZIPs and training school
directors to interact more effectively with communities; and (4) holding consultative sessions with civil
society. Specific consultative meetings included:
(i) April 1998 - a seminar opened by the Prime Minister on the main objectives and strategies of the
Education Sector Strategic Plan, especially on technical education and vocational training, with
participants from Government ministries, private sector, higher education institutions, trade unions, and
NGOs.
(ii) May 1998 - The Prime Minister and the President addressed a seminar on the ESSP and strategies for
translating its objectives into practice, for central, provincial and district level directors, and key staff.
(iii) May 1998 - a seminar attended by representatives from national and intemational NGOs, churches,
trade unions and educators on the ESSP and strategies for community participation in the ESSP
implementation.
(iv) August 1998 a seminar for about 40 top officials from the 11 provinces and the HQ in Matola, on
organizational change and leadership for the ESSP implementation.
Similar workshops are planned for the future.
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability
The proposed program and expansion ($818 million) including salary decomposition of US$ 101 million
will require public expenditures for education, excluding higher education, to rise by about 10% annually,
mainly to cover the increased salary costs of the greater number of teachers and the salary decompression
of about 29%. As a share in total recurrent expenditures the share will increase from 15% in 1998 to
18.7% by year 2003. Measured against GDP the share will remain constant at 4.4% including higher
education. These ratios are consistent with the targets set out in the HIPC Decision Paper. In view of
projected increases in public resources, and the Government's pledge to gradually raise education's share
of public expenditures up to 21% by year 2003, the program is fiscally feasible.
Although the projected flows of foreign aid imply that the program will continue to rely on donors'
assistance, long-term sustainability of the program seem ensured cven if donor assistance were to stabilize
at current levels. The country's prospects for cconomic growth are good and the Government is committed
to increasing the share of education in the budget.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                 Page 32
2. Critical risks
Risk              Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
The macroeconomic situation       M        In support of Government's reform program donors
might deteriorate, preventing the          have agreed to move gradually toward increased
Government from fully                      budgetary support, which would give the Government
implementing the planned                   greater flexibility in making adjustments if public
program.                                   resources are constrained.
Market conditions in the rapidly  M        Inflation is being successfully contained. Also, the
expanding Mozambique                       proportion of imported materials in construction is low
economy might cause prices to              and the use of local materials is maximized Donor
rise-for example, for                      assistance is available for importing textbooks.
construction materials or
textbooks.
The pace of Government            S        HR constraints in central MINED and the provinces
decentralization and capacity              will continue to be addressed by reforming
building might be too slow to              management systems and strengthening line units. The
allow MINED to reach its                   capacitv building program will pay particular attention
program targets.                           to improving financial management, procurement,
school operations, and support for teachers in the
provinces and districts. Full commnitment to this
process will speed up implementation.
Low salaries and low staff        M        The Government will implement salary decompression.
morale might undermine the                 Teachers will also benefit from improved teaching
effectiveness of the program.              conditions resulting from re-activation of the ZIPs,
improved tcacher support and school facilities, and the
provision of housing, especially in rural areas.
Community involvement in school management would
also help support teachers in areas where the public
sector efforts are constrained
Inadequate donor coordination     M        MINED is leading donor coordination through its
might delay implementation.                Stcering Committee (COPA) and M&E structure to
monitor progress and to share information.
Project implementation might bc   S        Donors and Government have agreed to follow
delayed because of MINED's                 common implementation guidelines and procedures to
relative unfamiliarity with Bank          the extent possible (donor harmonization). Until this is
and other donor financial and              achicvcd, procedures will be based on existing
procurement guidelines.                    Govcrnment arrangements, modified as necessary.
Training will also be provided prior to Effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                 Page 33
Risk                          Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Provision of textbooks and        M        The transition to private publication of textbooks will
teaching materials might be                be gradual and implemented in parallel with a program
delayed during the transition to           for the continued provision of existing textbooks. A
an open market in the                      policy statement and action plan for privatization will
publication of school textbooks.           also be a condition for effectiveness.
MPF processes related to          H        The program will strengthen MINED procurement and
financial management and                  financial management skills in the provinces and
procurement may delay                      districts, and MINED is working with MPF in
implementation.                            reforming the Government's financial management and
procurement system.
Communities might not respond     M        ZIPs will help organize and mobilize communitv
rapidly enough to the school               efforts. The Community School Program will provide
construction program or follow             substantial technical supervision, close financial
school design models.                      control and widely used designs, adapted to the needs
of the various communities.
Institutional and behavioral      H        Program activities target many of the causes of
constraints might prevent                  internal inefficiency. These activities include
MINED from reaching its                   increasing the number of complete schools, raising
targets for improvement in                teacher salaries, giving grants directly to schools,
internal efficiency (dropout and           providing support through ZIPs, close monitoring and
repetition).                               evaluation, and community involvement in school
management.
Overall Risk Rating               S        The program is demand driven and based on the
perccption of thc benefits of more and better quality
cducation by Government and civil society. Design of
components and management of resources rely on
approaches that will be led and adopted by
communities and which will yield lasting benefits. The
cost-effectiveness of the approach will ensure
financing for similar activities by agencies not formally
involved in the program.
Risk Ratings - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                                 Page 34
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS
1. Conditions of effectiveness
(a)    Submission of the Program Implementation Manual, including detailed designs of all components
as well as schedule and costs for the first two years of implementation.
(b).   Completion of the Financial Procedures Manual.
(c)    Completion of the procurement plan for the first two years.
(d)    Appointment of the Financial Controller and the Deputy Financial Controller.
2. Other conditions
(a)    Submission of a plan for the involvement of communities in the establishment and running of
schools by December 31, 1999.
(b)    Completion of a census of ZIPs and a plan for expansion of their activities by December 31, 1999.
(c)    Joint annual Program implementation reviews in May aimed at: (i) documenting progress toward
objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Program implementation; and (iii) adjusting targets
and corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the program in prior
years and ensuring responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the objectives of the program.
(d)    Submission annually by October 1, of an annual work program and budget (AWPB) consistent
with the program which will form the basis of the annual review.
(e)    Submission by the end of the first and third quarters of each year, of a progress report including
information on agreed outcome and performance indicators based on data from the Program Monitoring
Reporting system. The report would include, inter alia, a summary statement on the status of
implementation of each component, including compliance with project covenants and progress in meeting
agreed policy objectives.
(f)    Submission by May 31, 2001, of a mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities of the program on the progress achieved during the period from program effectiveness,
and a work program covering the period until project completion.
(g)    Submission by June 30, 2000, of a policy strategy and work program for privatization of textbook
publication.
(h)    Submission by December 31, 1999, of an action plan for the improvement of internal efficiency
(dropout and repetition).
(i)    Submission by December 31, 1999, of a specific plan and procedures for the management of direct
grants to schools.



Project Appraisal Document
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)                               Page 35
0)    Submission by June 30, 2000 of a study and recommendations for improving time on task in
schools and implementation of specific measures promptly following agreement with IDA.
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and readv for the start of
program implementation. [ Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and readv for the start of
program implementation.
[x] The draft Program Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
[x]  This program complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]  [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The program complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Donald Hamilton. Task Team Leader
Ruth Kagia. Sector Manager
Phyllis Ponerantz. Countrvyector



23  6                                                                    (      EXIT TO WORKMARKET
W   22  6  IIJ                          LI -;                                   REGULAR AVENUE                                  J    s
O   2t  4                                                -J                  __  ALTERNATIVE AVENUE                                 >
4 21  4   C.) 
20  3                          TEACHER                                          TEMPORARY SOLUTION                              J     u
201 9 2                             ACHER                                                             - 
E 19 2 O ~~~~~~TRAINING| ___  
18  1                         HIGHER EDUCATION
0           0                                      _
o ~~ _____ ________ ___
z           w
U.                                                                                                                                 -        - - -    
2    J   [  --[ r   1  GX                                          <                               , N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 
GENERALTEACHER            MI-EE                        ~MDLVL> 
17  12         SECONDARY         RAINING        OTEC __                                         ADULT L                   .-
16  1t        EDUC -11 LEVEL                        ATION          _                          EDUCATION                              L>
_ ,                                                       --* - ---   +     C ____ _ ACCELARATED    u 
MID-LEVEL               -i
EDUCATION
F ..   ,_..____   _.    --o-
16 10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wc
1 o 10                   :     -. GENERAL  T                                               -                                       o
14  9          SECONDARY        TSECONDARY T                                                  ADULT GENERAL
13  a                                          VOTEC EDUC                                i      EDUCATION                             a 0
t ~ ~ ~ A--- z'                -      _     (                  ____,    q  
C4    m
LU
_   l           l                 ~~~~~~~ELEMENTARY  I_~_ 1U):-___
12  7                                            VOTEC EDUC
6 LVEL116                                                                                                                   W  tLEVEII
10  5          LEVEL I                                                                     ADULT PRIMARY                        J
9  4                                                                             1           EDUCATION
-8   3                  PRIMARY
7 2                 EDUCATION                                                         t.
6   1
s                 t      t_____
PRE-PRIMARY EDUC.                                                                    --
3
2
SCHOOL POPULATION                               15 YEAR OLD OR MORE                          UQ -
-o_



MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Program Design Summary
A. OVERALL OBJECTIVES
Narrative Summary                 Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and                  Critical Assumptions
Supervision
CAS Objective
Poverty reduction by restoration of . Human Development Index rating increased  MOF annual Report   . Shared consensus on broad development
a stable macroeconomic                                                                             objectives is maintained
framework, sustainable rapid   * Increase in average income of the poor    IMF and IDA
economic growth, improved living                                           macroeconomic
standards, social equity and a shift                                       indicators
of resources and opportunities
toward rural areas, where the
poorest live
Program Development                                                                                 (Program Development Objective to CAS
Objective                                                                                           Objective)
To provide increased and       * Increased proportion of students passing kcy  MINED statistical    . Peace and national unity are maintained.
equitable access to higher quality   primary and lower secondary exams (1999-2003)  records, monitoring and    a Mozambique's macroeconomic situation does not
education and to improve the       - Grade 5 from 54% to 75%               Program Monitoring       deteriorate.
management of education for        - Grade 7 from 37% to 60%               Reporting (PMR)          a Government remains committed to sustained
economic and social development    - Grade 10 from 33% to 55%                                       growth and poverty alleviation. Government
in Mozambique                  * A reduction in the average repetition and                          recurrent expenditures in education increase in real
dropout rates by half for primary and lower                         terms by at least 10% annually, from a 1998 base of
secondary education                                                 US$67 million. Investment expenditures in
* An increase in gross enrollment rates:                            education increase by at least 5% annually, from a
- Grades 1-5 from 67% to 86%                                     1998 base of US$7.7 million. Recurrent
- Grades 6-7 from 15% to 30%                                     expenditure in education as a share of the total
. An increase in enrollment in the schools and                      public recurrent expenditures increase from 15.0%
districts where classrooms are built, equivalent to                 in 1998 to 18.7% in 2003
at least 75% of the new capacity created.
a Implementation of at least 80% of the work
program for each year, measured by the physical
targets and the budget spent for program and
routine activities.
* Rate of decentralization of management to the
provinces and districts, as defined in the schedule
to be included in the PIM.



B. PROGRAM OUTPUTS
Narrative Summary                       Key Performance Indicators                    Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Supervision            (Outputs to Objectives)
1. Quality of Education
1. I Teacher training is  * 5 new IMAPs established                                    EMIS data;           Government increases recurrent
expanded and strengthened   a 15,000 F level tcachers (6,000 female) upgraded through IAP  program         expenditures to allow expansion in
monitoring report   teacher numbers; teacher salaries and
(PMIR)             conditions are improved, raising moralc
1.2 System for support to  * ZIPs revitalized; 840 rehabilitatedlrevitalized           EMIS, PMR           Teachers are motivated to improve their
teachers is improved                                                                                       skills
1.3 Basic education       * The curriculum transformed to reflect the integration of the first    PMR, review of  Stakeholders (including teachers,
curriculum is transformed    and second cycles and to reflect national values and regional  INDE's program  directors, and parents) accept and
to suit learning needs    diversity                                                     and inmplementation  implement the curriculum reforms
1.4 Books in core subjects    * Students have a basic kit of materials                 Caixa Escolar       Teachers and students make good use of
and learning materials are                                                             records, school     the books in the classroom, loss is
provided to all children                                                               surveys, PMR        minimized
1.5 National assessment and  a Team for pedagogical evaluation established at INDE and a  INDE sturvey of  NAS results are taken into account for
examination system (NAS)   revised system for examination and assessment introduced     practiccs, exam    education policy decisions
is strengthened                                                                        results, PMR
1.6 Direct support is     * School Quality Improvement Fund established and operational  PMR               MINED distributes and schools manage
provided to schools                                                                                        funds wisels
1.7 School directors are  a 6,262 school directors reccive training                    PNMR                School directors arc willing to apply new
trained                                                                                                    methods learned in training
2. Access to Education
2.1 Capacity for           * 12,000 additional primary classrooms built; 25 ESGI and 4 ESG2  Site visits. PMR  Enrollment growth parallels expansion
enrollments increased at  schools built                                                                    of school places
primary and secondary
levels
2.2 A program of           * 22,000 one-year fellowships are provided to girls         PMR, Gender         Households, communities, NGOs and
mobilization, monitoring   * National and provincial Gender Units established and trained  Units' reports, cost  provinces support gender initiatives
and support of girls                                                                    and targeting
established                                                                             studies
2.3 Nonformal education    * Literacy strategy adopted and implemented                 PMR, reports from    NFE receives priority stated in ESSP,
expanded                                                                               NGOs                and target groups are informed of
program
2.4 Services for children  * An experimental SE model established and tested in 4 schools  PMR             Innovations of the model are replicated
with special educational   * 11 SE schools rehabilitated and 3 built
(SE) needs improved
>- -



B. PROGRAM OUTPUTS  (continued)
Narrative Summary                       Key Performance Indicators                    Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Supervision            (Outputs to Objectives)
3. MINED Institutional
Capacity
3.1 MINED organization     * MINED organizational structure reviewed and reformed       PMR, interviews    MINED is able to overcome persistent
structure and decentralized    * New delivery mechanisms, procedures and systems established in   with department  institutional and behavioral constraints
management are             accordance with decentralization plan                        officers, site visits,  that reduce effectiveness
strengthening                                                                           salary records
(DP/MINED)
3.2 Planning and policy    a System for education planning and monitoring established   PMR and reports by  Policv studies are used as the basis for
analysis capability built  a Annual review of the ESSP conducted by donors and government  provincial DP    reform and plans are implemented
3.3 Financial management    * New financial management system is in place               PMR, school visits,  Training is effective and MINED fully
system introduced                                                                       beneficiary        implements the system
assessment reports,
site visits
3.4 Introduction of a      * Education monitoring and information system established    PMR                Policymakers and implementers
monitoring and evaluation                                                                                   incorporate the findings of M&E efforts
system                                                                                                     to adjust ESSP implementation
4. Vocational and
Technical Education
4. 1 Strategy for vocational    * Current system of voc/tec education studied and new strategy  PMR         Government is committed to the strategy
and technical education    adopted                                                                         and the private sector and NGOs
developed                                                                                                   participate in technical education
provision
a;b
243 
w -



C. PROGRAM COMPONENTS
Narrative Summary                               Inputs         Monitoring and Supervision         Critical Assumptions
(base costs)                                      (Components to Outputs)
1. Quality of Education                                           US$ 108.5                                         * The pace of decentralization
To improve the quality of education, the ESSP will                million           Quarterly and annual progress   and capacity building is
(a) train teachers,                                                                reports, disbursement data       adequate
(b) provide pedagogical support for teachers,                                                                        * MINED steadily becomes
(c) transform the curriculum,                                                                                        familiar with Bank and donor
(d) increase the supply of learning materials,                                                                      procedures
(e) strengthen student assessment and examinations,                                                                 * MPF procurement and
(f) provide direct support to schools, and                                                                          financial management processes
(g) train school directors.                                                                                         do not delay implementation
* Donors coordinate inputs
2. Access to Education                                            US$ 193.3                                          * Commercialization of
To increase access and improve equity in schooling, the ESSP will  million                                           textbooks publishing does not
(a) build and rehabilitate schools and classrooms,                                                                  cause delays in book provision
(b) introduce initiatives to promote girls' education,                                                              a Communities respond to the
(c) develop nonformal education, and                                                                                school construction program and
(d) pilot programs for special education.                                                                           follow model designs
* Prices remain relatively stable
3. MINED Institutional Capacity                                   US$ 325.4
To strengthen education management capacities, the ESSP will      million
(a) strengthen MINED's organizational structure and support
decentralization,
(b) develop MINED's policy and planning capacity,
(c) build MINED's financial management capabilities, and
(d) conduct monitoring and evaluation.
4. VocationalTechnical Education Strategy                         US$ 42.1 million
(a) produce the subsector strategy and finance the activities it proposes
Total Base Costs                                                  US$ 669.3
million



Annex 2
Page 1 of 8
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Detailed Program Description
The objective of the Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP) is to provide increased and equitable
access to higher quality education and to improve the management of education for economic and social
development in Mozambique. IDA will fund key elements of the ESSP related mainly to primary and
secondary education, as well as helping to develop strategies for other subsectors. The Government is yet
to finalize a comprehensive framework for the development of technical and vocational education, adult
literacy, and higher education. Once interventions for basic education are underway, donors will discuss
specific plans for the development and integration of the other subsectors into the program.
Component 1: Quality of Education, US$ 108.5 million (IDA: US$ 25.8 million)
Objective. The objective of this component is to improve the quality and internal efficiency of primary and
general secondary education by reducing dropout and repetition rates and improving student academic
achievements, especially in rural and underserved areas, and among girls.
1.1    Teacher training (US$ 24.7 million total; IDA US$ 6.0 million). The ESSP assigns the highest
priority to pre-service and in-service teacher training. About 7,600 teachers (or about a quarter) are un-
trained at the lower primary level and the corresponding ratio at upper primary is about 21%. In addition
to upgrading existing teachers, the Government will also need to hire new teachers to meet its enrollment
targets. An estimated 18,700 new teachers will be needed during the program period. With new planned
capacity and an increase in efficiency, teacher training institutes will be able to graduate an estimated 8,400
new teachers over this period. The gap will be filled with grade 10 graduates, and complemented through
intensified in-service training. (See Annex 16 for more information about the teacher training system and
tcacher demand and supply).
At the pre-service level, three types of institutions will continue to operate in the short termn-i) Curso de
Formacao de Professores Primarios (CFFP), providing three years of training for lower primary candidates
with seven years of schooling; (ii) Institutos Medios de Professores Primarios (IMPs), providing three years
of training for upper primary teachers (10+3); and (iii) Institutos de Magisterio Primario (IMAPs),
providing two years of training for all primary teachers (10+2). The Government, however, will move
toward a 10+1 + I model that will consist of 10 years of schooling as entrance qualification, I year of
intensive pre-service training, and I year of supervised practice accompanied by in-service training and
support. Because of a shortage of grade 10 graduates, the Government has decided to continue its 7+3
program in the short term. At the same time, it will expand places for the 10+2 program and gradually
introduce 10+1 + 1. Under the plan to unify the two levels of primary school, fewer teachers will be needed
for each upper primary grades. so the IMPs will gradually be phased out as the IMAP system expands
enrollment. The program will establish five new IMAPs and upgrade four CFPPs into IMAPs.
At the in-service level, the program will expand training and instructional support for teachers through the
current programs of the Instituto de Aperfeicoamento Pedagogico (Teacher Improvement Institute, or IAP)
by distance learning and the ZIPs. IAP will upgrade 15,000 un-trained and under-qualified teachers-
Group E teachers (graduates with seven years of schooling)-up to the D level. This will provide these
teachers with a diploma equivalent to the one provided by the primary teacher training course CFPP. IAP
will also improve the qualifications of 6,000 D-level teachers with no professional training (10 years of
schooling). Overall, about 25% of primary teachers and 50% of secondary teachers will receive in-service



Annex 2
Page 2 of 8
training. School directors and supervisors will also participate in training programs for school quality
improvements. The program also intends to increase the motivation of teaching staff by improving the
working conditions in the classrooms, and by establishing training and resource centers (Nucleos de
Formacao Permanentes, or NUFORPEs) for in-service training in the provinces. The Government will also
revise teachers' career development procedures to limit delays in teacher promotion following
qualifications.
The program will finance (a) design, construction, and furmishing of five IMAPs and one IAP; (b)
workshops and seminars for teacher trainers, (c) leaming materials. (d) the costs of pedagogical monitoring
and supervision; (e) rehabilitation of continuing education centers (NUFORPEs); and (f) in-service and
distance education costs including course design, training, and materials.
1.2    Pedagogical support for teachers (US$ 17.7 million total; IDA US$ 6.2 million). MINED will
also improve quality by reinforcing the ZIPs (Zonas de Influencia Pedagogica-pedagogical zones of
influence), clusters comprising about 6 to 10 schools each. Although the ZIP program is about 40 years
old, it has declined to become mainlv a forum for teachers to discuss problems. The program will revitalize
the ZIPs to provide in-service training and pedagogical support to tcachers-building the skills and
confidence of new or untrained teachers and keeping experienced teachers up-to-date and engaged. The
ZIPs are being associated with teacher resource centers to be based in each district. The ZIPs link schools
with pre- and in-service teacher training, allow for regular teacher seminars, provide pedagogical support to
schools, and help develop school-community relations The program will rehabilitate 840 ZIPs (ZIP census
to be undertaken in 1999), which will serve as models for the others. MINED will strengthen pedagogical
supervision and school inspection services, allowing teaching activities to be systematically monitored and
supported. While a shortage of teachers persists, about a third of primary schools will continue with double
and triple shifts. To smooth out this problem, the ministry will ensure that all training programs for
tcachers provide them with skills and techniques that will enable them to work with large classes.
The program will finance (a) rehabilitation of 840 ZIPs, (b) teaching materials for ZIPs; (c) a national
seminar on ZIPs-related experience, (d) study tours related to ZIP methodologies; (e) pedagogical technical
assistance; (f) training for ZIP coordinators; and (g) operational expenses for ZIP models.
1.3    Curriculum transformation (US$ 7.1 million total; IDA US$ 1.0 million). The program
supports transformation of the curriculum to make it more relevant to the rapidly changing requirements of
Mozambican society, and particularly to address the sociocultural and economic needs of rural areas and
gender issues. The Instituto Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educacao (INDE) is leading the curriculum
revision effort, with UNESCO support. The revision involves teachers and representatives of civil society
such as NGOs, workers' and employers' organizations, and religious organizations.
The existing curriculum does not clearly specify the content to be taught at each grade and needs to be more
consistent with learning goals and the assessment system. The Government aims to ensure a systematic
progression of pupils through the primary grades. "Cycles of learning" strategies will allow for longer
periods for children to absorb material. Revising the curriculum is also necessary to reflect integration of
lower primary and upper primary into one comprehensive basic education subsystem. It must be
sufficiently rigorous to provide young Mozambicans with the academic skills that they need and sufficiently
flexible to accommodate the diverse demands and expectations of a pluralistic society.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
The curriculum revision is also promoting "education for peace, democracy and national reconciliation"
pilot initiatives and "systematic action in the field of moral education and civic awareness in order to
combat delinquency and corruption" (Council of Ministers Resolution no. 8/95)-an important aim for a
post-conflict country like Mozambique. It will also incorporate any adopted strategies related to language
of instruction in the initial grades of lower primary, including the use of mother tongue languages for
instruction in grades 1 and 2. The program will adapt materials to support girls' learning needs and also
pilot an environment and health education program.
The program will finance (a) international and local technical assistance in curriculum revision and
technical evaluation for various subjects including math, science and bilingual education; (b) equipment and
fumiture; (c) training and fellowships related to curriculum revision; (d) operational expenses including
printing and distribution, and (e) seminars on democracy and national reconciliation.
1.4    Learning materials (US$ 39.9 million total; IDA US$ 6.4 million). The program goal is one
book for every pupil per subject in primary school. The cost of school materials will be shared by the state
and parents, local communities and other agencies (e.g., NGOs, religious organizations, and the private
sector), but textbooks will be free to pupils in primary grades 1 to 7. The Government established the
national social program Caixa Escolar, to support education at the community level (Ministerial Decree
No. 47/89 of December 28, 1989). This system is funded by the Government and donors and will ensure
equity in access to school materials among the poorest sections of society. It will provide kits of basic
educational materials for teachers and classrooms. The program will give ZIPs the ability to directly
purchase and/or select specific titles. ZIPs will be able to introduce libraries and alternative/multiple
textbooks for use in school.
Although the supply of books in classrooms has increased in recent years, the Government wants to ensure
long-tern supply. For that reason, the program will gradually implement a new textbooks policy to
encourage the development of commercial publishing. With technical assistance,* MINED has begun
mapping its strategy for encouraging the development of an open market in publishing to improve the
efficiency. capacity and sustainability of textbooks production and distribution. It has also established the
Working Group for Basic Leaming Materials to coordinate the process and recommend policy steps. The
program will fund further activities to complete this shift. The steps for moving to privatization are
outlined in the consultants report of March 1998 on which MINED's policy is based. These steps were
reviewed at a seminar in August 1998.
At the moment, the Government-owned publishing house, Diname, is the country's only procurement
agency for textbooks. INDE, as the writer, holds the copyright for primary school textbooks, while Diname
produces school textbooks. To ensure quality, INDE will continue to set standards, evaluate books, and
provide training, but commercial publishers will be encouraged to compete with Diname for the right to
produce textbooks. All books produced, at all levels of the system, will be submitted for the approval of the
Conselho de Aprovacao do Livro. Foreign publishers will be allowed to participate if they establish
themselves, and publish, in Mozambique. They must also build local knowledge through training and the
transfer of technology.
The transition from state monopoly to competition in publishing will be gradual, to be phased in by the end
of the program period. To ensure that textbooks will continue to be produced and delivered to schools
during the transition, the program will also institute a buffer fund. The fund will correspond to
Graphium Consult AB, "Towards a National Policy for Educational Materials in Mozambique," March 12, 1998.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
approximately one year's supply of textbooks to the entire general education system. The Government (in
1994) has already taken one important step toward creating an open market in textbooks provisions-the
decentralization of textbooks procurement to the provincial or district level. Private traders already
distribute books to schools.
The intention is that the distribution of IDA funds will be modeled on the Caixa Escolar system, as outlined
in the Plano Operativo da Caixa Escolar. The system is already used for the procurement and distribution
of learning materials totaling US$6.5 million annuallv, and funds are disbursed within a few months of
receipt. Under this system, annual budgets and distribution plans are prepared at the district level in
collaboration with schools and communities and approved by MINED and the Ministry of Planning and
Finance (MPF). Separate bank accounts (administered by a provincial treasurer) are established for each
province, and sub-accounts are established for districts with local capacity.
The program will finance (a) about 43 million primarv school textbooks, 375,000 teacher manuals, and
other teaching/learning materials, (b) technical assistance for the commercialization of materials
production: (c) technical assistance to monitor textbook distribution; (d) materials, technical assistance, and
training to expand bilingual education, and (e) support for evaluation and supervision of bilingual
education, including equipment and furniture.
1.5    Assessment and examinations (US$ 2.4 million total; IDA US$ 0.3 million). To reduce the
burden of excessive examination, the ESSP will introduce a new system to assess student achievement at
specific points, in line with the revision of the curriculum and the introduction of complete schools (grade I
to 7). This approach will be organized according to "cycles of learning" instead of grades to pennit a better
timeframe for curriculum development and learning outcomes. The program will develop and implement a
system for the collection of data on student achievement in primary schools, including a review of the
present examination system. Systematic monitoring and assessment will enable the Ministry to track the
performance of the education system and identify aspects of the curriculum or teaching methodology that
need improvement. In addition, the ministry will continue to work with educators to modify instructional
and assessment practices that contribute to high rates of failure and repetition. MINED will also encourage
school directors and teachers to develop procedures for periodically conveying information about students'
performance to their parents or guardians.
The program will finance (a) national and international technical assistance in the concepts and logistics of
conducting examinations; (b) examinations training; (c) study tours for supervisors; and (d) related
equipment, equipment and operating costs.
1.6    Direct support for schools (US$ 13.6 million total; IDA US$ 5.0 million). The program will
create a School Quality Improvement Fund to support the decentralization of resource administration to the
school level. The fund will be allocated to individual schools in the form of annual grants, which will be
spent on the most pressing education needs. The grant will be managed by the school council, composed of
teachers, parents' representatives, the school director and the district director. Initially, an NGO operating
under the general authority of the district director will support the procurement and distribution of goods to
meet identified school needs. (The institutional development component funds a parallel program to
strengthen district accounting and financial management.) Pilot activities in school feeding and school
health may also be introduced to improve the learning environment.
The program will finance the cost of grants to schools.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 8
1.7    Training of school directors (US$ 3.1 million total; IDA US$ 0.9 million). MINED's
decentralization efforts imply the need to strengthen capacity at every level. International research has
shown that leadership is an important element in school effectiveness. ESSP therefore supports a broad
training effort to strengthen the leadership skills of more than 6,000 school directors. The training will aim
to build competence in school management, the supervision of teachers, school finance, community-school
relations, best academic practices, and the collection and use of data.
The program will finance materials, travel and other training expenses for 6,262 directors and for the
training of trainers.
Component 2: Access to Education, US$ 193.3 million (IDA: US$ 36.4 million)
Objective. The objective of this component is to increase coverage and equity of education by expanding
primary and secondary school enrollment, mainly in rural areas, with special emphasis on enhancing the
participation of girls and boys living in underserved regions.
2.1    School and classroom construction and rehabilitation (US$ 177.2 million total; IDA US$ 31.8
million). The goal of this subcomponent is to expand primary and secondary places, with a focus on the
northern and central regions and rural areas, and on accessibility for girls. To help meet its goals for
greater access, Mozambique aims to build about 12,000 primary classrooms over the next five years.
MINED's construction targets are based on regional priorities defined according to projections of student
population growth, the accessibility of sites, current construction activity, and population density. In the
proposed scenario, 87% of the classrooms would be in rural areas, and the provinces with highest priority
would be Cabo Delgado, Manica, Nampula, and Niassa. The final selection of sites would primarily be
based on actual enrollment ratios in the regions and further supported by the results of school mapping,
(see institutional development component below). The construction program will support the
Government's decision to unify primary education into a single seven grade cycle.
Communities will build many of these schools through a Community School Program (CSP). The basic
principle underlying the design of the CSP is to maintain and strengthen the ability of communities to build
their own schools while improving the functionality and lifespan of the structures. Under this program,
future primary school construction by MINED will increasingly involve the participation of communities in
the planning and implementation of projects; more sustainable construction technology; and decentralized
management of the delivery process. MINED will build secondary school classrooms, houses, and
dormitories through traditional procurement methods. Annex 13 discusses the school building and
rehabilitation program in detail.
The program will finance (a) the construction of about 12,000 primary school classrooms and related
latrines and water supply; (b) the construction of about 2,100 staff houses for primary schools and 250 for
lower secondary schools; (c) construction of 25 lower secondary schools and 4 upper secondary schools
and dormitories; (d) rehabilitation of 15 existing lower secondary schools and 12 dornitories; (e) related
furniture and equipment; and (f) the costs of building design and supervision.
2.2    Girls' education initiatives (US$ 8.9 million total; IDA US$ 4.3 million). Socioeconomic,
geographical and cultural constraints cause great variance in girls' enrollment and completion across
regions. To encourage the enrollment and retention of girls at all levels of the educational system, the
program will provide scholarships for girls in upper primary and secondary schools, which will also serve
to increase the pool of female candidates for the teaching service; support an annual national award for best



Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
stories written with women as protagonists ("Women in Words"); introduce initiatives targeted at low-
income families and particularly girls, through the Caixa Escolar system; introduce changes in teacher
training programs to develop a school environment that is sensitive to gender issues; and increase the
capacity for central and provincial coordination of gender initiatives by establishing and training a Gender
Unit at the national level and in each province. Activities in other subcomponents will also benefit girls,
including the expansion of nonformal education, the provision of safe boarding facilities for female
students, and the unification of lower and upper primary schooling.
The program will finance (a) prizes and fellowships for girl students; (b) craft materials; (c) social studies
and surveys; (d) training of trainers for gender sensitivity courses; (e) evaluation visits; (f) gender-related
workshops, seminars and studv tours; (g) learning materials and modules; and (h) the costs of establishing
national and provincial Gender Units. including equipment, furniture and operating costs.
2.3    Nonformal education (US$ 5.5 million; IDA US$0.3 million). The program will promote the
establishment of nonformal education initiatives as alternative ways of providing literacy and other
education to girls, school dropouts, street children and adults. The Government is now developing a
strategy and will set targets after it is finalized MINED will continue to explore the application of new
technologies in the education system. in order to offer educational opportunities to the greatest possible
number of Mozamnbicans The program will provide books to local libraries and support the activities of
cultural centers.
The program will finance (a) technical assistance, training and printing costs to develop literacy courses for
women and girls, and the costs of monitoring and evaluating the program-; (b) training of trainers in
literacy. (c) technical assistance and funds for a rural credit and microenterprise scheme; (d) modules,
supervision and evaluation of courses for school dropouts; (e) materials, supervision and evaluation of
vocational training for students without access to school; (f) training, library materials, equipment and
furniture for cultural centers, and (g) training, technical assistance, and related equipment and vehicles for
adult literacy courses.
2.4    Special education (USS 1.6 million total; no IDA funding). The program will develop a strategy
for providing education to children with special needs by integrating them into regular lower primary
education. A model will be tested in four schools. The program will also develop training programs and
teaching tools for special education teachers, as well as strengthen and widen the special education schools
network.
The program will finance (a) training, fellowships, course development and related equipment costs for
establishing a model in special education, (b) training of teachers; and (c) rehabilitation and expansion of
special education schools.
Component 3: MINED Institutional Capacity, US$ 325.4 million (IDA: US$ 8.3 million)
Objective. The main objective of this component is to modernize and strengthen the education sector
management, a necessary condition to achieve the education plan's objectives to expand access and improve
quality. It will reinforce MINED's capacity to set policies and guidelines for the sector and improve the
education system's capacity for delivering education services effectively and efficiently.
Capacity building is integral to activities in all components, which fund activities such as the training of
school directors, upgrading for the ZIPs and the training of inspectors. Physical improvements, including
computenzation and associated training, will support these efforts. With the assistance of the Swedish



Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
government (ASDI), MINED has already begun implementing an overall institution building program. It
will support (i) development of management systems; (ii) development of policy and planning; (iii)
development of project management; (iv) improvement of MINED's financial management system;
(v) improvement of MINED's human resources system; and (vi) development of a public relations function
within MINED. The Ministry has already held a management seminar for provinces and districts to
familiarize them with the ESSP, to incorporate them into the planning process, and to begin discussion on
management issues. Additional seminars will continue to prepare the way for organizational development
and capacity building in the central MINED as well as the provinces and districts.
3.1    Organizational structure and decentralization (US$ 318.5 million total, including MINED
salaries; IDA US$ 4.1 million). This subcomponent will help MINED achieve the goals of the education
program, support the decentralization of functions, and establish new ways to deliver services. MINED
will test and develop new processes, procedures and systems during the first years of program
implementation. Implementation will be based on the review of MlNED's organizational structure at the
central and provincial levels.
This subcomponent will address the changes needed in MINED by adjusting its organizational structure as
needed and revising the legal framework of the education sector to support education activities at the
provincial and school levels. The program will improve MINED's (central and subnational units')
information, supervision, communication, and evaluation and monitoring systems. To better target ESSP
funding, the Ministry will also develop a school mapping system. MINED will revise teachers' career plan
and the performance incentive system for teachers, principals, supervisors and technical staff. As the
foundation for decentralization, MINED will establish a staff development program to improve the
technical capabilities of management, technical/pedagogical, and administrative staff to support reforms.
Training and technical assistance will help MINED develop program management capacity within central
and provincial directorates.
The program will finance (a) seminars on education management for national, provincial and district
officers; (b) seminars and technical assistance on gender and education; (c) courses on education planning
and administration; (d) equipment, software and technical assistance for school information systems,
including school mapping; and (e) the costs of MINED organizational development, including technical
assistance, transport and computer equipment, training, studies and operational expenses.
3.2 Policy and planning (US$ 1.6 million total; IDA US$ 1.0 million). This subcomponent aims to
create capacity within MINED at the central, provincial and district levels to analyze policy issues, monitor
and evaluate the education program on a yearly basis, and track and disseminate educational research in the
country. This subcomponent also aims to establish mechanisms to increase parent and community
participation. It will improve school autonomy and decentralization of the decision-making process at the
school and local levels to better address students' and communities' needs and expectations. The
subcomponent will also use various strategies to establish a new relationship between schools,
commnunities, and ZIPs. The program will support community and school participation by encouraging
formation of PTAs and increasing availability of financial resources and materials directly at the school
level (see subcomponent 1.6).
MINED has already carried out extensive capacity building to improve policy and planning at the center
and will now place increasing emphasis on the provinces and districts. Policy and planning development
are integral to efforts in organizational development and decentralization (see above), so key program costs
(e.g., information systems and school mapping) are included under subcomponent 3.1.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 8
3.3    Financial Management (US$ 3.1 million total; IDA US$ 2.2 million). This subcomponent will
provide crucial support for the decentralization effort by establishing systems of financial management for
all levels and providing training for staff at all levels. The program will introduce program budgeting for
the MINED at the central, provincial, district and school budgets.
The program will finance (a) computers and other related equipment and furniture for MINED center and
provinces; (b) technical assistance in financial management, audits, procurement and computer operations;
and (c) training for national and provincial finance and administration staff
3.4    Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 2.2 million; IDA US$ 1.0 million). The ESSP is a
comprehensive strategic program for the sector and will be implemented as a rolling plan. For this reason,
monitoring and evaluation of the impact of investments on the education system and learning outcomes are
crucial. The ESSP-financed studies will include an analysis of education costs and financing, provide
detailed guidance on capacity building, and prepare a strategy for improving quality and efficiency at higher
education.
MINED will monitor and evaluate the program within the structure set up for implementation and detailed
terms of reference for key units within this structure. Monitoring and outcome indicators (see Annex 1)
will allow MINED to measure progress and will form the basis for joint supervisions with other donors.
Each unit involved with implementation will develop instruments for monitoring its respective component,
while the Planning Unit and the DAF will consolidate and analyze statistical, financial, and physical data on
the rate of implementation. The new PMR system will provide information on output indicators such as
expenditures, units built and number of teachers trained.
The program will finance the costs of studies and other information gathering and analysis, including the
related costs of technical assistance, training, and equipment.
Component 4: Technical Education Strategy, (US$ 42.1million; IDA US$ 0.5 million)
Objective. The program aims to make technical education more relevant and responsive to the needs of the
labor market and the public and private sector. The Government will prepare a strategy for the subsector,
which will form the basis for assistance during the second phase of the current program.
Activities. The ESSP includes notional estimates for developing the technical and vocational system
during the program period, with strong private sector involvement. Donors have expressed a willingness to
help. However, support through the ESSP will be conditional on devising an overall strategy for this
subsector that addresses its weaknesses. Following further study, the Government and donors would reach
agreement in 1999 on a way forward. IDA will fund the preparation of a strategy study on the reform of
the technical education system under the ongoing Capacity Building - Human Resources Development
Project. Once the basic education program is well underway and the strategy for vocational and technical
education is agreed, the Government and its partners can turn their attention not only to vocational and
technical education but also to the higher education system.



Republic of Mozambique
EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGIC PROGRAM (ESSP)                                                                                       %      % Total
Components Prograwm Cost Summary                           (Meticaisl '000, '000)                   (USS '000)               Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign     Total-       Local       Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
A. Quality of Education
A.1 .Teacher Training                                  193,1     103.3      296.4       16,093.3     8,607.6     24,700.9       35        4
A.2.Pedagogical Support forTeachers                     76.1     136.3      212A4        6339,2      11,360.3    17,699.4       64        3
A.3.Curriculum Transformation                           28.0      56.9       84.9        2,329.3     4,741,8      7,071.0       67        1
A.4.Leamlng Materials                                   76.8     402.0      478.8        6,397.6    33,498.6     39,896.3       84        6
A.5.Assessment&Examinations                             13.5      14.9       28.4        1,124.0      1,245.0     2,369.0       53 
A,6.Direct Support for Schools                             -     163.7      163.7             -      13,640.8    13,640.8      100        2
A.7.Training of School Directors                        36.2        1.3      37.5        3,015.2       110.4      3,125.7        4        -
Subtotal Quality of Education                            423.6     878.5    1,302.0       35,298.6     73,204,5    108,503.1      67       16
B. Access to Education
B.1 .Schoot&Cassroom Construction&Rehab.             1,562.9     563.8    2,126.7      130,245.6    46,979.6    177,225.2       27       26
B.2.Girls Education Initiatives                         97.6       9.6      107.3        8,135.1       803.5      8,938.6        9        1
B.3.Non-formal Education                                27.9      38.2       66.1        2,328.4     3,182.9      5,51 1.3      58        1
BA4.Special Education                                   14.8       4.9       19.7        1,230.5       408.5      1,639,1       25        -
Subtotal Access to Education                           1,703.3      616.5    2,319.8     141,939.6     51,374.6    193,314.2      27       29
C. MINED Institutional Capacity
CA1 Organizational Structure&Decentralization        3,582.5     239.9    3,822.4      298,537.6    19,995.3    318,532.9        6       48
C.2.Poficy&Planning                                      7.5      11.9       19.4         626.0        993.0      1,619.0       61-
C.3,Financial Management                                 3.8      33.2       37.0         317.0       2,768,9     3,085.9       90 
CA4.Mornltoring and Evaluation                          13.2      13.2       26.4        1,100.0      1,100.0     2,200.0       50        -
Subtotal MINED Institutional Capacity                  3,607.0     298.3    3,905.3      300,580.6     24,857.2    325,437.8       8       49
D. Technical Education Strategy
D.1 .Technical Education                               180.1     325.2      505.3       15,007.8    27,103.4     42,111.2       64        6
Subtotal Technical Education Strategy                    180.1     325.2      505.3       15,007.8     27,103.4    42,111.2       64        6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    5,913.9    2,118.5    8,032.4    492,826.6    176,539,6    669,366.2       26      100
Physical Contingencies                                 100.5     148.2      248.7        8,371.0     12,349.9    20,720.9       60        3
Price Contingencies                                        -     325.0      325.0             -     27,081.7     27,081.7      100        4
Total PROGRAM COSTS                                     6,014.4    2,591.7    8,606.0    501,197.6    215,971.~2    717,168.8      30      107
cc



Republic of Mozambique
EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGIC PROGRAM (ESSP)
Program Components by Year - Base Costs
(USS '000)                                                                             Base Cost
1999        2000         2001        2002         2003         Total
A. Quality of Education
A.1 .Teacher Training                                   3,323.6     11,282.8      4,558.3      3,027.6      2,508.6     24,700.9
A.2.Pedagogical Support for Teachers                    3,278.7      3,598.2      4,106.2      3,862.2      2,854.2     17,699.4
A.3.CuriculumTransformation                             1,605.1      1,484.6      1,410.1      1,455.6      1,115.6      7,071.0
A.4.Learning Materials                                  7,657.9      7,184.1      7,485.5      8,028.3      9,540.5     39,896.3
A.5.Assessment&Examinations                               603.6        463.8        433.9       433.9        433.9       2,369.0
A.6.Direct Support for Schools                          1,000.0      1,156.3      3,156.3      4,187.5      4,140.7     13,640.8
A.7.Training of School Directors                          125.0        606.1        606.1       894,3        894.3       3,125 7
Subtotal Quality of Education                             17,593.9    25,775 8     21,756.3     21,889.4     21,487.7    108,503.1
B. Access to Education
B.1 .School&Classroom Construction&Rehab.              10,088.7     34,695.2     39,408.4     51,043.3     41,989.7    177,225 2
B.2.Girls' Education Initiatives                        2,493.7      2,375.7      2,299.8      1,312.1       457.2       8,938.6
B.3.Non-formal Education                                1,761.3      1,259.8      1,156 6       681 8        651.8       5,511.3
B.4.Special Education                                     215.0        229.7        419.7       373.4        401.2       1,639.1
Subtotal Access to Education                              14,558.7    38,560.4     43,284.5     53,410.7     43,499.9    193,314.2
C. MINED Institutional Capacity
C.1.0rganizational Structure&Decentralization          49,481.7     60,732.3     63,295 2     69,438.6     75,585.0    318,532.9
C.2.Policy&Planning                                       745.0        305.0        207.5       207.5        154.0       1,619.0
C.3.Financial Management                                 1,521.5     1,115.1        255.4       104.2         89.7       3,085.9
C.4.Monitoring and Evaluation                             200.0        500.0        500.0       500.0        500.0       2,200.0
Subtotal MINED Institutional Capaciw                     51,948 2     62,652 4     64,258 2     70,250.3     76,328 7    325,437.8
D. Technical Education Strategy
D.1.Technical Education                                 1,985.6      6,370.2     12,371.2      9,877.5     11,506.6     42,111.2
Subtotal Technical Education Strategy                      1,985.6     6,370.2     12,371 .2     9,877.5     11,506.6     42,111 .2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      86,086.5    133,358.9    141,670.2    155,427.8    152,822.9    669,366.2
Physical Contingencies                                  1,924.9      5,378.4      4,794 8      4,773.7      3,849.1     20,720.9
Price Contingencies                                       583.0      3,066,2      5,429.2      8,041.2      9,962.1     27,081.7
Total PROGRAM COSTS                                       88,594.4    141,803.5    151,894.1    168,242.7    166,634.1    717,168.8
Taxes                                                               -            -            -            -                  -
Foreign Exchange                                       23,902.1     43,278.3     47,172.0     51,142.7     50,476.1    215,971.2



Republic of Mozambique
EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGIC PROGRAM (ESSP)
Program Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)                                                                  Totals Including Contingencies
1999       2000         2001        2002         2003        Total
A. Quality of Education
A.1.Teacher Training                                   3,412.4     12,664.9     4,832.3      3,266.6     2,739.5     26,915.7
A.2.Pedagogical Support for Teachers                   3,582.7     4,097.9      4,837.3      4,715.4     3,633.4     20,866.8
A.3.Curriculum Transformation                          1,679.1      1,559.9     1,529.5      1,633.6     1,307.9      7,710.1
A.4.Leaming Materials                                  8,816.2      8,682.6     9,476.9     10,633.9    13,207.5     50,817.2
A.5.Assessment&Examinations                             631.2        489.7       465.7        477.7        490.3      2,554.6
A.6.Direct Support for Schools                         1,025.0      1,244.5     3,566.8      4,968.7     5,158.9     15,963.9
A.7.Training of School Directors                         125.0       609.2       610.5        902.8        904.9      3,152.4
Subtotal Quality of Education                           19,271.8    29,348.8     25,319.0     26,598.8    27,442.4    127,980.7
B. Access to Education
B.1.School&Classroom Construction&Rehab.              10,408.2    37,353.3     42,628.9    55,777.1     45,845.5    192,013.0
B.2.Girls' Education Initiatives                       2,523.6     2,383.4      2,310.9      1,318.5      463.1       8,999.5
B.3.Non-formal Education                               1,837.8      1,367.1     1,289.0       789.8       782.2       6,065.9
B.4.Special Education                                   225.0        245.2       470.2        426.0        462.2      1,828.5
Subtotal Access to Education                            14,994.5    41,349.0     46,699.0     58,311.4    47,553.0    208,906.9
C. MINED Institutional Capacity
C.l.Organizational Structure&Decentralization         49,589.7    61,779.4     64,218.3    70,486.5     76,377.0    322,450.9
C.2.Policy&Planning                                     762.3        318.6       216.4        220.1        166.7      1,684.1
C.3.Financial Management                               1,601.2      1,193.8      282.6        117.4        106.4      3,301.4
C.4.Monitoring and Evaluation                           202.5        519.1       532.5        546.6        561 5      2,362.2
Subtotal MINED lnstitutional Capacity                   52,155.7    63,810.9     65,249.8    71,370.6     77,211.6    329,798.7
D. Technical Education Strategy
D.1.Technical Education                                2,172.4     7,294.9     14,626.3     11,961.9    14,427.1     50,482.6
Subtotal Technical Education Strategy                    2,172.4     7,294.9     14,626.3     11,961.9    14,427.1     50,482.6
Total PROGRAM COSTS                                      88,594.4    141,803.5    151,894.1    168,242.7    166,634.1    717,168.8
-o
(b



Republic of Mozambique
EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGIC PROGRAM (ESSP)                                                                                                 %      % Total
Expenditure Accounts Program Cost Sunmmary                          (Meticais/ '000, '000)                    (USS '000)               Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign     Total        Local       Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
I. Investrent Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Construction of New EPI-2 Classrooms&Teacher Houses
Classrooms (EP1 -2)                                         890.1      222.5    1,112.6      74,175.4     18,543.8     92,719.2       20       14
TeacherHousesforEP1-2Classrooms/a                           141.1       35.3      176.4      11,762.4      2,940.6     14,703.0       20        2
Subtotal Const.of New EPI-2 Classrooms&Teacher Houses        1,031.3     257.8    1,289.1      85,937.8     21,484.4    107,422.2       20       16
2. Construction of ESGI-2 Schools,Staff Houses&Dotrnitories
Secondary Schools (ESG-1)                                   136.3       34.1      170.3      11,356.2      2,839.1     14,195.3       20        2
Pre University Schools (ESG-2)                               65.7       16.4       82.2       5,478.4      1,369.6      6,848.0       20        1
Dormitories for ESG-2 Schools                                27.8        7.0       34.8       2,316.8        579.2      2,896.0       20        -
Teacher Houses for ESG1 -2 Schools                           48.0       12.0       60.0       4,000.0      1,000.0      5,000.0       20        1
Subtotal Const.of ESGI-2 Schools,Staff Houses&Dormnitories    277.8       69.5      347.3      23,151.4      5,787.9     28,939.3       20        4
3. Construction of Other Schools&Structures
Primary Teacher Training Schools (IMAPs)                     60.0       15.0       75.0       5,000.0      1,250.0      6,250.0       20        1
InstitutesforTeacher Improvement (lAPs)                       8.5        2.1       10.7         710.4        177.6        888.0       20         -
Special Education Schools                                     7.6        1.9        9.5         636.0        159.0        795.0       20         -
Technical Schools                                            87.4       21.9      109.3       7,283.7      1,820.9      9,104.7       20        1
Subtotal Construction of Other Schools&Structures             163.6       40.9      204.5      13,630.1      3,407.5     17,037.7       20        3
4. Rehabilitation of Civil Works
Rehabilitation of Existing Secondary Schools (ESG-1)         30.4        7.6       38.0       2,532.0        633.0      3,165.0       20         -
Rehabilitation of Existing ESG-1 Dormitories                 22.6        5.6       28.2       1,881.6        470.4      2,352.0       20         -
Rehabilitation of Existing ZIPs                              52.4       13.1       65.5       4,368.0      1,092.0      5,460.0       20        1
Rehabilitation of NUFORPEs                                    0.3        0.1        0.4          28.0          7.0         35.0       20         -
Rehabilitation of Other Civil Works                           2.0        0.5        2.5         164.0         41.0        205.0       20         -
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Civil Works                        107.7       26.9      134.6       8,973.6      2,243.4     11,217.0       20        2
5. Supervision Expenses for Civil Works
Spvn.of EPI-2 Clasrooms                                      33.7        8.4      42.1        2,809.0        702.2      3,511.2       20        1
Spvn.Secondary Schools (ESG-1)                               13.6        3.4       17.0       1,135.6        283.9      1,419.5       20         -
Spvn.Pre University Schools (ESG-2)                           3.3        0.8       4.1          273.9         68.5        342.4       20         -
Spvn.lnstitutes for Teacher Improvement (lAPs)                0.9        0.2        1.1          71.0         17.8         88.8       20         -
Spvn.Other Civil Works                                        6.4        1.6        8.0         536.5        134.1        670.7       20         -
Subtotal Supervision Expenses for Civil Works                  57.9       14.5       72.4       4,826.1      1,206.5      6,032.6       20         1
Subtotal Civil Works                                           1,638.2     409.6    2,047.8      136,519.0    34,129.7    170,648.7       20       25
B. Vehicles,Motorcycles&Bicycles /b
Purchase of New Vehicles                                          -       86.4       86.4             -      7,203.0      7,203.0      100        1
Motorcydes                                                        -       27.1       27.1             -      2,255.0      2,255.0      100         -
Subtotal Vehicles,Motorcycles&Bicycles                              -      113.5      113.5             -      9,458.0      9,458.0      100         1
o >



C. Equipment&Fumiture
Equipment                                                         -      235.7      235.7             -     19,640.6     19,640.6      100        3
Fumiture                                                       46.6      264.0      310.6       3,882.3     21,999.8     25,882.1       85        4
Subtotal Equipnent&Fumiture                                      46.6      499.7      546.3       3,882.3     41,640.4     45,522.7       91        7
D. Technical Assistance
Intemational Consultants                                          -      125.9      125.9             -     10,492.7     10,492.7      100        2
Local Consultants                                               2.4       45.2       47.6         198.2      3,766.4      3,964.7       95        1
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                     2.4      171.1      173.5         198.2      14,259.2     14,457.4      99        2
E. Training
Training Abroad                                                   -       11.1       11.1             -        922.2        922.2      100
Training in Country                                            89.7       89.7      179.3        7,472.0      7,472.0    14,944.0       50        2
Seminars&WoArkshops                                            28.9        7.2       36.1        2,405.7       601.4      3,007.2       20
Study Tours                                                       -        4.1        4.1             -        337.7        337.7      100
Fellowships                                                       -        2.2        2.2             -        180.0        180.0      100
Local Fellowships                                              84.0          -       84.0        6,996.5           -      6,996.5         -       1
Subtotal Training                                               202.5      114.2      316.6       16,874.2      9,513.3     26,387.5       36       4
F. Studies
Studies                                                        15.2       15.2       30.3        1,262.8      1,262.8      2,525.6      50
G. Textbooks&Education Materials
Textbooks                                                      63.8      361.8      425.6        5,320.4     30,148.8     35,469.2      85        5
Teacher Materials(Manuals&Kits)                                24.4      138.4      162.8        2,035.6     11,534.9     13,570.5      85        2
Leaming Materials                                               1.6        8.9       10.4         130.5        739.3        869.8       85
Subtotal Textbooks&Education Materials                           89.8      509.1      598.9        7,486.4     42,423.0     49,909.5       85       7
H. School Grant
School Grant(Direct Support to Schools)                           -      163.7      163.7             -      13,640.8     13,640.8     100        2
I. Operational Expenses
Travel&Subsistence /c                                         107.9          -      107.9        8,995.3           -       8,995.3        -       1
Printing&Distribution                                           4.4        1.1        5.5         364.1         91.0        455.1       20         -
Communication&Dissemination                                     8.4          -        8.4         699.1            -        699.1         -
Miscellaneous Consurmables&Materials                           64.4       16.1       80.5        5,369.1      1,342.3      6,711.4      20        1
Subtotal Operational Expenses                                   185.1       17.2      202 3       15,427.5      1,433.3     16,860.8        9       3
Total Investment Costs                                           2,179.8    2,013.1    4,192.9     181,650.5    167,760.5    349,411.0       48      52
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries
Salaries                                                     3,517.2         -    3,517.2      293,100.0           -    293,100.0         -      44
B. Operating&Maintenance Costs
1. Operating&Maint.Cost for Vehicles&Equiprnent
O&M for Vehicles                                             44.5       44.5       89.0        3,707.1      3,707.1      7,414.1      50        1
O&M for Equipment                                            46.9       46.9       93.8        3,909.9      3,909.9      7,819.8      50        1
Subtotal Operating&Maint.Cost for Vehicles&Equiprnent          91.4       91.4      182 8        7,617.0      7,617.0     15,233.9       50       2
Dz
w



2. Operating&Maintenance Costs for Civil Works
O&M for Primary Schools (EP1-2)                              78.2        8.7       86.9       6,515.1        723.9      7,239.0       10        1
O&M for Secondary Schools (ESG-1)                            21.6        2.4       24.0       1,803.3        200.4      2,003.6       10
O&M for Pre-university Schools (ESG-2)                        3.7        0.4        4.1         308.2         34.2        342.4       10
O&M for Primary Teacher Training Schools (IMAPs)             10.8        1.2       12.0         900.0        100.0      1,000.0       10
O&M for Institutes for Teacher Improvement (lAPs)             1.6        0.2        1.8         133.2         14.8        148.0       10
O&M for Dormitories ESG-1                                     1.3        0.1        1.4         105.8         11.8        117.6       10
O&M for Dormitories ESG-2                                     4.7        0.5        5.2         391.0         43.4        434.4       10
O&M for Special Education Schools                             0.9        0.1        1.0          77.6          8.6         86.3       10
O&M for Other Civil Works                                     2.7        0.3        3.0         225.0         25.0        250.0       10
Subtotal Operating&Maintenance Costs for Civil Works          125.5       13.9      139.5      10,459.2      1,162.1     11,621.3       10        2
Subtotal Operating&Maintenance Costs                            216.9      105.3      322.3      18,076.1      8,779.1     26,855.2       33        4
Total Recurrent Costs                                            3,734.1     105.3    3,839.5     311,176.1       8,779.1    319,955.2       3       48
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             5,913.9    2,118.5    8,032.4     492,826.6    176,539.6    669,366.2       26      100
Physical Contingencies                                          100.5      148.2      248.7       8,371.0     12,349.9     20,720.9       60        3
Price Contngencies                                                  -      325.0      325.0             -     27,081.7     27,081.7      100        4
Total PROGRAM COSTS                                              6,014.4    2,591.7    8,606.0     501,197.6    215,971.2    717,168.8       30      107
b- There is one Teacher House (two rooms without fumiture) for every five EP1 -2 Classroom.
\b Includes 10% Physical Contingencies for variation in quantRties.
\c Includes: Per Diem; Air Travel & Ground Transportation.
<10
0



Republic of Mozambique
EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGIC PROGRAM (ESSP)
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(USS '000)                                                                                   Base Cost                               Foreign Exchange
1999       2000        2001       2002        2003        Total       %      Amount
I. Investtent Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Construction of New EPI-2 Classrooms&Teacher Houses
Classrooms (EP1 -2)                                         6,691.2    15,788.5    19,620.5    26,547.5    24,071.5    92,719.2   20.0    18,543.8
Teacher Houses for EP1-2 Classrooms /a                        887.4     2,610.0     3,132.0    4,176.0     3,897.6    14,703.0    20.0      2,940.6
Subtotal Const.of New EPI-2 Classrooms&Teacher Houses          7,578.6    18,398.5    22,752.5    30,723.5    27,969.1   107,422.2    20.0    21,484.4
2. Construction of ESG1-2 Schools,Staff Houses & Dormitories
Secondary Schools (ESG-1)                                         -     2,839.1     5,678.1    2,839.1     2,839.1    14,195.3    20.0      2,839.1
Pre University Schools (ESG-2)                                    -     3,424.0          -     3,424.0           -     6,848.0    20.0      1,369.6
Dormitories for ESG-2 Schools                                     -     1,448.0          -      1,448.0          -     2,896.0    20.0       579.2
Teacher Houses for ESG1 -2 Schools                                -     1,000.0     2,000.0     1,000.0    1,000.0     5,000.0    20.0      1,000.0
Subtotal Const.of ESGI-2 Schools,Staff Houses& Dorrnitories         -     8,711.1     7,678.1     8,711.1    3,839.1    28,939.3    20.0      5,787.9
3. Construction of Other Schools&Structures
Primary Teacher Training Schools (IMAPs)                          -     6,250.0          -           -           -     6,250.0    20.0      1,250.0
Institutes for Teacher Improvement (lAPs)                         -       888.0          -           -           -       888.0    20.0       177.6
Special Education Schools                                      30.0        30.0      240.0       240.0       255.0       795.0    20.0       159.0
Technical Schools                                             673.1     2,203.0     3,821.5     1,432.4      974.6     9,104.7    20.0      1,820.9
Subtotal Construction of Other Schools&Structures               703.1     9,371.0     4,061.5     1,672.4     1,229.6    17,037.7    20.0     3,407.5
4. Rehabilitation of Civil Works
Rehabilitation of Existing Secondary Schools (ESG-1)          633.0       633.0      633.0       633.0       633.0     3,165.0    20.0       633.0
Rehabilitation of Existing ESG-1 Dormitores                   392.0       392.0      588.0       588.0       392.0     2,352.0    20.0       470.4
Rehabilitation of Existing ZIPs                               429.0       780.0     1,209.0     1,989.0    1,053.0     5,460.0    20.0      1,092.0
Rehabilitation of NUFORPEs                                     17.5        17.5          -           -           -        35.0    20.0         7.0
Rehabilitation of Other Civil Works                            55.0        90.0       60.0           -           -       205.0    20.0        41.0
Subtotal Rehabiliation of Civil Works                          1,526.5    1,912.5     2,490.0     3,210.0     2,078 0    11,217.0    20.0     2,243.4
5. Supervision Expenses for Civil Works
Spvn.of EP1 -2 Clasrooms                                      243.2       598.5      750.5       997.5       921.5     3,511.2    20.0       702.2
Spvn.Secondary Schools (ESG-1)                                    -       283.9      567.8       283.9       283.9     1,419.5    20.0       283.9
Spvn.Pre University Schools (ESG-2)                               -       171.2          -       171.2           -       342.4    20.0        68.5
Spvn.lnstitutes for Teacher Improvement (lAPs)                    -        88.8          -           -           -        88.8    20.0        17.8
Spvn.Other Civil Works                                         51.3       173.7      161.1       183.5       101,3       670.7    20.0       134.1
Subtotal Supervision Expenses for Civil Works                   294.5      1,316.1    1,479.4     1,636.1     1,306.7    6,032.6    20.0      1,206.5
Subtotal Civil Works                                            10,102.7    39,709.1    38,461.4    45,953.0    36,422.5   170,648.7   20.0    34,129.7
B. Vehicies,Motorcycles&Bicycles /b
Purchase of New Vehicles                                         59.8     3,495.4     2,152.8     1,495.0          -     7,203.0   100.0      7,203.0
Motorcycles                                                         -     2,255.0          -           -           -     2,255.0   100.0      2,255.0
Subtotal Vehicles,Motorcycles&Bicycles                             59.8      5,750.4    2,152.8     1,495.0                9,458.0    100.0     9,458.0
'a0
(D



C. Equipment&Furniture
Equipment                                                     2,184.0     2,919.9    5,457.7     4,401.1     4,677.9    19,640.6   100.0    19,640.6
Furniture                                                     1,237.7     4,912.2    5,724.1     7,339.2     6,668.9    25,882.1    85.0    21,999.8
Subtotal Equipment&Fumiture                                     3,421.7     7,832.1    11,181.8    11,740.4    11,346.8    45,522.7    91.5    41,640.4
0. Technical Assistance
Intemational Consultants                                      3,650.4     3,102.8    2,008.3      903.4       827.9    10,492.7   100.0    10,492.7
Local Consultants                                             1,303.0      970.5       932.0      425.9       333.4     3,964,7    95.0      3,766.4
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                   4,953.4     4,073.2    2,940.3     1,329.3     1,161.3    14,457.4    98.6    14,259.2
E. Training
Training Abroad                                                 250.5      189.2       183.5       180.0      119.0       922.2   100.0       922.2
Training in Country                                           3,469.7     3,330.6    3,510.0     2,703.2     1,930.5    14,944.0    50.0     7,472.0
Seminars&Workshops                                              714.0      885.7       515.8      458.0       433.5     3,007.2    20.0       601.4
Study Tours                                                      63.5      102.6        81.6       45.0        45.0       337.7   100.0       337.7
Fellowships                                                      50.0       40.0        30.0       30.0        30.0       180.0   100.0       180.0
Local Fellowships                                             1,414.9     2,038.9    2,044.9     1,144.9      352.9     6,996.5        -
Subtotal Training                                               5,962.6     6,587.0    6,365.8     4,561.1     2,911.0    26,387.5    36.1     9,513.3
F. Studies
Studies                                                         399.3      626.3       500.0      500.0       500,0     2,525.6    50.0      1,262.8
G. Textbooks&Education Materials
Textbooks                                                     5,764.4     6,327.2    6,875.7     7,511.0     8,990.8    35,469.2    85.0    30,148.8
Teacher Materials(Manuals&Kits)                               3,362.7     2,559.6     2,540.5    2,507.2     2,600.5    13,570.5    85.0    11,534.9
Leaming Materials                                               173.8      174.4       174.2       174.1      173.4       869.8    85.0       739.3
Subootal Textbooks&Education Materials                          9,300.9     9,061.1    9,590.4    10,192.3    11,764.7    49,909.5    85.0    42,423.0
H. School Grant
School Grant(Direct Supportto Schools)                        1,000.0     1,156.3     3,156.3    4,187.5     4,140.7    13,640.8   100.0    13,640.8
1. Operational Expenses
Travel&Subsistence /c                                         1,582.7     1,921.9     2,135.4    1,729.8     1,625.5     8,995.3       -           -
Printing&Distribution                                           201.6       79.5        58.0        58.0       58.0       455.1     20.0       91.0
Communication&Dissemiriation                                    160.2      160.2       160.2       109.2      109.2       699.1        -          -
Miscellaneous ConsurnablesSMaterials                            825.6     1,271.6     1,643.0    1,527.6     1,443.7    6,711.4    20.0      1,342.3
Subtotal Operational Expenses                                   2,770,1     3,433.2    3,996.5     3,424.6     3,236.4    16,860.8     8.5     1 5  ,433.3
Total lnvestment Costs                                           37,970.5    78,226.8    78,345.3    83,383.1    71,483.3   349,411 0   48.0   167,760.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries
Salaries                                                     47,680.0    51,800.0    57,800.0    64,200.0    71,620.0   293,100.0      -           -
B. Operating&Maintenance Costs
1. Operating&Maint.Cost for Vehicies&Equipment
O&M for Vehicles                                               12.0     1,237.2     1,743.0    2,154.6     2,267.3    7,414.1     50.0     3,707.1
O&M for Equipment                                             204.1      645.4      1,494.4    2,247.4     3,228.5    7,819.8    50.0      3,909.9
Subtotal Operating&Maint.Cost for Vehicles&Equipment            216.1     1,882.6     3,237.4    4,402.1     5,495.8    15,233.9    50.0     7,617.0
o
;:



2. Operating&Maintenance Costs for Civil Works
O&M for Primary Schools (EP1-2)                               167.2       670.7     1,326.2     2,133.7    2,941.2     7,239.0     10.0      723.9
O&M for Secondary Schools (ESG-1)                              31.7       173.6      457.5       599.5       741.4     2,003.6     10.0      200.4
O&M for Pre-university Schools (ESG-2)                            -       171.2          -       171.2           -       342.4    10.0        34.2
O&M for Primary Teacher Training Schools (IMAPs)                  -       250.0      250.0       250.0       250.0     1,000.0     10.0      100.0
O&M for Institutes for Teacher Improvement (lAPs)                 -        37.0       37.0        37.0        37.0       148.0    10.0        14.8
O&M for Dormitories ESG-1                                      19.6        19.6       29.4        29.4        19.6       117.6    10.0        11.8
O&M for Dormitories ESG-2                                         -        72.4       72.4       144.8       144.8       434.4    10.0        43.4
O&M for Special Education Schools                               1.5         3.0       15.0        27.0        39.8        86.3     10.0        8.6
O&M for Other Civil Works                                         -        50.0      100.0        50.0        50.0       250.0     10.0       25.0
Subtotal Operating&Maintenance Costs for Civil Works            220.0     1,447.5     2,287.5     3,442.6    4,223.8    11,621.3     10.0     1,162.1
Subtotal Operating&Maintenance Costs                              436.0     3,330.1     5,524.9     7,844.6     9,719.6    26,855.2    32.7     8,779.1
Total Recurrent Costs                                             48,116.0    55,130.1    63,324.9    72,044.6    81,339.6   319,955.2    2.7     8,779.1
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                               86,086.5   133,358.9   141,670.2   155,427.8   152,822.9   669,366.2   26.4   176,539.6
Physical Contingencies                                           1,924.9    5,378.4     4,794.8     4,773.7     3,849.1    20,720.9    59.6    12,349.9
Price Contingencies                                               583.0     3,066.2     5,429.2     8,041.2    9,962.1    27,081.7    100.0    27,081.7
Total PROGRAM COSTS                                               88,594.4   141,803.5   151,894.1   168,242.7   166,634.1   717,168.8   30.1   215,971.2
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                                23,902.1    43,278.3    47,172.0    51,142.7    50,476.1   215,971.2
\a There is one Teacher House (two rooms without fumiture) for every five EP1 -2 Classroom.
\b Includes 10% Physical Contingencies for variation in quantities.
\c Includes: Per Diem; Air Travel & Ground Transportation.
bt



Republic of Mozambique
EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGIC PROGRAM (ESSP)
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)                                                                                           Totals Including Contingencies
1999        2000         2001          2002         2003         Total
1. Investrnent Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Construction of New EPI-2 Classrooms&Teacher Houses
Classrooms (EP1 -2)                                                       6,724.7     16,029.3     20,130.9     27,538.1      25,255.3     95,678.2
Teacher Houses for EP1-2 Classrooms/a                                      891.8       2,649.8      3,213.5      4,331.8       4,089.3     15,176.2
Subtotal Construction of New EP1-2 Classrooms&Teacher Houses                7,616.5     18,679.1     23,344.3     31,869.9      29,344.6    110,854.4
2. Construction of ESGI-2 Schools,Staff Houses & Dormnitories
Secondary Schools (ESG-1)                                                      -       3,314.7      6,699.7      3,386.7       3,425.5     16,826.6
Pre University Schools (ESG-2)                                                 -       3,997.6            -      4,084.5            -       8,082.2
Dormitories for ESG-2 Schools                                                  -       1,690.6            -       1,727.3           -       3,417.9
Teacher Houses for ESG1 -2 Schools                                             -       1,167.5      2,359.8       1,192.9      1,206.6      5,926.8
Subtotal Construction of ESGI-2 Schools,Staff Houses & Dormitories                -     10,170.5      9,059.5      10,391.5      4,632.0     34,253.6
3. Construction of Other Schools&Structures
Primary Teacher Training Schools (IMAPs)                                       -       7,297.1            -            -            -       7,297.1
Institutes for Teacher Improvement (lAPs)                                      -       1,036.8            -            -            -       1,036.8
Special Education Schools                                                   34.7          35.0        283.2        286.3        307.7         946.8
Technical Schools                                                          778.0       2,572.1      4,509.0       1,708.7      1,176.0     10,743.8
Subtotal Construction of Other Schools&Structures                            812.7      10,941.0      4,792.2       1,995.0      1,483.6     20,024.5
4. Rehabilitation of Civil Works
Rehabilitation of Existing Secondary Schools (ESG-1)                       731.6         739.1        746.9        755.1        763.7       3,736.4
Rehabilitation of Existing ESG-1 Dormitones                                453.1        457.7         693.8        701.4        473.0       2,778.9
Rehabilitation of Existing ZIPs                                            495.8         910.7      1,426.5      2,372.7       1,270.5      6,476.2
Rehabilitation of NUFORPEs                                                  20.2          20.4            -            -            -          40.7
Rehabilitation of Other Civil Works                                         63.6         105.1         70.8            -            -         239.4
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Civil Works                                      1,764.3      2,232.9      2,938.0       3,829.2      2,507.2     13,271.6
6. Supervision Expenses for Civil Works
Spvn.of EP1 -2 Clasrooms                                                   244.4         607.6        770.0       1,034.7       966.8       3,623.6
Spvn.Secondary Schools (ESG-1)                                                 -         288.2        582.6        294.5        297.9       1,463.2
Spvn.Pre University Schools (ESG-2)                                            -         173.8            -        177.6            -         351.4
Spvn.lnstitutes for Teacher Improvement (lAPs)                                 -          90.2            -            -            -          90.2
Spvn.Other Civil Works                                                      51.5         176.3        165.2        1903         106.2         689.6
Subtotal Supervision Expenses for Civil Works                                295.9       1,336.1      1,517.8       1,697.1      1,370.9      6,217.9
Subtotal Civil Works                                                         10,489.3     43,359.6     41,651.9      49,782.7     39,338.4    184,622.0
B. Vehicles,Motorcycles&Bicycles /b
Purchase of New Vehicles                                                      67.4       4,138.1      2,676.1       1,951.3            -      8,832.9
Motorcycles                                                                       -      2,426.9            -            -             -      2,426.9
Subtotal Vehicles,Motorcycles&Bicycles                                           67.4      6,565.1      2,676.1       1,951.3            -      11,259.9
aq
4o W



C. Equiprnent&Fumiture
Equipment                                                              2,462.5     3,456.8      6,784.3     5,744.4      6,411.0    24,858.9
Fumiture                                                               1,390.4     5,753.6      6,992.6     9,353.4      8,869.1    32,359.1
Subtotal Equipmrent&Furniture                                            3,852.8     9,210.4     13,776.9    15,097.8     15,280.0    57,218.0
D. Technical Assistance
Intemational Consultants                                               3,741.7     3,339.3      2,269.5     1,071.9      1,031.5    11,453.9
Local Consultants                                                      1,333.9     1,040.8      1,047.1       501.4       411.3      4,334.4
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                            5,075.6     4,380.1      3,316.6     1,573.3      1,442.8     15,788.3
E. Training
Training Abroad                                                          256.8       203.6       207.4        213.6       148.3       1,029.5
Training in Country                                                    3,513.1      3,457.6     3,738.2     2,955.3      2,167.9     15,832.1
Seminars&vtbrkshops                                                      717.6       899.2       529.2        475.1       454.9      3,076.1
Study Tours                                                              65.1        110.4        92.2         53.4        56.1        377.2
Fellowships                                                              51.3         43.1        33.9         35.6        37.4        201.2
Local Fellowships                                                      1,414.9     2,038.9      2,044.9      1,144.9      352.9      6,996.5
Subtotal Training                                                        6,018.7     6,752.8      6,645.8     4,877.9      3,217.3    27,512.6
F. Studies
Studies                                                                  404.3       650.2       532.5        546.6       561.5       2,695.1
G. Textbooks&Education Materials
Textbooks                                                              6,770.0      7,747.9     8,781.3     10,007.4    12,500.4     45,807.0
Teacher Matenals(Manuals&Kits)                                         3,777.5      2,998.0     3,103.6      3,195.3     3,458.4     16,532.8
Leaming Materials                                                        195.2       204.2        212.7       221.9       230.6       1,064.6
Subtotal Textbooks&Education Materials                                  10,742.7     10,950.1    12,097.5     13,424.6    16,189.5     63,404.5
H. School Grant
School Grant(Direct Support to Schools)                                1,025.0      1,244.5     3,566.8      4,968.7     5,158.9     15,963.9
I. Operational Expenses
Travel&Subsistence /c                                                  1,582.7      1,921.9     2,135.4      1,729.8     1,625.5      8,995.3
Printing&Distribution                                                    202.6        80.7        59.5         60.2        60.8        463.8
Communication&Dissemination                                              184.2       184.2        184.2       125.6        125.6       803.9
Miscellaneous Consumables&Materials                                      829.7      1,291.0     1,685.7      1,584.6     1,514.7      6,905.6
Subtotal Operational Expenses                                            2,799.3      3,477.9     4,064.8      3,500.1     3,326.6     17,168.6
Total Investment Costs                                                    40,475.1     86,590.6    88,328.9     95,723.2    84,514.9    395,632.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries
Salaries                                                              47,680.0     51,800.0    57,800.0     64,200.0    71,620.0    293,100.0
B. Operating&Maintenance Costs
1. Operating&Maint.Cost for Vehicles&Equipment
O&M for Vehicles                                                        12.1      1,284.4     1,856.3      2,355.6     2,546.1      8,054.5
O&M for Equipment                                                      206.7       670.0      1,591.6      2,457.1     3,625.4      8,550.8
Subtotal Operating&Maint.Cost for Vehicles&Equipment                     218.8      1,954.4     3,447.9      4,812.7     6,171.5     16,605.3
on 
4-



2. Operating&Maintenance Costs for Civil Works
O&M for Primary Schools (EP1-2)                                            167.6        675.8      1,343.4      2,173.5       3,013.5      7,373.9
O&M for Secondary Schools (ESG-1)                                           31.7        174.9        463.5        610.6        759.6       2,040.4
O&M for Pre-university Schools (ESG-2)                                         -        172.5            -        174.4            -        346.9
O&M for Primary Teacher Training Schools (IMAPs)                               -        251.9        253.3        254,7        256.1       1,016.0
O&M for Institutes for Teacher Improvement (lAPs)                              -         37.3         37.5         37.7         37.9         150.4
O&M for Dormitories ESG-1                                                   19.6         19.7         29.8         29.9         20.1         119.2
O&M for Dormitories ESG-2                                                      -         73.0         73.3        147.5        148.4        442.2
O&M for Special Education Schools                                            1.5          3.0         15.2         27.5         40.7         88.0
O&M for Other Civil Works                                                      -         50.4        101.3         50.9         51.2        253.8
Subtotal Operating&Maintenance Costs for Civil Works                         220.5      1,458.5      2,317.3      3,506.8       4,327.6     11,830.7
Subtotal Operating&Maintenance Costs                                           439.3      3,412.9      5,765.2       8,319.5     10,499.1     28,436.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                         48,119.3     55,212.9     63,565.2      72,519.5     82,119.1    321,536.0
Total PROGRAM COSTS                                                            88,594.4    141,803.5    151,894.1    168,2427     166,634.1    717,168.8
\a There is one Teacher House (two rooms wihout fumiture) for every five EPI -2 Classroom.
\b Includes 10% Physical Contingencies for variation in quantities.
\c Includes: Per Diem; Air Travel & Ground Transportation.
en0
Cr
-3>Cr



Republic of Mozambique
EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGIC PROGRAM (ESSP)
Program Components by Year - Investment/Recurrent Costs
(USS '000)                                                                              Totals Including Contingencies
1999        2000         2001         2002         2003        Total
A. Quality of Education
A.1.Teacher Training
Investment Costs                                                3,41 24     12,375.7      4,541.6      2,974.2      2,445.5    25,749.4
Recurrent Costs                                                      -        289.2        290.7        292.4        294.1       1,166.3
Subtotal A.1.Teacher Training                                     3,412.4     12,664.9      4,832.3      3,266.6      2,739.5     26,915.7
A.2.Pedagogical Support for Teachers
Investment Costs                                                3,582.7      4,097.9     4,837.3       4,715.4      3,633.4    20,866.8
A.3.Curnculum Transformation
Investment Costs                                                1,679.1      1,559.9      1,529.5      1,633.6      1,307.9      7,710.1
A.4.Leaming Materials
Investment Costs                                                8,808.3      8,674.5      9,468.6     10,625.4     13,198.7     50,775.6
Recurrent Costs                                                     7.9         8.1          8.3          8.5          8.8         41.6
Subtotal AA.Leaming Materials                                     8,816.2      8,682.6      9,476.9     10,633.9     13,207.5     50,817.2
A.5Assessment&Examinations
Investment Costs                                                 617.4        469.3        444.8        456.2        468.2       2,455.9
Recurrent Costs                                                    13.8        20.4         20.9         21.5         22.1         98.7
Subtotal A.5.Assessment&Examinations                                631.2       489.7        465.7        477.7        490.3       2,554.6
A.6.Direct Support for Schools
Investment Costs                                                1,025.0      1,244.5      3,566.8      4,968.7      5,158.9     15,963.9
A.7.Training of School Directors
Investment Costs                                                  125.0       609.2        610.5        902.8        904.9       3,152.4
Subtotal Quality of Education                                      19,271.8     29,348.8     25,319.0     26,598.8     27,442.4    127,980.7
B.-Access to Education
B.1.School&Classroom Construction&Rehab.
Investment Costs                                               10,189.2     36,187.0     40,617.6     52,590.1     41,852.7    181,436.5
Recurrent Costs                                                   219.0      1,166.3      2,011.3      3,186.9      3,992.8     10,576.4
Subtotal B.1.School&Classroom Construction&Rehab.                10,408.2     37,353.3     42,628.9     55,777.1     45,845.5    192,013.0
B.2.Girls' Education Initiatives
Investment Costs                                                2,508.9      2,368.3      2,295.4      1,302.6       446.8       8,922.0
Recurrent Costs                                                    14.7        15.1          15.5         15.9         16.3        77.5
Subtotal B.2.Girls' Education Initiatives                         2,523.6      2,383.4      2,310.9      1,318.5        463.1      8,999.5
B.3.Non-fofmal Education
Investment Costs                                                1,825.9      1,342.9      1,258.1       758.1        749.7       5,934.7
Recurrent Costs                                                    11.8         24.2        30.9          31.7         32.5        131.2
Subtotal B.3.Non-fomnal Education                                 1,837.8      1,367.1      1,289.0        789.8        782.2      6,065.9
ocy



B.4.Special Education
Investment Costs                                               220.9       233.3        445.8       389.1        411.8      1,700.8
Recurrent Costs                                                  4.1         11.9        24.4        36.9         50.4       127.7
Subtotal BA.Special Education                                    225.0       245.2        470.2       426.0        462.2      1,828.5
Subtotal Access to Education                                     14.994.5    41,349.0    46,699.0     58,311.4    47,553.0    208,906.9
C. MINED Institutional Capacity
C.1.Organizational Structure&Decentralization
Investment Costs                                              1,845.5     8,596.0     4,396.6      3,707.9     1,919.6     20,465.6
Recurrent Costs                                              47,744.2    53,183.4    59,821.7     66,778.6    74,457.4    301,985.3
Subtotal C.1.Organizational Structure&Decentralization         49,589.7    61,779.4    64,218.3     70,486.5    76,377.0    322,450.9
C.2.Policy&Planning
Investment Costs                                               762.3       308.2        205.7       209.2        155.5      1,640.9
Recurrent Costs                                                    -         10.4        10.7        10.9         11.2        43.2
Subtotal C.2.Policy&Planning                                     762.3       318.6        216.4       220.1        166.7      1,684.1
C.3.Financial Management
Investment Costs                                              1,559.0     1,150.6       238.2        71.8         59.6      3,079.2
Recurrent Costs                                                 42.2        43.3         44.4        45.6         46.8       222.2
Subtotal C.3.Financial Management                               1,601.2     1,193.8       282.6       117.4        106.4      3,301.4
CA.Monitoring and Evaluation
Investment Costs                                               202.5       519.1        532.5       546.6        561.5      2,362.2
Subtotal MINED Institutional Capacity                           52,155.7     63,810.9    65,249.8     71,370.6    77,211.6    329,798.7
D. Technical Education Strategy
D.1.Technical Education
Investment Costs                                              2,110.9     6,854.3    13,339.9      9,871.3    11,240.4     43,416.8
Recurrent Costs                                                 61.5       440.6      1,286.4      2,090.7     3,186.7      7,065.8
Subtotal Technical Education Strategy                            2,172.4      7,294.9    14,626.3     11,961.9    14,427.1     50,482.6
Total PROGRAM COSTS                                              88,594.4    141,803.5    151,894.1    168,242.7    166,634.1    717,168.8
Total Investment Costs                                         40,475.1    86,590.6    88,328.9     95,723.2    84,514.9    395,632.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                          48,119.3    55,212.9    63,565.2     72,519.5    82,119.1    321,536.0
on
0



Annex 4
Page I of 14
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Economic and Financial Analysis
Links of ESSP to Country Assistance Strategy and HIPC Initiative
The HIPC Initiative approved 31 March 1998 and the latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) agree that
human development and education are central for further sustained economic growth and social
development in Mozambique- Assistance delivered under the HIPC Initiative includes general budgetary
relief as well as IDA's interim relief through grant financing1 of the Education Sector Strategic Plan,
1999-2003 (ESSP). This assistance will support not only the expansion of education infrastructurc but
also reinforce the sustainability of associated recurrent cost financing. Fiscal sustainabilitv and increased
internal funding are essential in order to meet the benchmarks set in the HIPC and CAS documents. Under
these benchmarks, by 2000 the primary gross admission rate will reach 80%/86%, intcrnal efficiency will
improve through a reduction of repetition rates from 33% to 27/o-29%, and drop-out rates will decline
from 8% to 5/o-6%. Reaching these benchmarks is critical if economic growth is to be sustained, enough
graduates are to enter the labor market, and the financial viability of the ESSP program is to improve.
Sector Work Supporting ESSP
The draft Education Sector Expenditure Review recommends that (i) expansion of access be targeted at
provincial and district levels to address inequities in access for rural populations and particularly girls, (ii)
internal efficiency be improved because it is one of the most critical factors determining the success of a
short to medium-term program for human resource development. (iii) social awareness of education and
commnunity involvement be strengthened, (iv) local contractors, artisans and local materials be used more in
school construction, and (v) learning achievements be improved by adapting the curriculum to the local
environment, improving management capacity at the school and central levels, and upgrading teachers'
qualifications through pre- and in-service training programs. A full cost and financing study following up
on, and updating the results of the draft Public Expenditure Review (PER) and the results of the recent
Household Survey will be prepared in 1999.
Also addressing these issues are a number of studies prepared for the Education Scctor Stratcgic Program
1998-2003 including: (i) Mainstreaming Gender; (ii) the Teacher Education Reform Project proposal:
Processes, Content and Structure of the 10+1 14 1 Model; (iii) National Policy on Textbook and Learning
Materials; and (iv) the Financial Plan. In addition, the World Bank/EDI supported the preparation of the
report "Benefits of Learning." The report analyzed the linkagc between cducation inputs and outputs and
found a significant correlation between learning outcomes and the availability of textbooks, good school
management, qualified teachers, frequent inspections and social awarcness (by parents and communities).
A working document on institutional assessment, "A Review of Management and Administration within
Ministry of Education," was prepared in 1997. Finally, a paper by Mozambican researchers titled "Human
Capital and Social Welfare in Mozambique" (Oct. 1998) which analyzed the result of the 1996-97
Household Survey, was consulted.
IA subsequent decision has been for the Bank to contribute to ESSP financing by means of an IDA Credit.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 14
Economic and Financial Analysis
The analysis conducted for the ESSP consists of (i) rationale for public intervention, (ii) cost-benefit
analysis, including sensitivity analysis, analysis of internal efficiency, and benefit incidence analysis, (iii)
fiscal analysis, (iv) analysis of cost-effectiveness, including alternatives.
Rationale for Public Intervention
There are both efficiency and equity grounds for additional public intervention in primary and secondary
education in Mozambique.
Massive empirical research in countries covering the entire spectrum of social and economic conditions
shows that returns on education investment are strongly positive, and typically rcturns for basic education
are higher than for upper middle and higher education. Mozambique is no exception to this rule as shown
in the next section on cost-benefit analysis.
The theoretical foundation for these empirical findings is that basic education (complete primary in low
income countries, lower secondary in middle income countries) is a principal pre-condition for sustained
economic growth. Basic education increases labor productivity in existing jobs, it enables the labor force
to move more easily to new jobs associated with higher levels of economic development, it is the
prerequisite (for a segment of the population) for advancement to middle level and higher level professions.
it induces reductions in undesirably high fertility rates- it helps improve the health status of the population.
it builds up a strong national identity via the spread of a common language and common cultural values,
and it increases social cohesion by demonstrating to disadvantaged population strata that they also belong
in the social mainstream.
With regard to equity questions, the recent Household Survey revealed that: (a) only 17.4% of all
Mozambicans 18-65 years old have completed five years of education (the completion rate for girls is
10.4% and for the poor 13.9%); (b) the highest attainment for children 7-1 1 years old is only 1.17 years of
education, (c) the main reasons for not attending primary schools in rural areas are the cost of education,
children's work (opportunity costs) and absence of a school in the village, and (d) only 49.2% of
Mozambicans 7-11 years old are enrolled in school, with only 39% of girls and 41.7% of the poorest
enrolled in the rural areas. These numbers demonstrate the urgency of improving both attainment and
achievements and increasing access to quality cducation for girls and the poorest, particularly in
underserved rural areas.
Private provision of primary education has increased by more than 500% sincc 1991, from about 7.000
students enrolled into private primary schools to about 40,000 students. Also, the number of schools not
receiving public funding as well as schools run by NGOs andlor religious organizations are increasing.
However, in absolute terms private education only covers about 2% of total enrollments in lowcr primary
education. Furthermore, all private schools are concentrated in urban areas, mainly Maputo, whereas the
need for expansion of primary education is mainly in rural arcas. Few parents can afford the fees charged
by private schools, and private lending for education is not commonplace. This situation suggests that
Government intervention and financing are needed.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 14
Cost-Benefit Analysis
A cost-benefit analysis has been carried out to evaluate the expected returns on the investment program.
Two computations have been applied in estimating the private and social internal rate of return (IRR): (I)
A simple rate of return calculation describing the current system in 1997, and (2) a cohort flow model for
computing the IRR of the proposed program. Finally, to underscore the proposed program's objectives
there is a brief discussion of the structure of the system and of ESSP's impact on poverty.
In both IRR calculations it is assumed that the market wage increase, as a proxy for the marginal product
of the accumulation of human capital, is nil after only two years of primarv schooling. In other words,
most children leaving the school system after two years will not be able to acquire higher paid jobs or
improve productivity. The cost to the pupil is the sum of costs for school materials and fees as it is
assumed that the opportunity cost from lost work is marginal for young children. Public sector financed
costs are used for computing the social rate of return.
Simple Rate oReturn Analysis. A simple intemal rate-of-return calculation2 is used to cstimate the
retums to primary education for grades 1, 5 and 7. The simple IRR calculation shows a negative private
and social IRR after two years of schooling of -0.8% and -4.0%, respectively (Table 1). This finding is
consistent with the reason given by the poorest rural households for not attending school (1997 Household
Survey, IAF), namely high direct costs. On the other hand, for a student completing grade 7 the private
and the social IRR are positive, rising to 18.5% and 17.3% respectively.
Table 1. Simple Rates of Return at Current Levels of Attainment (1997)
Level of       Monthly        Privatc Rcturn   Social Rcturn
Schooling      Wage/
Completed     Incomc
Illiterate     $17.4
Grade 1        $17.4         -1.5'S%         -7.8%
Grade 2        $17.4         -0.X8%          -4.0%
Grade 5        $27.8          15.6%          14.0%
Grade 7        $34.7          18.5%Yo        17.3%
Source: World Bank estimates.
Cohort Model IRR: ESSP Program without Improvement in Internal ,f.fficiency. Table 2 shows the
calculated IRR based on the proposed ESSP sccnario, bcfore improvements to the internal efficiency, and
the IRR estimates for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).
Table 2. Private & Social Rate of Return for Mozambique and Sub-Saharan Africa
Grade/Completion    Mozambique, ESSP Program    Sub-Saharan Africa (1)
Social         Privatc       Social       Private
EPI-EP2             11.5 %         25.1 %Yo      24.3 %Io      41.3 %
ESGI                7.5 %           13.9 (o      -
ESG2                25.1 %         43.5 %        18.2 %YO      26.6 %
Note: (1) G. Psacharopoulos, 1994.
2 Given the traditional age-earning profiles, onc can approximatc thcm as flat curves, thereby using a simple
formula for the calculation.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 14
The cohort flow model estimates the private and the social IRR by completion of grade 7 to be 25. 1% and
11.5% respectively  under the proposed program, before improvements to internal efficiency. This means
that by completing primary education (grade 7). a person's lifetime earnings would increase bv about
25.1%. While the welfare gain to societv of the ESSP program for primar\ education w-ould be an
estimated 11.5%. These results do not take into account the economic gains resulting from improvements
in productivity and other externalities (child and maternal mortality rates and fertility rates) As can be
seen, the SSA average is about twice as high.
Improving Internal EIfficiency. As argued in the stmpic IRR calculation, the IRR to any investment in
Mozambique's education sector that does not improvc currcnt coMpletion rates is negative at the lowcr
grades. The reason for this is that the high repcrttion and drop out rates lead to a very high ratio of
enrollment to number of graduates. causing all costs. pUbbhc and private, to be very high oin a per graduatc
basis. Because repetition rates are high, students that do graduate takc vcry long to do it. This delay
postpones the time when their incomes rise, and it im-crcascs opportunity costs
It is important to note that the program will not only increase the numbcr ol students entering the sy stem
but its objective is also to improve intemal effic-cncy by 5)%. primaril through improvements to the
quality of education and elimination of incomplete schools As a consequence, thousands more w ill rcmain
in the system until completion. This improvement implies both an increase in prospective lifetime wages
for these students who would otherwise repeat or drop-out, as w-ell as a reduction in costs per graduate
The increase in the number of graduates that would rcsult from a reduction in repetition and drop-out rates
Is illustrated in Table 3. Even with a small 10% reduction in repetition and drop-out rates, the increase in
the number of graduates would bc substantial.
Table 3. Increase in the Number of Graduates as a Resul: of a Reduction in Repetition and
Drop-out Rates
School      Percentage Increase ir Number of Graduates from
Level       Reduction in Repetition and Drop-out Rates
10.0 % reduction         50) % reduction
EPI                   25 7                     87 4
EP2                   23.3                    185.5
ESGI                  27 9                     1)00.2
ESG2                  14 4   ___               28 4
It is not surprising, therefore, that if the program succecds in inproving internal efficiency, its IRR would
be much higher, as shown in Table 4. As a result of a reduction of repetition and drop-out rates by half,
the social and the private IRR would more than double
3The difference in the lower social rate of return is cMt.iamcd b-y ihc cohort flows model's inclusion of capital
expenditures and depreciation of capital stock
On average, students that do complete EPI, EP2, ESGlI and E.SG2 take 5.6, 2 4, 3.5 and 2.3 years. respectively,
to graduate. But as shown later only a marginal number sf pupils complete school.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 14
Table 4. Internal Rates of Return after Reductions
in Repetition and Drop-out Rates
ESSP Program
Reduction                       Social IRR                 Private IRR
I (. ()%(                       15 6                       32 0 "/o
50 00/                          2s S.9                     5 6.4 %0
In summary. lou internal elficienciv res ltSin enOrmoUS WVVx I/ rSx0u1rceX. A sound investment in
primary education should focus on improv ing the efficicnic\ of thc s\ stem and the attainment of students.
This undcrscorcs the critical imiportancc of thc proposed programil and IDA finanicinig of these areas
Analysis of Low Attainment and Internal Efficiency
The sevcrc problim of lo\x attainimicint and high intcrilal incfficicnc\ can bc illustrated by looking at
cnrollmcnt by Icvels In I 997  As can bc sceei In Figure 1 thic educationi s\ stem in Mozambique is currently
charactcrizcd b\ an "L-structure"; i.e., a \cr\ ilgh intakc and cirollmcnt into EPI (cspcciall\ gradc I and
2). combincd \xith a vcr\ limitcd numllbcr of studeints actually completing fifth gradc and continuing thcir
studics
Fi ure 1:       Enrollment Distribution bv Level of Education - 1997
I I'crtiar-,
1.5 S2 (g I 1-12)   -
I S(iI (,zr Y-I()) LI _11
1 j)
1 12 (sr(.0-7) UL
1.1'1 (Sl 1-5) ,,,,,g,,3  4    x---ES-iS-ERE E--E-E-i---Ei E E E    t = -~~~~~~~~~~~---------
()           5()()()()()    1.()()()       1.500(000       2,000,000
E n r o I I i c n t
kSource: MOE Statistics 1997
The complction ratc (% of students cnrolled that graduate) at EP I has averaged between 16% and 20%. In
other words only every fifth student or less completes EP 1. Less than 6% complete full primary education
(EP2). The situation is even more serious with regard to the number of students completing lower
secondary education (ESG I). Only about 0.5 % of all students beginning school complete the 10th grade.
In other words; only one out of every 200 students completes lower secondary education. As mentioned
already low promotion rates, high drop-out rates and high number of repeaters combined with low,



Annex 4
Page 6 of 14
although improving, quality of instructional inputs and high opportunity costs contribute to this. For about
40% of the rural population high opportunity costs and direct costs were given as the main reason for not
attending school in the recent Household Survey.
The low levels of promotion and attainment can, in addition to high costs and inadequate quality, also be
explained by (i) parents/households uncertainty about the benefits of learning, and (ii) incomplete schools
(schools not offering a full five or seven grades cycle) or absence of a school.
On the issue of parents uncertainty regarding the benefits of education, this is closely linked to the quality
of the education given and the costs to be borne by the parents. At the moment it appears that at least for
the poorest parents, the costs outweigh the benefits. This is another reason the proposed program will
focus on strengthening the qualitv of education and parents' participation in their children's education
On the issue of incomplete schools, this is a widespread phenomenon affecting about 30% of all children
enrolled in EP 1 and more than 50% in some provinces as can be seen in Table 5 below.
Table 5. Pupils in Complete Schools EPN, 1996
Province        Pupils in   % Pupils
Complete  in Complete
Schools     Schools
Cabo Delgado            67.889     65.5
Gaza                   122,257     75.1
Inhambane              119,154     83.9
Manica                  68,960     84.2
Maputo Province        108,392     91.7
Nampula                120.285     52.9
Niassa                  40,570     64.2
Sofala                  81,009     86.0
Tete                    70,675     60.5
Zambezia               171.070     53.7
Cidade de Maputo       144,748     99.9
Total                 1,115,009    70.8
North                  228,744     58.0
Central                391,714     64.0
South                  494,551     87.1
Source MINED Educational Indicators, Sept. 1997.
In 1996 about 30% of all schools were incomplete, thus not able to offer a full primary cycle. This
affected about 420,000 pupils enrolled in primary education. In the northern provinces almost half of the
children enrolled could not complete the fifth grade for the same reason. The main reasons for the existence
of incomplete schools are the lack of physical space and classrooms and the very high enrollment rates into
the first and second grades. This suggests the need to target existing schools by building additional
classrooms as proposed under the program.
The absence of nearby schools is another reason for low completion rates in Mozambique, particularly in
the rural areas. In the Household Survey 32.3% of the rural children who did not have a school in their
village were not attending school because of the distance to the nearest school. This supports the
The 1997 Benefits of Learning Study, correlating education inputs to learning achievement clearly identified
"parents and the community awareness of the importance of education" as a contributing effect to learning
outcomes.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 14
program's focus on concentrating more than 80% of the school construction in remote or underserved areas
without access to education.
Benefit Incidence Analysis - Impact on Poverty
The IRR analysis has provided us with some indication of the priorities that should be considered by the
Government in improving intemal efficiency, namely reducing repetition and drop-out rates. However, the
analysis did not explain why there has not been a higher demand for private education, if returns are as
high as indicated.
First, it appears that there is indeed a huge demand for primary education as witnessed by the fact that
practically all children-bo's and girls, in rural and in urban areas where schools are available-have
returned to school since the countrv returned to normal conditions following the 1992 peace agreement.
But because most families live on subsistence incomcs, thev ma' find it verv difficult to set aside the
means-particularly monetary-to pay for such services, particularly if only offered by a private provider
where the costs are likely to be higher. And if credit markets work imperfectly, privatization and self-
financing will be difficult to achieve.
From another point of view, although the IRR analysis calls for further Government intervention in primary
education, as proposed under the ESSP program. it does not explain whether the proposed expansion would
actually reduce poverty and reach the poor. Too often, public spending in education is geared to a
quantitative expansion. Without an improvement in the quality of education and attainment, the need and
demand for education services may very rapidly decline and therefore have a limited effect on reducing
6
poverty. This has been the case in a number of SSA countries.  An educational policy should ensure that
the demand for education is increased or, at a minimum, sustained by improving the quality of the services
and by reducing the effects on the poor and ultra-poor of any new policies. MINED has already taken one
such action, under the proposed program MINED will distribute free textbooks for grades I to 7. The
measurcment for an improved "quality package" is an increase in per student spending (unit costs).
Another measurement is expanded access for the poorest. All are integral parts of the proposed program.
Under the program, it is estimated that the unit costs for EP I students will increase by about 40%. The
program is focused on expanding primarv education to the most underserved and impoverished areas, thus
benefiting the lower income groups. Furthermore, by introducing complete schools (grades 1 to 7) more
children, particularly in the rural areas, will benefit from improved access to grades 6 and 7. A question
that has not been solved is whether the poorest and girls will actually use the services provided-and thus,
whether the benefits will outweigh the costs. This can only be done by ensuring that policies such as the
Caixa Escolar will assist the poorest. Under the ESSP program, studies will analyze the reasons why
underserved groups drop out or do not attend school, so that more appropriate policies can be designed.
Figure 2, based on the calculated unit costs for 19957 and the population, shows school enrollment and
income distribution by quintiles. The diagonal line represents an equal distribution of the public subsidy
6 In a recent study "School Enrollment Decline in sub-Saharan Africa - Beyond the Supply Constraint", (Bredie
and Beeharry, foreword by B. Frederiksen. WB, Aug. 1998) the correlation between benefits of education
(quality) and the affordability for the poorest is analyzed.
7 Data for 1996 are unavailable. Unit cost is total public spending (salaries, etc., following the budget line items)
excluding running costs of the central ministry, decentralized administrative budgets and capital investment
(they are not considered as transferable resources from which the children will benefit), divided by the
number of children enrolled in public schools.



Annex 4
Page 8 of 14
per capita enrollment. In other words, each child gets the same benefits in monetary terrns, independent of
his or her income group. The lines farther away, and below, the diagonal indicate policies that benefit the
higher-income groups; the lines closest to the diagonal, or above, indicate policies that benefit the poor the
most. Figure 2 clearly reveals a common pattern. Whereas the lower primary enrollment (EP 1) is the
most pro-poor, but still below full equity, current university spending mainly benefits higher-income
groups. It is not surprising that the graph depicts such a skewed curve. Only about 5,000 students were
enrolled in university in 1994 (equivalent to a gross enrollment rate of less than 1%). And more than 90%
of the students enrolled in university came from the highest income group. Secondary education is equally
pro-rich, although not to the same extent as university education. The ESSP program will move up the
EP I and EP2 curves toward the diagonal as access is expanded and EP I unit costs rise. Through targeted
interventions, mainly scholarship programs for girls, there should be a shift in the curves for secondary
education as well.
Figure 2: Benefit Incidence Analysis
Lrmmr airve
g h; e aW dy   Bmffit-Incidut: Bubc &MEdy Pverty Ckie"ntaa  
0.29'                       t v 
0.8        .1 
0.5.
O-                                                                guP
1   -P        2              3              4        Ridst- 5



Annex 4
Page 9 of 14
Fiscal Impact and Sustainability
The total programn for the five-year period 1999-2003 is costed at US$717 million. This amount covers
capital as well as recurrent expenditure for primary education (grades 1-7), secondary education (grades 8-
12) and technical education, but excludes expenditures on higher education and the effects of planned
public sector salary decompression on education costs. An additional expenditure of US$ 101 million and
US$ 100 million (for the period 1999-2003) is estimated for salary decompression and for higher education
respectively. Thus, the total projected cost (capital and recurrent) for the provision of education services at
all levels could amount to about US$918 million in 1999-2003, or US$818 million without higher
education.
The fiscal viability of education sector expansion plans can be checked by comparing the above figures to
macroeconomic projections worked out by Bank and IMF staff in collaboration with Mozambican
authoritics. The Government will have to allocate up to 16% of projected public expenditures (US$918
million over total expenditurcs of US$5,767 million) to meet the public sector financed costs of this
program (including capital investments and higher education) over the 1999-2003 period. When higher
education is not included in the calculation. this perccntage is reduced to 14%, still a significant increase
ovcr the 9% allocated in 1998. The Ministcr of Finance, in his letter of sector policy to the Bank, commits
the Government to allocate up to 21 % of public expenditures to the education sector by the year 2003. The
fiscal viability of the proposed program of education sector expansion is assured both in terms of the
country's economic prospects and the Govemment's commitment to the sector's development. Also,
education (including univcrsities) would absorb an average of 4.4% of GDP per annum in the period 1999-
2003, which is modest in view of the high percentage of school-age children and the need to rebuild
infrastructure badly damaged during the war.
Capital expenditures (excluding higher education) of the ESSP program would make up 14% of all public
capital expenditures, and recurrcnt expcnditures (including salary decompression, but excluding higher
education) will make up 17.5% of all public recurrcnt expenditures over the 1999-2003 period. At the end
of the period education, excluding higher education, will absorb 18.7% of total recurrent expenditures as
shown in Table 6 below. As a share in total salaries education salaries will remain constant at 41-42%.
Table 6: Education Fiscal Framework, including
Salary Decompression, excluding Higher Education (in percent)
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003*
Education expenditures as   16.1%    18.9%    17.5%    16.4%    15.9%    15.7%
a share of total domestic
revenue
Education recurrent       15.0%    17.2%    16.7%    17.2%    17.8%    18.7%
expenditures as a share in
total recurrent
expenditures *)
Education salaries as a   40.0%    44.0%    41.4%    41.1%    41.7%    42.7%
share in total salaries
Education share in GDP     3%       4%       4%      4%       4%       4%
Source: World Bank Fiscal Management Review, 1998. World Bank estimates
Note *): If the expenditures on higher education are included the share in total recurrent
expenditures will rise to 18.0% and 18.4% in 1998 and 1999 respectively.



Annex 4
Page 10 of 14
Medium Term Expenditure Framework These estimates are in broad agreement with the provisional
Medium Terrn Expenditure Framework developed by MPF with assistance from IMF and the World Bank.
During the life of the plan, a number of donors will progressively shift the focus of finance from specific
projects to the plan's components, with parallel shift from appraising individual activities to financing
shares of the sector strategy and move towards a sector wide approach (SWAP) and budgetary support.
During the joint assessment May 1998, most donors agreed to move towards a SWAP.
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
Education Expenditures - Country Comparisons. During the 1994-1996 period, Mozambique devoted
about 2.9% of its GDP to education beforc grants aid to education. Only a few other countries in Sub-
Saharan Africa had a smaller proportion of GDP devoted to education the same year. Where provision of
primary education for all is estimated to require about 2% of a country's GDP, Mozambique devoted 3.1%
for the whole education sector on average, excluding foreign aid, from 1990 to 1997. It devoted less than
1% on primary education-far from the 2% rule of thumb. In 1992, Zimbabwe, South Africa, and
Swaziland allocated 9.1 %, 7.0 % and 6.0 % of their GDP to education, respectively. However, compared
to other low enrollment countries8 including Angola, Burkina Faso, Chad, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Rwanda and Senegal, Mozambique has matched their average of
about 3.0% in GDP (about 3.1% in GDP). At the same time, overall, Sub-Saharan Africa devoted 3.9% of
GDP to education. However, there are two concerns in relation to Mozambique: (i) its share in GDP may
equal other low enrollment countries, but the GDP per capita in Mozambique of US$140 is well below the
SSA averagc of US$450 or the above mentioned low enrollment countries of about US$300. Thus, in
absolutc terns Mozambique is lagging behind. And (ii) as a post-conflict country, the costs and the
investment needs in Mozambique for rebuilding infrastructure will require large investments in addition to
rcquired expenditures for expanding access.
D)istribution by Sub-sector levels. Figures 3 (a) and 3 (b) below illustrate the shift of internal recurrent
expenditures towards primary education in Mozambique (grade I to 7) from 1994 to 1997.
As Figure 3 shows, the share of primary education has increased from 38.5% to about 45.6% in 1997 with
a corrcsponding reduction in the share of Eduardo Mondlane University (UEM), technical vocational
training, teacher training and administrative costs. While the reduction in administrative costs, which
include provisions for districts and provincial offices is an encouraging trend, administrative costs continue
to take a substantial share (about 17%) of the overall budget. The consequence of this shift has been that
the unit cost for a primary student has recovered to the 1990 level of about US$13 per pupil while all other
sub-sectors unit costs have been declining.
s "Accelerating Primary Educstion in Low Enrollment Countries; Action Plan for Support under UNSIA"; WB
1998.



Annex 4
Page 11 of 14
Figure 3 (a). Public Expenditures by Sub-sectors 1994 (in percent)
Administration   Literacy
21%          1%
Other
Technical                4f
6%
3% ~~~~~~~9
Trainin
LIEM
13%
Secondary
11%
Figure 3 (b). Public Expenditures by Sub-sectors 1997 (in percent)
Administration  Literacy
UP/     1%          1%
2%~~~~~1
Technical    =,_  i ^           Other
5%      _ z _                  5%
Teacher
Training
3%
UEM                    ~~~~~46%
1 2%                   -
Secondary
10%
Of the total expenditures for primary. sccondary and technical education, 74% goes to salaries and 26% to
good and services. EP I salaries make up almost 60% of the total salary envelope. EP2 salaries account
for 1 1% of total salary envelope. The shares to ESG I and ESG2 have increased from 5. 1% and 1.6%,
respectively, in 1990 to 8% and 4% in 1997, respectively. Central administration (including the provinces)
has been reduced from 20% in 1990 to 12% in 1996. Tertiarv education makes up about 15% of the total
public recurrent expenditures on education. However. historically the higher education sector has received
significant external contributions. making up more than 50% of their expenditures.
By' year 2001, without an introduction of new programs for technical and vocational training and higher
education, administration will cover 12%, primary education 49%, secondary education 14%, teacher
training will double to 6%, technical and vocational training 4%, tertiary education 12% and others 3%
under the new program.



Annex 4
Page 12 of 14
Cost-Effectiveness of ESSP
In order to provide an estimate of the effectiveness of the proposed program the following two tables 7(a)
and 7(b) (at the end of the annex) compare projections of students and graduates by level of education
when intemal efficiencv remains the same as in the recent past (Scenario 1). and when it is increased bv
100% (i.e. when repetition and drop-out rates are reduced by 50% as planned under the proposed
program-ESSP Scenario).
The two tables are based on preliminary data from the 1997 population census. which show that the actual
numbers for school-age groups are about 20% lower than those based on projcctions from the 1980
population census.
Tables 7(a) and 7kb) have been combined in Table 8 with regard to number of graduates bv level. In
addition. Table 8 shows numbers of graduatcs for the ycars 1996-1998, which are of course the same for
ESSP and Scenario I The last column shows "net" numbers of graduates for each level for 1996-2003,
i.*  those who rcmain in that level after deducting the graduates at the next higher level (the number of
i-ul!'cdeCs for lower and upper secondary arc added together) The last two lines show total expenditures
1996-2003 for ESSP and Scenario I Notc that expenditurcs for ESSP for 1999-2003 are higher than
th.;sc presented in the PAD, and they reflect earlier cost estimates. They are kept herc because they are
ccrisidered to be comparable to corresponding earls estimates of Scenario I (there are no updated cost
cstimates of Scenario 1).
T able 8 has been used to estimate the cost-effectiveness of ESSP by using the following simplifications:
First, because therc are no cost profiles of the system's graduates, i.e., there are no estimates of the stream
of the annual expenditures during a person's studies which are necessary for that person to graduate,
required expenditures have bccn approximated by those actually realized during the period that the
graduates arc produced. simplN cxtending the period as long as available data allow (in this case, 1996-
2003) in order to eliminate part of the bias. Second, because there is no cost breakdown by level of
education an approximation has been used to apply as weights the monthly costs of teachers for each level
(US$37 for EP1. US$ 78 for EP2, and US$ 159 for lower and upper secondary levels combined as there
are no detailed salarv estimates for these two levels).
Applying thcsc strong simplifying assumptions to the figures contained in Table 8, it can be shown that the
cost of ESSP would be US$ 1 .19 billion, if the relative costs of producing graduates at the various levels
under Scenario I remained the same. As the actually calculated cost of ESSP is US$998 million, the cost
savings of ESSP (mainly from increasing internal efficiency) are 19.2%. This is probably an underestimate
of the true savings (assuming of coursc that the planned improvements in internal efficiency are realized)
for two reasons: One, as mentioned earlier the latest cost estimates for ESSP are significantly less than the
figure in Table 8. And two, truncating the cost profiles excludes from the calculation the higher number of
future graduates associated with current levels of spending.



Annex 4
Page 13 of 14
Table 7 (a). Scenario 1 - 1997 Population Data - status quo*
1999             2000               2001               2002              2003
EPI
Pupils -  Total              1,832,823         1,941,989        2.046,839           2,156,460         2,274,138
Graduates          98,387             110,753          116,456             119,207           123,969
Teachers - Total             30,547            32,366           34,114              35,941             37,902
New                2,320             2,430            2,395                2,509             2,680
EP2
Gross admission              83.0%             84 0%            85 0%               86.0%              87.0%
Gross enrollment             211%              22 80<o          25.0%               26.9%              28.0%
Pupils -  Total              166,944           184,563          207.368             227,969            243,312
Graduates          24.067            26,167            29,002              32,652            35,768
Teachers  Total              3,210             3,549            3,988               4,384              4,679
New                308               403               510                 476               383
ESGI
Giross admnission            75.0%             75,0%            75.0%               75.0%              75.0%
Pupils--  Total              53,401            57,499           61,926              67,265            74,109
(iraduates         4,636             5.11S             5,539               5,938             6,386
Tceachers - 'I'otal          2,294             2,368            2,449               2,559             2,713
New                135                120              128                 159               205
ESC;2
Ciross admission             75.0%             75.0%            75.0%               75.0%/o            75.00/%
Pupils   1'otal             6,470              7.264            S,104               8,895             9,629
Graduates           1,327             1.478            1,664               1,850             2,021
'Feachers 'I'otal            234               262              287                 287               301
New                3                 33                30                  6                 20
* No improvement in internal efficiencx
Table 7 (b). ESSP Scenario  -1997 Population Data
and a 50% Reduction in Repetition & Drop-out Rates
1999             2000               2001               2002              2003
E.P 
Pupils -  'I'otal                1,832,823         1,956,000       2,086,491            2,222,746         2,365,188
Graduates              108,307            134,513         161,365              190,843           231,592
'T'eachers T 1otal              30,547             32,600           34,775              37,046            39,420
Ncw                    2,320             2,664            2,827                2,966             3,115
IP2
1'ransition                     87.0%             90.0%            92.0%                93.0%             95.0%
Gross enrollment                21.3%              24.4%           29.3%                35.3%             41.4%
Pupils   Total                   168,714           197,626         243,191              299,102           359,723
Crraduates              28,353            37,068           51,070              72,636             100,389
Teachers - Total                3,245              3,801            4,677               5,752             6,918
New                    343               621              952                  1,169             1,281
ESG I
Transition                      75.0%              75.0%           75.0%                75.0%             75.0%
Pupils -  'I'otal               53,401            61,204           73,593               94,291            127,630
Graduates               4,636             6,119            7,540               9,738              13,421
Teachers  Total                  1,907             1,974           2,103                2,481             3,191
New                    -79               28               168                  420               760
ESG2
Transition                      75.0%              75.0%           75.0%                75.0%             75.0%
Pupils -  Total                 6,470              7,264           8,854                11,014            13,955
Graduates              1,327             1,478            1,664                2,083             2,586
Teachers - Total                234                262              314                 355               436
New                    3                 33               57                   47                88



Table 8: Number of Graduates and Expenditures Under Scenario 1 and ESSP, 1996-2003
________  1996     1997       1998       1999       2000      2001       2002       2003       1996 - 2003
.______               _ ______   _______    _______    _______      Total    Net
EPI Gradua Ites                                                                                                                          __
Scen 1               _               75139      80893      88478     98387    110753    116456    119207    123969    813282    601740
ESSP                                 75139      80893      88478    108307    134513    161365    190843    231592   1071130    717728
EP2 Graduates
Scen 1               _                 _ _0    _ 19888  21418  22580  24067     26167      29002   =32652        35768    211542    161005
ESSP                                 19888      21418      22580      28353     37068      51070      72636    100589    353402    288230
Lower Secondary
Scen 1                .      _       3136       3463       4106      4636       5118       5539       5938       6386      38322      50537
ESSP                                  3136       3463       4106       4636       6119      7540        9738      13421     52159      65172
_   I_   _  __          __        I                     _   _        ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~__---_--------
Upper Secondar-y      _      _I_I_ _                                                             I_             _      1     .__J
Scen I    ,           __              1123       1461       1291       1327       1478       1664       1850      2021       12215
ESSP      |            _        }     1123       1461       1291'      1327       1478       1664       2083       2587      13013  _
Expenditures                                         l                     l                                l                                l
62510      91513    100138    112375    121867    128662    120517    121738    859320l
ESSP  |  t    62510      91510      99504    112028    131915    153596    163220    184662    998945                  l
0
0pX



Annex 5
Page I of 7
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Financial Management
The salient features of the financial management system for the MINED Directorate of Administration
and Finance (DAF), as outlined in a Discussion Paper that was recently approved by MINED, are as
follows:
A    GENERAL
1. Financial Resources for ESSP
1.1    The principal financial resources for ESSP will consist of (a) The Government's budget for
education, (b) new funds from coopcrating partners, including IDA, to be expended through the new
ESSP Basket (please refer to 2 below), and (c) funds from any ongoing and any new "parallel" (non-
Basket) support from cooperating partners.
1.2    Developing a financial management system to fully capture the funds referred to in 1.1 above
will involve 2 phases as follows:
Phase I (Short to Medium 7erm): During this phase, (a) above will continue to be administered by
DAF and the provincial DPEs in accordance with existing Government procedures; (b) will be
administered by DAF in accordance with the systems and procedures outlined in this Appendix; funds
under (c) will also be captured in accordance with the systems and procedures outlined in this
Appendix.
Phase 2 (Medium to Long term): During this phase, following extensive consultation between all
Government ministries (MINED, MPF etc.) and, if deemed appropriate, a comprehensive study by an
external firm of management consultants, a fully integrated financial management system for
Government will be established.
2. ESSP Basket Funding
2.1    The principle of basket funding is that cooperating partners will contribute to a "common
basket (i.e. the ESSP Basket) instead of supporting their own individual projects. ESSP Basket
financial statements will be produced showing the expenditures financed from the ESSP Basket as
well as the sources of funds spent, i.e. Financial Statements will be produced on both disaggregated
(i.e. analyzed by cooperating partners) and consolidated bases.
3. MINED Directorate of Administration and Finance (DAF)
3.1    DAF's new financial management system (FMS) will support management in their
deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in
the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes. The FMS should be capable of
producing relevant, understandable, timely and reliable financial information that should enable
management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Ministry's overall progress towards the
achievement of its objectives.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 7
3.2    The current structure of DAF was not designed to meet the objectives and programs as
described in the Education Sector Strategic Plan. Therefore, for DAF to fully deliver on its new and
expanded mandate, its financial management system will be strengthened and enhanced in line with the
key features presented in B below.
4. Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)
4. 1    The successful implementation of DAF's new FMS should facilitate the future introduction of
PMR-based disbursements. A financial management review of the program will be undertaken by a
World Bank financial management Specialist within 12 months of credit effectiveness to assess
progress. Meanwhile, for at least 12 months after credit effectiveness, existing disbursement
procedures will be followed.
B      KEY FEATURES
1. Financial Management Committee (FMC)
1. 1    A representative FMC (including MPF) wvill be appointed to review the Program's
Management Report every quarter. The report will comprise:
Financial statements, as discussed in paragraph i1.2 below. Members of the FMC will review and
approve quarterly and annual financial statements. they will also examine material variances between
budget/actual figurcs - seeking remedial action, as appropriate, within an agreed timeframe.
Program progress, i.e. Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR
will need to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying narrative
interpreting the program s progress with agreed financial performance indicators and how costs to
date relate to those planned at appraisal, and its likely effect on the program at its completion.
2. Staffing
2.1    A Financial Controller/Deputy Financial Controller will be appointed to direct and guide the
financial management operations of ESSP.
2.2    Relevantly qualified/experienced accounting, administrative/procurement and support staff
will be appointed. Substantial investment in staff training will be required in: financial, management
and government accounting; information systems and computer applications; procedures relating to
utilization of funds, e.g. Special Accounts, statement of expenditure (SOEs), special commitments,
procurement etc. On the job coaching will be provided.
2.3    Appropriate logistical arrangements will be made for an enlarged DAF, e.g. fumiture and
equipment/computers, accommodation, telephones, fax, email, transport etc.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 7
3. Financial Procedures Manual/Internal Audit
3.1   Internal control procedures will be documented in a Financial Procedures Manual. The
distribution of IDA funds at the provincial/district level will be modeled on the Caixa Escolar (school
fund) system, as outlined in the Plano Operativo da Caixa Escolar.
The activities of the program will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Unit at
MPF - Inspeccao Geral de Financas (IGF).
4. Information Technology
4.1    Information technology requirements for ESSP (hardware, software and training) will be
determined at the earliest opportunity. Following consultation with the external auditors, the
accounting system will be computerized as soon as is practically feasible using an integrated accounts
package.
4.2    Software selection will be influenced by: availability and user friendliness/language, technical
support and back-up, training facilities for program staff, costs, computer controls, technology
compatibility with the systems being used by MPF.
4.3    The Financial Controller/Deputy Financial Controller will provide support in the use of the
accounting software. Some extemal consultancy support may be required.
5. Planning and Budgeting
5.1    Counterpart funding will be approved in line with Government's budgetary process.
5.2    FMC will be responsible for budget preparation for utilization of ESSP Basket funds with, as
appropriate, the concurrence of cooperating partners. The Financial Controller, in consultation with
FMC, will be responsible for preparing the program's quarterly/annual cash flow forecast.
5.3    The budget will ultimately be approved by MPF in consultation with MINED.
6. Government Accounting - Cash Versus Accruals
6.1    The FMC will determine the basis of accounting that will be adopted.
7. Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
7.1    To facilitate control, it is advisable that each contract should receive funds from only one
external cooperating partner.
7.2    The Financial/Deputy Financial Controller and senior staff members will be conversant with
procurement procedures, as internal control issues and the incurring of liabilities are matters of
particular concern to the financial management function.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 7
8. Banking Activities
ESSP Basket
8.1    For the ESSP Basket, each cooperating partner will advance funds to a dedicated banking
account. Funds from the various cooperating partners would not be mingled prior to their utilization.
ESSP Basket financial statements will be produced showing the expenditures (according to the agreed
Chart of Accounts) financed from the ESSP Basket as wtell as the sources of funds spent, e.g. IDA,
Bilateral A, Bilateral B, etc.
Bank Accounts
8.2    The Government will keep the funds from IDA and each other donor in separate accounts but
will move toward common procurement, financial management and auditing procedures acceptable to
all partners. Financial statements will show ESSP basket expenditures as well as the source of the
funds. Donor agencies support the gradual transfer of funds to MINED through budget support as its
financial management capacities improve. For IDA and counterpart funding, DAF will maintain
accounting records with respect to the following three bank accounts: (a) a current account in meticais
into which the Government will deposit its counterpart funding; (b) a dollar-based Special Account
(SA); and (c) an IDA Loan/Credit Account. including meticais, dollar and SDR movements. In line
with good accounting practice, the accounting records for cach bank account will be reconciled
monthly by DAF with the bank statements for each of the 3 accounts upon their receipt. Technical
assistance (including a financial controller and a deputy controller) will support DAF. The program
will strengthen DAF to provide general financial management of the central Ministry directorates and
agencies, the provincial and district directorates. and schools.
8.3    The flow of IDA funds related to textbooks and school materials, grants to schools and
community school construction will be modeled on the existing Caixa Escolar (school fund) system,
which the Government established in 1989 to support education at the community level. This system
is now being used primarily for the procurement and distribution of learning materials. Under the
Caixa Escolar system, annual budgets and distribution plans are prepared at the district level in
collaboration with schools and communities, and approved by MINED and the Ministry of Planning
and Finance. Separate bank accounts (administered by a provincial treasurer) are established for each
province, and sub-accounts are established for districts with local capacity. Allocated funds are
distributed through the provincial directorates of planning and finance (DPPFs) to the DPEs (Caixa
Escolar accounts) for disbursement at the school level. The Caixa Escolar is audited annually.
Disbursement of IDA Funds
8.4    Disbursement from IDA will be made on the basis of incurred eligible expenditures. IDA will
make advance disbursement from the proceeds of the Credit by depositing into a Borrower-operated
Special Account to expedite program implementation. The advance to a Special Account is to be used
by the Borrower to finance IDA's share of program expenditures under the Credit. Another
acceptable method of withdrawing funds from the Credit is the direct payment method, involving
direct payments from the Credit to a third party for works, goods, and services upon the Borrower's
request. Payments may also be made to a commercial bank for expenditures against IDA special
commitments covering a commercial bank's Letter of Credit. IDA's Disbursement Letter stipulates a
minimum application value for direct payment and special commitment procedures. The Association
may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of



Annex 5
Page 5 of 7
expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent (ii)
goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (iii) consultants' services (firms) under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (iv) consultants' services (individuals) under contracts
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and (v) operating costs and training under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
ESSP will use a simplified Special Account disbursement procedure which allows decentralized
program implementation. The Government will open a Special Account in the Bank of Mozambique.
The Special Account will be operated by designated officials of MINED. The decentralization of
program accounts would be introduced initially on a pilot basis in 3 provinces. Following agreement
between the Government (Schools, DDEs, DPEs, DAF, DP, DPPF, MPF) and cooperating partners
on the annual work program and budget, procurement would be organized through the 3 DPEs in
accordance with ESSP's procurement procedures. Each of the 3 participating DPEs would operate 2
bank accounts as follows:
(a)    A current account in meticais into which counterpart funding by the Government would be
deposited on a replenishment basis -- with an opening 2 months, float and supported by monthly
replenishment requests of prior month expenses to DPPF.
(b)    A sub-account in dollars of the Maputo Special Account with, for example, Standard Totta
Bank of Mozambique, to which dollars funding from IDA would be deposited on a replenishment
basis - with an opening 2 months, float and supported by monthly replenishments of prior month
expenses.
8.5    The operation of the sub-special account would ease the burden on GOM of having to pre-
finance activities in the provinces where most program activities would be implemented. All payments
made from the sub-SA would have full supporting documentation including, if appropriate, evidence
of goods received. Both bank accounts would be reconciled monthly, and those reconciliation's should
be reviewed and approved by DPPF and DAF as part of the replenishment process.
8.6    Upon Credit effectiveness, MINED will submit a withdrawal application for an initial deposit
to the Special Account, drawn from the IDA Credit, in the amount agreed to in the development credit
agreement. Replenishment of funds from IDA to the Special Account will be made upon evidence of
satisfactory utilization of the advance, reflected in the SOEs and/or on full documentation for
payments above the SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications should be submitted regularly -
ideally every-month but not exceeding three month intervals. If ineligible expenditures are found to
have been made from the Special Account, the Borrower will be obligated to refund the same. If the
Special Account remains inactive for more than six months, the Borrower may be requested to refund
to IDA amounts advanced to the SA.
9. Withdrawals/Disbursements
9.1    At this juncture in the relatively embryonic stage in the development of DAF's new financial
management system, DAF is not yet ready for PMR-based disbursements, as discussed in the World
Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998). Thus, for at least
12 months after credit effectiveness, existing disbursement procedures should be followed. In due
course, the successful implementation of the new financial management system should facilitate the
future introduction of PMR-based disbursements.



Annex 5
Page 6 of 7
9.2    Meanwhile, procedures relating to withdrawals/special commitments, statements of
expenditures and Special Account, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will
apply. Regarding cooperating partners, similar procedures will be established
10. Fixed Assets, Construction and Inventories
10.1   A fixed assets register will be prepared. regularly updated and checked for capital
expenditure Regarding construction/capital work in progress. controls will be established over the
awarding of contracts as well as for ensuring that payments will be made only in respect of certified
work. Contract status reports will be prepared quarterly for consideration by the FMC.
10.2   An inventories management svstem, including distribution to the provinces, will be established
and procedures i1ll be documented in the Financial Procedurcs Manual.
11. Financial Reporting (Monthlv/QuarterlN and Annually)
Monthly Cash Reporting
11. t   In compliance w\ith Govemment reporting requirements, the Financial Controller will be
responsible for preparing a Monthly Return to MPF for consolidation into the National Accounts of
Mozambique.
Quarterly/Annually
11 .2 The financial statements, following determination by the FMC, are likelv to include:
A statement of sources and uses of funds by Credit category/by activity;
A balance sheet as at the reporting date.
Notes in respect of significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management
when preparing the accounts.
Special account statement/reconciliation showing deposits and replenishments received, pavments
substantiated by withdrawal applications. interest that may be eamed on the account and the balance
at the end of the fiscal year.
SOE withdrawal schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements by the
SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount,
A cash forecast for the next 2 quarters.
11.3  Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in two World Bank publications:
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995) and The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September, 1998).



Annex 5
Page 7 of 7
12. External Audit
12.1   Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on acceptable
terms of reference. The external auditor will also be expected to prepare a separate Management
Letter giving observations and commnents, and providing recornmendations for improvements of
accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Procurement and Implementation Arrangements
Procurement arrangements refer to the IDA financed share of the Program.
Organizational Structure
Central Level: The procurement under the program will be highly decentralized with the bulk of
the construction works and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurement delegated to the
provinces. The MINED center will still have a particular relevance for the implementation of the
program since delegation to provinces is still at a preliminary stage, and most of management
decisions have been so far taken exclusively by the center. Moreover, even if decentralization of
authority will be a major factor for the success of the program, the center will maintain the
important function to manage the overall program, assisting the provinces in acquiring the
necessary skills and providing them with both technical assistance and standard bid documents.
designs and specifications. In order to improve the performance by MINED Center, the
following steps will be completed before the start of the program: (i) an experienced Executive
Secretary has already been selected. He will lead a Secretariat and a nucleus of M[NED technical
experts and an experienced management consultant, (ii) two experienced procurement staff from
GEPE have been incorporated into MINED, and (iii) at least four members of the secretariat will
be trained at an advanced procurement management seminar to be held in March, 1999 in
Maputo. The center will carry out all ICB procurement and consultants selection under the
program, will coordinate activities at provincial level, and closely assist the provinces with
technical advice, standard documentation, construction plans and specifications. The center will
also coordinate with the Bank and other participating partners (donors) either directly or through
the Resident Mission.
Provincial Level: The implementation of the program will largely be decentralized to the
Provinces due to the nature of works spread over very large areas and the small amount of the
procurement contracts. The capacity of the MINED provincial offices is, however, very limited
due to lack of previous experience in implementation. In order to achieve results, and facilitate
the gradual transfer of authority to provincial, and eventually district level, only three pilot
Provinces will start managing procurement on the first year of the program. Each of the
provinces will establish an implementation unit at the provincial MINED offices, with a
minimum of 2 experienced staff capable to manage and carry out procurement. In addition, a
massive program of capacity building will be carried out at the start of the Program with at least 2
staff from each province participating to a procurement seminar on Bank procurement
procedures to be held in Maputo, in March 1999. The provincial MINED offices, with the
assistance by the Center. will carry out procurement of small works, fumiture. educational
materials, supervise the works and assist the rural districts in the activities under the Community
School Program (CSP). The MINED offices will have the option to delegate management and
supervision of works to external consultants. The priority actions to be taken by MINED at
provincial level are described in more detail below.
Procurement of Works
Construction of Classrooms and Rehabilitation: The vast program of construction works
under the program concerns mostly construction and rehabilitation of primary schools in single
units of 2-4 classrooms with an average cost of US$15-25,000 equivalent. The individual
classrooms will be built in rural areas, mostly as an addition to existing structures often at
considerable distance from the major provincial towns. Since packaging of these small structure



Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
into larger lots is impractical, these small construction works will not attract the interest of large
contractors given their remote location. Therefore, it will be necessary to resort in most cases to
the use of small, local contractors and to the simple procurement methods under the Community
School Program. The construction of classrooms under CSP is essential to guarantee that a
sufficient number of classrooms will be built each year (see also Annex 13 for more details). The
community will receive funds for the purchase of construction material (bricks. cement. steel
slabs etc.) and will have the options to either build the classrooms for themselves or resort to
NGOs and small contractors. The value of the individual contracts is not expectcd to be higher
than $50,000 equivalent and may be procured under lump sum. fixed price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations received from three qualified contractors. Standard models of classrooms.
of a design suitable to local conditions, have been prepared by MINED center and will be
furnished to the provincial offices of MINED. Supervision and technical advice for the
construction will be furnished by technical supervisors from the MINED provincial offices whlic
will visit each of the constrmction sites on a rotational basis.
Construction of Primary Schools and School Complexes: The capacity of commlluniities and
local contractors will not be sufficient to cope with the large number of classrooms to be built
under the program, and they would have insufficient technical skills for the construction of new
school complexes (embryonic units. constituted bv an average of 4 classrooms. administration
and storage rooms, and I to 3 small houses for teachers). Contracts for these stnuctLres have an
estimate value of $50,000 to $100.000 equivalent. The contracts therefore will be widely
advertised in order to attract national contractors under National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
method of procurement. Even if nationally advertised, contracts located in the remote areas of
the northern and western provinces may not attract competition from the relatively small, Maputo
based, Mozambican constnictioni industry. The demand for construction would. however, favor
the use of local sub-contractors and stimulate the growth of a more active construction industrV.
NCB will be based mostlyv on national procurement regulations. whichi were reviewed by the
Bank and considered adequate. Standard bid documents in Portuguese language for use in NCB
contracts will be drafted by MINED before the start of the implementation and will be reviewed
by the Bank before effectiveness. The first 5 contracts of each province and any contract higlher
than US$200.000 will be subject to IDA prior review.
Construction of Secondary Schools and Technical Colleges: Packaging of works under larger
contracts may be possible for groups of schools to be built near main provincial towns. and
whenever larger structures (such as secondary and pre-university schools) will also be built in
order to attract intemational contractors. Advertising of procurement notices (GPNs and SPNs)
in Development Business will be carried out at least once a year, and intemnational contractors
will be allowed to bid for anv contract both below and under the threshold of US$500,000
established for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Bank procedures for ICB contracts and
standard bid documents will be used throughout the program and contracts subject to prior
review.
Procurement of Goods
Procurement of Nationally Available Goods: A great variety of goods and equipment will be
purchased under the program. The purchase of simple construction material such as cement bags,
bricks, construction stones. stcel roofing etc. will be carried out directly by the communities (or
via some of the other options described in Annex 13), under procedures to be specified in a
manual for community participation works. Funds for the purchase will be probably obtained at
district level through the mechanism of the existing Caixa Escolar (School Fund). Small
contracts for educational materials, such as chalk, stationery and books and for furniture and
building fixtures. such as doors and window frames, will be purchased locally either by National



Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
Shopping (NS) or NCB, depending on the amount of the contract and local conditions. NS will
be limited to a maximum amount of $20,000 equivalent for individual contract and up to an
aggregate amount of US$250,000 equivalent. The MINED provincial offices wvill package
individual contracts into larger ones on the basis of yearly schedules for each province, and will
carry out advertising at local and national level and procurement on the basis of standard bid
documents and specifications fumished by MINED central. Each individual contract estimated to
cost more than US$200.000 will be purchased by MINED center through ICB method of
procurement and the procedures specified in the Bank Procurement Guidelines. January 1995
edition. revised September. 1997.
Procurement of Goods Not Available at National Level: Each individual contract above the
threshold of US$200.000 and contracts for goods not available locally, suchl as vehicles and
computers, will be procured by MINED center through ICB and large packages at the beginninlg
of each fiscal yvear. Contracts wvill be advertised in Development Business at least once a year.
SPNs will be published in national newspapers of wide circulation. IDA procurement procedures
and SBDs will be used tlhrouglhout. All ICB contracts will be subject to prior revicw. Basic
office equipment such as desk computer. printer. fax machine and I (occasionally 2 ) vehicle(s)
for the pilot provinces may be purchased from the International Agency Procurcment Services
Offices (IAPSO) of UNDP in order to expedite program implementation at provincial level.
International Shopping (IS) and Limited International Bidding (LIB) procurement procedures
may be required for individual contracts below the respective thresholds of US$50.000 and
US$100,000 equivalent. for the purchase of specialized goods, such as textbooks. software and
equipment. up to the aggregate limit of US$250,000 and US$1,000,000 respectively. as specified
in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). Direct Contracting will be used only in
exceptional cases, wvhen no competition is expected such as for the purchase of proprietary
software and small quantities of spare parts for existing equipment.
Procurement of Consulting Services: Consulting services for TA, capacity building and
training constitute an essential part of the Program. Consultants, both national anid intemational,
will be needed at central level to reinforce the capacitv of MINED to manage the Program and
coordinate the numerous activities tinder the program. Provincial MINED offices and districts
will also need technical support for managenment. procurement, supervision, marketing of
textbooks and technical advice to coimmiiiuinities and districts. MINED center will have the
responsibility for drafting TORs for the consulting assignments and selecting suitable consultants.
MINED center will also have to draft standard TORs for the most common assignments for use of
the provinces. IDA procedures w ill be followed throughout and consulting services expected
under the program w ill be advcrtised in Developmcnt Business prior to implementation and
updated each y ear.
Selection Methods: The mcthlod of selection is described in the DCA. The Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS) metlhod will be general used under the program though other methods
such as the selection by qualifications (e.g. for groups of "animators" in rural areas) or by fixed
budget in case of periodically repeated services for which estimates are clearly determined such
as administrative tasks or auditinig assignme1cnits. Training contracts will follow the same selection
procedures used for conisultinig assignmients, though in special cases such as attendance to
specialized courses. a particular Institution mav be designated. Sole Source selection of
consultants will be made only! in exceptionally circumstances, with IDA prior agreement and as
provided for in the DCA. The selection procedures for contracts above US$100,000 and the
TORs of each assignment will be subJect to prior review.
Individual consultants will be selected under the procedures specified in Section V of the Bank
Procurement Guidelines for the use of consultants, on the basis of their qualifications through



Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
comparison with other candidates qualifications. The TORs of each assignment and the selection
procedures for individual consultants for contract values above the threshold of US$50.000
equivalent will be subject to IDA prior review.
Implementation Manuals and Standard Documents: Bank Procurement Guidelines and SBDs
will be used for all ICB procurement. Standard bid documents, contracts and specifications will
be used for NCB procurement at provincial level. A manual of simplified construction
techniques and procurement procedures for use of the communities and NGOs w-ill be used at
district level. MiNED center wvill have the responsibility for the drafting and distribution of
manuals and standard documents to the provinces. The provincial MINED officcs Nwill have to
maintain a complete library of the documentation for use of the districts.
Prior and Post Review of Procurement: Contracts for works under ICB and NCB contracts
above US$200.000 and the first 5 NCB contracts of any value carried out bv eaclh province w ill
be subject to IDA prior review. Similarly, ICB contracts for goods and any contract over
US$100,000 and the first 5 NCB contracts of any value carried out at provincial level wvill also be
subject to prior review. LIB. IS and requests for the use of direct contracting will have to be
approved by the Bank. The review process for ICB would include advertising in Devclopmncit
Business, the review of the SBDs aid specifications. tendering procedures and evaluation reports.
and contract signature. In addition. anv standard bid document for NCB. the malnuals of
procedures, the standard design and specifications for classrooms and embryo structures to be
used throughout the program will be reviewed and approved by the Bank before their release. All
other procurement will be subject to post-review of a representative sample of contracts on a
yearly basis. Third party verificationi of procurement actions at provincial and district level may
also be carried out and financed unider the program. Information to be revieced may include
compliance with procurement procedures, schedules of implementation. cost comparisoni and
contractual claims. TORs for all consulting assignments and training contracts. and contracts for
consulting services above the threslhold of US$100.000 (for firms) and $50.(0() for individual
consultanits will be subject to prior review.
Procurement Schedules: Procuremiient under ESSP will be a complex activity requiring strategic
planning and monitoring skills. MINED center will have the responsibility to coordinate and
maintain a general implemlentationi schedule for all the Program. Each of the Provincial offices.
however, will be required to maintain a bar chart of the procurement activities under their
administration. Delays in construction or delivery of equipment will be immediatcly noted and
contractors/suppliers reminded of their obligations. Programs for ICB procuremenit during the
first two years of implementation will have to be prepared by MINED prior to implementation.
Table I and Tahle 2 at the end of the annex show the prociurement methods and the allocation o*f
Crecit proceeds.
Harmonization of Donors Procurement Procedures: The ESSP has attracted the interest of a
large number of donors presently supporting the education sector in Mozambique. Harnonization
of procurement and disburscltlemet procedures is feasible under the Program and has been subject
of a detailed study by IDA (see Mr. F. Sarno "Donors Harnonization Report for ESSP and
PROAGRI in Mozambiquc"). It is expected that some of the donors will agree on common
thresholds for procuremenit under NCB the use of post-review and of reporting formats. Donors
may also agree on the use of standard documents and procedures for advertising, evaluating and
awarding the contracts. IDA proccdures and documentation will be followed for all ICB
procurement. GOM procurclllemet regulations may be used for NCB contracts, provided that IDA
procurement regulations would prevail in case of conflict.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
Priority Actions for ESSP Procurement Implementation: The following actions will be taken
by central and provincial MINED prior to Program implementation:
Organizational Set-up (HQ)
1.     Establishment of coordination unit for program implementation in MINED.
2.     Capacity building to at least 4 staff MINED HQ in procurement (goods. works.
textbooks). Seminar to be held in Maputo in March 1999.
3.     TA to MINED HQ for procurement/planning (2 y ears contract)/preparation
implementation schedules/ drafting of standard bid documents and specifications/ preparation and
carrying out of workslhop for provincial staff etc.
Organizational Set-up (Provincial)
I.     Reinforcement of provincial offices through hiring of qualified technical / supcrvision
staff giving priority to the pilot provinces
2.     Capacity building in procurnment/disbursement of at least 2 staff from each Province
(participation to procuremlent scminiar in March, 1999)
3.     Establish suitable tlhresholds of authoritv for provincial MINED offices.
Organizational Set-up (District)
I .    Select pilot commiLunities for initial Program implementation
2.     MINED to cam' out constniction pilots and simple administration demonstrations at
selected commullities
3.     Establislhment of Comm11unitV Management Committees / Caixa Escolar with authority to
sign contracts
Program Planning
1.     Definitioni of priority itemIls (fax. computer. printer) for pilot MINED offices at
provincial level for purchasc throuiglh IAPSO
2.     Discriminiationi and packagiiig of procuremenlt quantities by item/by vear for each
province
3.     Discriminationi capital/rccurrent/training expenditures by year/by province
Program Scheduling
1.     MINED (HQ): implciiementationi schedule for ICB procurement (first 2 years)
2.     Provinces: implementation schedule of NCB procurement for goods and works for the
first 2 years



Annex 6
Page 6 of 7
3.     District: definition of needs (classrooms, schools, housing.) for construction /
procurement under the program
Procurement of Works (HQ)
1.     Completion of standard construction designs / specifications for classrooms. schools and
teachers' houses
2.     Drafting of standard bid documents for use in NCB contracts
3.     Drafting of manuals for use at community level
Procurement of Vehicles, Equipment (HQ)
I .    Drafting of techlical specifications
2.     Drafting of standard bid documents (SBD) for international competition
3.     Purchase of priority items through IAPSO
Procurement of Furniture, Locally Available Goods
1.     Drafting specifications (in coordination with MINED provincial offices)
2.     Determination of quantities for each financial vear
3.     Listing of available suppliers/contractors/technical advisors
Procurement of Textbooks
1 .    Undertake study for commcrcialization of DINAME
2.     Advertising in Developmenlt Business / magazines
3.     Detenninationi of imillorities languagc textbooks for primarv schools
Consulting Services
1.     Determinationi of autilority responsible for consultants hiring
2.     Drafting of TORs for consultinig assignmenclts
3.     Drafting of long-list of nationlal /international experts
Donors Harmonization
1.     Preliminary donors mappinlg by component/ amounts/regional areas
2.     Procurement hanmonization mecting betwcen donors/Borrower



Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
Procurement Monitoring
1. Determination of national procedures for monitoring
2. Determnination of disbursements/financial procedures for procurement
3. Determination of national procedures for technical supervision
Tables
Table 1: Procurement Method
Table 2: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table 1.  Procurement Method (US$'000)
ICB        NCB        OTHER        Consulting    NBF      TOTAL
Services
A. Civil Works                    12,500      18,500                              31,00(
B. Vehicles/             900        300          100                               1,300
Motorcycles
C. Equipment           1,000        200          100                               1 ,300
D. Furniture                       4,000                                           4,000
E. Technical                                                7,600                  7.600
Assistance
F. Training                                                 8.100                  8i10(
G. Studies                                                   1,300                 1.300
H. Textbooks           3.500       2,000       1,500                               7,000
I. Operational                                 4,400                               4.400
Costs
J. Grants                                      5,000                               5,000
K. Salaries
TOTAL                  5,400      19,000      29,600       17,000                 71,000
Table 2. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Categorv    Amount in US$    % of Expenditures to
million          be Financed
Civil Works                 27.7        100% Foreign, 90%
Local
Goods                       13.6        100% Foreign, 90%
Local
Consultant Services,        17.0        100%
incl. Training
Operational Costs            4.4       90%
Grants                       5.0       95%
Unallocated                  3.3
TOTAL                        71.0



Annex 7
Page I of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Program Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned                     Actual
A. Program Budget            US$ 331,300                 US$ 439,000
Planned                     Actual
B. Program Schedule
Time taken to prepare        15 months                   21.0 months
prograrn (months)
First Bank mission           12/96                        12/96
(Identification)
Appraisal mission departure    03/23/98                  06/22/98
Negotiations                 07/15/98                     12/14/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness   12/31/98                 06/1/99
Composition of Task Team
I _________________________      Bank   Team
Donald Hamilton              Cluster Leader/Task     AFTH I
Team Leader
Ricardo Silveira             Sr. Economist           LCSHD
Soren Nellemann             Economist                AFTH I
Lavinia Gasperini           Education Specialist     LCSHD
Maria Madalena dos Santos    Sr. Education Specialist   LCSHD
Inacio Manecas              Social Sector Program    RM
Officer
Natalia Moncada             Team Assistant
Lydia Tabi                  Team Assistant
William Saint                Sr. Education Specialist   AFTI2
Cecilia Valdeviso           Sr. Education Specialist-  PGP
Girls Education
Francesco Sarno             Procurement Specialist   AFTS I
Kishor Uprety               Law-yer                  LEGAF
Hovsep Melkonian            Sr. Disbursement Officer  LOAAF
Steve Gagines               Sr. Disbursement Officer  LOAAF
Marcus Sugar                Sr. Disbursement Officer  LOAAF
Anthony Hegarty              Financial Management    AFTS 1
Specialist             _
Stavros Apergis             Economist                Consultant



Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
Seljan Riddle               Budgeting and Planning   AFTRI
Specialist
Peter Morrison              Consultant             Bank consultant
Stavros Apergis             Economist              Bank consultant
Izione Silva                Education Specialist   Bank consultant
Consultant
Gus Raposo                  Disbursement Analyst    LOAAF
Pieter Smoor                Architect              Bank consultant
Andre Cosino Tolentino      Sr. Education Policy   Bank consultant
Maker
Extended Team
Capacity Building                                  SIDA, WB, Irish Aid
Teacher Training                                    GTZ, Danida, UNICEF, the
Netherlands, SIDA, WB,
EU, Dfid
Educational Materials                              SIDA, the Netherlands,
WB, Danida, GTZ
Distance Education                                 UNDP, ADB, WB
Construction                                       ADB, WB, Finnida,
.==____________________ _ =Danida, the Netherlands
Technical Education                                 Finnida, IDB, EU
Quality Assurance Team
Peer Reviewer               David Plank            University of Michigan
[ ________________________ _ |Cecilia  Valdivieso   PGP
Patrick Murphy         AFTHI
Eugene Boostrom        EDIHR
Dzingai Mutumbuka      AFTHI
Quality Assurance Group     Surendra Agarwal       AFTS I
Adriaan Verspoor       AFTH3
Jamcs Socknat          ECSHD
Mac Chu Chang        _MNSHD



Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
Ministry of Education Team
Amaldo V. Nhavoto            Minister                           MINED
Zeferino A. Martins          Deputy-Minister                    MINED
Adelino J. Da Cruz           Secretary General                  MINED
Zefanias Muhate              Adviser to the Minister           MINED
Simao Mucavele               Director (INDE)                   MINED
Telmina P. Pereira           Director, Technical Education     MINED
Daniel N. Bomba              Director, Secondary Education     MINED
Ernesto Muianga              Director, IAP                     MINED
Manuel M. Gomes              Director, GEPE                    MINED
Ant6nio Chambal              Director, DAF                      MINED
Cristina Tembe               Director, Basic Education         MINED
Manuel Lobo                  Planning Deputy Director          MINED
Abel Assis                   Head Assessment and Examination   MINED
Miguel Inacio                Caixa Escolar Tean member         MINED
Manuel M. Rego               Education Planner                 MINED
Andre Utui                   Planning Officer                   MINED
Fernanda Uachave             Gender Unit                       MINED
Maria de Fatima              Head Teacher Education            MINED
Augusto Alexandre            Officer, IAP                       MINED
Carlos Manhica               Special Education Officer         MINED
Gilda Mahumane               Inspector                         MINED
Moises Matavele              Head Human Resource               MINED
Virgilio Juvane              Planning Director                  MINED



Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program(ESSP)
Documents in Project File
1. Brickhill, '!. and Lindahl. B. (1998) Towards a National Policv for Educational Marterials in
Mozamibique. Giraphium Consult AB. April, 1998.
2. de Fatirma, M. and Dzvimbo, K. P. (1998) Teacher Education Reforn Project Proposal: Processes.
Content and Stcturne of the 10+1+1 Model. Republica de Mocambique. Ministerio da Educacao.
Maputo, December 20. 1997 - Januarv 6, 1998.
3. Minist6iio da Educacao ( 1998) Refor9o da Capacidade Institucional do Ministeino da Educacao.
Task Teaml. Maputo. I de 1998.
4. Minist6iio da Educa~io ( 1998) MOZ - Education Sector ExpenditureProgramme (1998-2002) Civil
Works Comnponent. GEPE. April 1998.
5. Ministerio daEducasao. Instituto Nacional do Desenvolvimento daEducaqao. (1998)Availiaao do
Plano Estrat6gico da Educa~ao - Maio, 1998. Projecto da Transformac,o Curricular: Situacao Actual.
Maputo, 12 de Maio de 1998.
6. Minist6rio da Educa,co. Instituto Nacional do Desenvolvimento daEducac,o. (1998) Programa de
Actividades do M[NED para 1998.
7. Nellemrann. S., Juvane. V. et al (1998) Financial Plan Education Sector Strategic Plan 1997-2001.
Repuiblica de Moarambique, Ministerio da Educaqao. March, 1998.
8. Republica de Mosambique, Ministerio da Aministrasao Estatal (1998) Reforma da Administracao
P"blica Perspectivas e Estrategias. Maio de 1998.
9. Repiblica de Moarambiquc. Ministerio da Educacao ( 1998). Education Sector Strategic Plan 1997-
200 1. "Reviving Schools and Expanding Opportunities." Maputo, April 1998.
10. Repuiblica de Moqambique, Ministerio da Educaeao (Undated). Strategic Plan for Education 1997-
2001. Adult and Non-formal Educationi. (Matrix)
11. Republica de Moqalnbique. Ministnrio da Educaeao (Undated). Strategic Plan for Education 1997-
2001. Teacher Training. (Matrix)
12. Republica de Molambique, Ministerio da Educaeao (Undated). Strategic Plan for Education 1997-
200 1. Secondary Education. (Matrix)
13. Repulblica de Moarambique. Minist6rio da Educaeao (Undated). Strategic Plan for Education 1997-
200 1. Technical and Vocational Education. (Matrix)
14. Repuiblica de Moqambique, Ministerio da Educaqao (Undated). Strategic Plan for Education 1997-
2001. Institutional Capacity Building. (Matrix)



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
15. RepuTblica de Mocambique, Ministerio da Educa,co (Undated). Strategic Plan for Education 1997-
2001. Primary Education. (Matrix)
16. Republica de Mocambique. Ministerio da Educacao (1998) Politica Nacional sobre Livros e Materias
Escolares. Maio. 1998.
17. Republica de Mocambique. Ministerio da Educacao (1998) National Policv on1 Textbooks and
Learning Materials. May. 1998.
18. Republica de Mo$ambique. Ministerio da Educacao. Direc,co de Recursos Hurnanos Gabinete do
Director. (1998) A Questao dos Incentivos para os Professores e Outros Tcnlicos da Educa,ao.
Mapotu, 13 de Maio 1998.
19. Republica de Mocambique. Ministerio da EducaSao (1998) National Policv oil Textbooks amd
Learning Materials. Executive Summarv. May. 1998.
20. Technical Advisory Group (1998) Towards a Sector-Wide Approach to Programmining in the Health
Sector: Options for Dialogue and Action. March,1998.
21. Walker, Bridget M. (1998) Mainstreaming Gender in the Education SectorSrategic Plan 1997-2001:
Plan of Action. Rep6blica de Mocambique, Ministerio da Educacao. Febmary 1998.
22. PROAGRI Appraisal Mission (1998). Final Aide Memoire. 8 Mav 1998.
23. Republica de Mocamnbique. Ministerio da Educac,o/ASDI (1998) Programa de Reforco da
Capacidade Institucional do MINED 1998-2001
24. Human Capital and Social Welfarc in Mozambique. IAF (1998)
25. Repuiblica de Mo,amnbiquc. Ministcrio da Educacao/World Bank (1998) Finanicial Management
Review



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 01/08/99
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mozambique
Operations Portfolio
As of 04-Jan-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in us$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 20
Active Projects
HZ-PE-39015    1998   GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE          NATIONAL WATER I                        0.00       36.00        0.00             34.49        1.02        0.00
mZ-PZ-1792      1996   GOVT                             HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                     0.00       98.70        0.00             79.41       45.04        0.00
NZ-PE-1780      1994   GOVT                             GAS ENGINEERlING(ENGY                   0.00       30.00        0.00             10.98        7.88        0.00
HZ-PE-1804      1994   GOVERNMENT                       2ND ROAD AND COSTAL                     0.00      188.00        0.00             92.58       52.78        0.00
MZ-PE-isil      1994   GOm                              FINANCE SECTOR CAPAC                    0.00        9.00        0.00              4.49        3.85        0.00
HZ-PZ-1791      1993   GOVT                             LOCAL GOVERNMENT  EN                    0.00       23.20        5.02              8.00       12.99        6.70
NE-PZ-1797      1993   GON                              CAPACITY BUILDING(NU                    0.00       48.60        0.00             23.22       21.92        0.00
MZ-PE-1810      1993   GOM                              LEG & PUB SEC. CAPAC                    0.00       15.50        2.93              1.88        4.80          .58
NZ-PZ-1781      1992   GOVT.                            AGR.SER. RENAB.                         0.00       35.00       12.30             10.09       16.61          .92
NZ-PZ-1790      1992   GOVT OF NOEAMBIQUE               FIRST ROAD S COASTAL                    0.00       74.30        0.00             20.43       18.14        0.00
Total                                                                                           0.00      558.30       20.25            285.57      185.03        8.20
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                251.94           1,077.62            1,329.56
of which has been repaid:                  0.00               5.27                5.27
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                538.05           1,052.39            1,590.44
Amount sold                                      0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid                               0.00                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbur-ed                              285.57               33.06             318.63
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Nov-98.
0G
- '0
Generated by the Operations Intormation Sy stem (0IS)



Annex IO
Page I of 2
Mozambique at a glance                                                                        10/1/98
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Saharan       Low-
Mozambique       Africa   income       Development dimond-
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                          18.5        614     2,048                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas mnethod, US$)                        90        500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                          1.7        309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (96)                                           4.2        2.7        2.1
Labor force (%)                                           3.3        2.6        2.3     GNP                    .           Gross
per    L             7         4primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                   capea                          enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                   36         32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           45         52        59
Infant mortality (per f,000 live births)                  120         90        78
Child malnutrtion (% of children under 5)                  47                   61                Access to safe water
Access to safe svater (% of population)                    32         44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                       60         43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)      60         75        91                    Mozambique
Male                                                    70         82        100                    Low-income group
Female                                                  50         67         81                                                 I
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996       1997
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billions)                                 .      4.2        2.3        2.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                             7.0       30.1       29.5                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                         3.5       20.8       18.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                -3 5       9.4       13.6
Gross national savings/GDP                                -3,9       8.0       13.0
Current account balance/GDP                              146       -27.9      -22.3     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP 1/                                  0.7        2.6       2.2   _ omesti                         Investment
Total debUGDP 1/                                   -     78.1      408.9      270.2      Savings
Total debt service/exports 1/                      -     40.8       47.4       23.8
Present value of debVGDP 1/                        -                58.5      116.5
Present value of debt/exports 1/                            -    1 345.8     708.5
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97      1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   -5.8      4.1       7.1       12.4        9.6                    Mozambique
GNP per capita                        -8.9      0.9       6.1       10.2        6.                     Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        -16.2     17.3      18.7        2.7       16.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996       1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(%of GOP)                                                                               30
Agnculture                                               41.1       31.5       31.0
Industry                                                 15.0       23.3      22.9      20
Manufacturng                                                       8.0        8.5     10
Services                                                 43.9       45.2      46.1       o
Prvate consumption                                       88.0       81.6      76.0    -10 i           93          95         97
General government consumption                           15.5        8.9       10.4                      GD1       eOGDP
Imports of goods and services                            14.0       41.5      34.1
1976-86  1987-97       1996       1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agrculture                                                0.6        8.1                60
Industry                                                  0.1       12.8                40
Manufacturng                                                                          20.          A
Services                                                  9.3        5.3
Prvate consumption                              -6.4      0.8        8.2        6.0    -2       n 92   93     5         95   97
General government consumption                  -4.9     -5.0        2.2       23.6
Gross domestic investment                       -1.6      7.9       -7.1       13.9    -4D-
Imports of goods and services                   -7.3      1.1        2.2      -0.9                    Exports     0  Imports
Gross national product                          -6.5      4.1        9.8       13.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared vvith its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Anuiex Ill
PNoe 2 of 2
Mozambiquie
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1976     1986       1996      1997       Inflation (%l
(% change)                                                                             80
Consumer prices                                          40.5      44.6        6.4    60
Implicit GDP deflator                                    12 7      40.9        8 8     40
Government finance                                                                    20 0
(% of GDP, includes cument grants)                                                      o                                      0
Current revenue                                          12.9      13.4       14 4             92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                                  -11.8        1.5       1 0             -     GDP deflator    ecP
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -17.2     -12 7      -14 2
TRADE
(US$ millions)  1976  1986  1996  1997  Export and import leveis (US$ millions)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                       79        226       234      1 000
Cashew                                         35        17        45         31
Prawn                                          12        38        80        77       750
Manufactures                                                        7          9
Total imports (cilf)                                     500        783       775       500
Food                                                               29        34       250
Fuel and energy                                 .                  78        78
Capital goods                                                      170       153        o l0         i      _ ___           IL
Export pnce index (1995=100)                      ,       97         99       100                       93   94   95   96
Import prce index (1995=100)                      ..      82        100        990 Exports                       eIlmports
Terms of trade f 1995=100)                        .      118        100       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997       Currentaccount balanceto GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions) d   d    i                                                                                       GDP 99   I
Exports of goods and services                            148        479       499       0
Imports of goods and services                            593        955       937
1-10   's      . 
Resource balance                                        -445       -476      -438
Net income                                              -178       -166      -177
Net current transfes                                       0          0         0      -30
Current account balance                                 -622       -642      -615      -40
Financing items (net)                                    646        801       751     590
Changes in net reserves                                  -24       -159      -136      e0o
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..       66        384       560
Conversion rate (DEC. locaVUSS)                30 2      404   11 293 8  11 543 6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed 1/                3,319      9,406     7,439
IBRD                                            -        0                   0      Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
IDA                                                     30      1,076     1,160                                B t 160
Total debt service 1/                                     81        227       122         F 1.924
IBRD                                            .        0          0         0
IDA                                            ..        1          7         9
Composition of net resource flovs                                                                                       D 924
Official grants                                        213        283       355
Official creditors 2/                                  325        182       176
Prvate creditors                                        48         76        47
Foreign direct investment                                2         73        64
Portfolio equity                                         0          0                               E 3,093
World Bank program
Commitments                                              0          0       100     A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                           23        221       148      B-IDA     D- Other muitilateral   F - Private
Prncipal repayments                                      1          1         2      C- IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                               22        220       146
Interest payments                                        0          7         8
Net transfers                                           22        214       138
Development Economics                                                                                                     1011/98
1/ After Naples terms rescheduling.
2/ Including IMF.



Annex 1 1
Page 1 of 11
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Curriculum Development
(Excerptfrom the Government of Mozambique/UNESCO Project Document)
Project MOF/0096102
From Section A, para. 1. Introduction
Though the poor efficiency of primary education cannot be attributed to the aims and management
of the curriculum. it may be said that these do not facilitate improving the system's efficiency, nor
permit reasonable gains from time devoted to education.
When the National Education System was introduced, primary education was organized into a first
level (EP l) lasting five vears and a second level (EP2) lasting two years. EP I was planned to have
one teacher per class. while EP2 was to be organized by subjects. with each one taught by a
different teacher.
Parallel to the introduction of the SNE, materials for pupils and teachers in all classes were
developed year by vear. The course materials were prepared in accordance with the specific
political principles and pedagogical and didactic concepts of the time. They were printed and
reprinted without the possibility of revising them.
In 1996 plans and programs for primary education prepared on the basis of the old teachers'
manuals were published. Also in 1996. revised editions of the pupils' textbooks were published,
containing alterations to some aspects of the political principles in order to make their messages
appropriate to the new scenario of peace and the transition from one-party govemment to a multi-
party parliamentary democracy. The choice and organization of the content which seemed less
bound to the old political principles were not changed, nor were the pedagogical and didactic
concepts.
Various programs of initial training and upgrading of teachers were established to meet the needs of
the expansion of primary education, of different lengths (ranging from six years of basic education
plus one of specific training to ten years of education plus two of specific training). There are
programs for EPI on the one hand and EP2 on the other, with no scheme for either making them
establishing equivalencies or coordinating between them.
When the SNE was introduced, a strategy for the educational system was designed based on ZIPs
(Zones of Pedagogical Influence), with core schools promoting the interchange of experiences and
the qualitative improvement of education. The war inhibited the possibility of advancing with a
process of decentralizing curriculum management that would encourage the ZIPs. The lack of
guidelines resulted in them becoming progressively weaker.
The difficult national situation limited access to intemational debates on pedagogy, and also
hampered the development of enough applied research to stimulate the solution of certain specific
problems, such as improving methodologies for teaching Portuguese as a second language, and
introducing mother tongues as an educational tool and - in experimental projects - content. It has
recently been possible to carry out some work towards this, but it is not yet sufficiently developed
to enable itto be generalized.



/'7.P   N  1.1
2. Previous or current technical assistance
However, even in the worst of conditions Mozambique managed to maintain a certain level of
institutional capability in the field of curricula. This is concentrated in EIDE (Na1ional inst.lttc for
Educational Development).
INDE was established in 1978 as a specialized institution subordinated to the Miriist'x'-f ErAien.
with intellectual and administrative autonomy.
It had the responsibility for preparing the teaching plans and programs, the textbooks fbr pr:  auPls
the teachers' manuals.
At the beginning of the 1980s it received support from a UNESCO/LUNDP program, t. om. P
German Democratic Republic and from researchers from other countries.
Later on the international contacts wvere discontinued and all responsibilitv for curriculum
development was removed from the institution. INDE then concentrated its efforts on research.
In 1989 SIDA (Swedish International Development Agency) financed a project evaluating scholol
books in the context of their end use. which provides a substantial base of ernpirical data. fmtn
which to take on a process of curriculum transformation.
As a continuation of that project SIDA is currently undertaking a capacity building projifct for
curriculum research. with the assistance of the Stockholm Education Lnstitute.
INDE was able to resume its international contacts, begin computerization and prorvote skills
upgrading for its staff in the context of the SIDA projects, through supervision of mastors' Lheses
and the organization of studv visits to Sweden and Southern African countnes.
From 26-28 September 1995, with the support of the Dutch Embassy and SIDA, !NDE P rgani zed aF
Conference on Curriculum Development at which the Minister of Education announecd the rrfl
to INDE of the task of curriculum development, while it would also continue to carry out tho
necessarv research.
The Institute also regained its capacity to cooperate with United Nations agencies. it is lruning a
program of bilingual education for children supported by UND, it began to orgari7e stwly visits %r
its professional staff to a wvider range of countries; and it receives technical assistance thrrough
UNESCO.
At this stage. INDE will seek to make use of the experience generated in various projects that aTe
presently being implemented by the Ministry of Education with assistance from donoi-s. The
Ministry has developed a Strategic Plan for the Education Sector, covering 1 9982 002, whi"Th
brings together the various projects in the focus of increasing the access and improving the
quality of primary education. One of these projects is the OSUWELA project for pre- and inT)
service training of primarv school teachers, which is underway in Nampula provincee vviLl Fin.rIiu,g
from the Netherlands Embassy. Other innovative projects iliclude those funded by D-n.idca in
Tete Province, the teacher training courses by ADPP, the "Our School" project by 1TTINFF, as
well as the IAP (Institute for Improvement in Teaching) capacity building progra,n, sbyred. hy



Annex I I
Page 3 of 11
UNDP. IAP developed teaching material and strategies for in-service training for teachers, which
could be used as the basis for the rapid development of a curriculum for initial teacher training
B.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
1.     The problem
The mere widening of educational opportunity through rehabilitating the schools that were
destroyed during the war and building new ones would in no way guarantee the quality of education
needed for facing the challenges of consolidating peace and democracy, promoting development
and strengthening individual capacities.
At the same time, only an education that is attractive and relevant to these challenges will attract the
attention of families and permit more boys and girls to be retained as pupils, promoting the
improved efficiency of the educational system as a whole.
It is therefore necessarv to look at "curriculum transformation", understood as an integrated process
of promoting changes in the academic structures and the teaching and learning practices in the
schools, from the starting point of a new and relevant educational concept. This process should be
nurtured with adequate "course materials", such as Curriculum Designs, pupils' textbooks and
teachers' manuals: and should be sustained by constantly reviewed social and political agreements,
management capacity and relevant studies and research.
In Mozambique a 7-vear Integrated Basic Education must be introduced, oriented towards the
satisfaction of basic learning needs and overcoming both the extreme fragmentation between the
teaching programs for the specific subjects and the disparity between the EPI and EP2 institutional
models. These problems result in a sharp break between the organizational models with which the
boys and girls must interact and make it difficult to concentrate teachers in a single school,
exhausting them by the need to interact with an excessively high number of pupils.
It is therefore vital to prepare a guiding instrument for transforming the teaching-leaming processes
in the schools. i.e. an Integrated Curriculum Design which has conceptual unity for the whole
period of time that it is necessarv and possible to devote to guaranteeing basic education.
At the same time there must be appropriate training of the teachers currently in service. Bodies
coming under the Ministry of Education are working in this direction through various projects.
However. Mozambique does not vet have a Basic Curriculum Design that enables ratification of the
different existing programns for initial teacher training and in-service upgrading - which,
furthermore, is done separately for EP I and EP2 teachers.
The Basic Curriculum Design for Teacher Training throughout primary education should facilitate
the programming and implementation of different initial training and upgrading programs,
guaranteeing the presence of a core of knowledge and basic skills in all of them. It should also
facilitate a first guideline towards two major multi-disciplinary fields for the highest classes in
primary education.
Both the Integrated Curriculum Design for Basic Education and the Basic Curriculum Design for
Teacher Training should retrieve and develop new educational concepts that respond to the needs
and demands of different social actors and incorporate contributions from the different fields of
knowledge. In order to guarantee society's commitment and institutional continuity the essential
features of these concepts must be concretized in agreements of various kinds: general declarations,
and legal andlor administrative provisions.



Annex 1 1
Page 4 of 11
The pedagogical and didactic concepts that underlie the current plans, programs. textbooks and
teachers' manuals implied a break with the colonial educational concepts, and contain rudiments
that are relevant to an education adapted to the population's needs: for example. the inclusion of
references to the rural environment. the absence of references that discriminate against
Mozambicans. and a preliminary approach to the question of teaching Portuguese as a second
language.
But at the same time these concepts correspond to a traditional paradigm that is now being left
behind. The textbooks barely recognize the pupils' previous knowledge, and tend to promote
learning exclusively through repetition and memorizing.
The teachers' manuals provide them w ith a detailed day by day program. even in some cases hour
by hour. Their production represented a huge effort to provide teachers with little training a starting
point that would enable them to manage the school routines. But the way they were conceived did
not facilitate a reinforcement of the teachers' ability to understand the principles that would enable
them to achieve better results or adapt their teaching to the conditions of student groups in specific
communities.
The result is that the pupils' main classroom activity is "listen, wait and copy".
The production of new pupils' textbooks and guidelines for the work of the teachers is therefore
indispensable.
The availability of appropriate and intemallv consistent course materials is a necessary but
insufficient condition for a real curriculum transformation. The educational institutions must be
monitored as they adopt the new materials, through appropriate strategies for curriculum
management. In order to develop these strategies a curriculum management capacity must be
created. i.e. the capacity to program and promote the appropriate use of good new course materials
in varying conditions: schools small and large. rural and urban, with students from different
cultures. 7-year or not. materials better or worse communicated, with longer or shorter school days,
with or without experience in bilingual education, etc. This capacity should be created in a
deconcentrated fonm. and not only in the central bodies of the Ministry of Education.
Finally. challenges such as those proposed above require the incorporation of research results,
intemational comparisons. monitoring and evaluation. organized by a solid institution that has
adequate staff. infrastructure and resources. Only the development of research, monitoring and
evaluation capabilities in the field of teaching-leaming can facilitate a move from the logic of
educational refonns that are carried out at regular intervals to the logic of penmanent innovation that
enables gradual improvements to be introduced.
2.     Expected results at the end of the project
It is anticipated that by the end of the project there will be a series of inputs and adequate conditions
created for the permanent improvement of the quality of education in Mozambique.
(i)    There wvill be an Integrated Curriculum Design appropriate for the expansion of Basic
Education and the improvement of its quality and efficiency, reasonably validated.



Annex 11
Page 5 of 11
(ii)    There will be a Basic Curriculum Design for Training General Teachers for 7-year Primarv
Education, reasonably validated.
(iii)   There will be appropriate agreements guaranteeing the institutionalization and continuitv
of he process of curriculum transformation
(iv)    There will be a complete set of course materials for pupils and teachers in a 7-year Primary
Education program. consistent with the Integrated Curriculum Design for Basic Education,
reasonably validated.
(v)    There wvill be a team of technicians trained in curriculum management. extending to every
province and district.
(vi)   There w-ill be a collection of studies and research on curriculum development.
(vii) INDE wvill have been strengthened as an institution dedicated
to research. development and training in curriculum questions.
3.     Beneficiary groups
The main project beneficiaries are the pupils in Basic Education, who will be able to get a higher-
quality education focussed on satisfying their basic leaming needs, which is up to date and relevant
to their integration as citizens aind to improving their productive capacities. The people of
Mozambique in general will also benefit from the project. given that the education that will develop
from the new course materials. the birth of consensus about their fundamentals and the
improvement of curriculumn management and research capacity will contribute to improving
conditions for human. and therefore for economic, political and social development.
The project will pax special attention to the participation and performance of girls in the
education system by improving teacher training, designing curricula and materials that are
gender-sensitive. anud by promoting awareness of gender issues among educational managers.
The new curriculum is further expected to promote greater participation of parents, including
mothers. in the management of schools.
The project will address gender issues in the following manner:
a)  involvement of the Gender Units of the Provincial Directorates for Education in the
process of curriculum reform, with the specific task of ensuring that local specificity
wvith regard to gender are adequately taken care of.
b)  integration of female teachers and other female education staff in carrying out studies
on current problems with the curriculum, in formulating proposals for change and in
testing and monitoring new approaches.
c)  screening of all guidelines and documents produced for gender sensitivity.
d)  inclusion of gender specific components in the monitoring and evaluation activities of
the project.
4.     Project strategy
The curriculum strategies developed in past decades had five main characteristics. Firstly, they
resorted almost exclusively to the opinions of specialists in each subject field. Secondly, they
concentrated decision-taking at the higher levels of government. Thirdly, they omitted validation
processes prior to the large-scale adoption of the course materials. Fourthly, they omitted the



Annex 11
Page 6 of I I
training of intermediate curriculum management teams, and fifthlv,. thev omitted the creation of
conditions for transiting from a logic of periodic reforms to a logic of permanent curriculum
innovation through strengthening institutional capacity for curriculum innovation, research,
development and training.
This project proposes to overcome these strategic weaknesses through the following: i) considering
the various curriculum sources simultaneousIy ii) building consensus, iii) validation, evaluation
and monitoring: iv) training-participation-action: and v) capacity building.
4.1.   Considering five curriculum sources simultaneously
The process of preparing the course materials that will nurture the Curriculum Transfomiation of
Basic Education in Mozambique. including that of Teacher Training for Primary Education, will be
supported from five sources.
The first source comprises the needs and demands of education as formulated by representatives of
national social and political organizations, enriched by proposals set out in intemational documents
signed by the Govern-rment of Mozamnbique.
The second source is different kinds of proposals for subject content (conceptual. procedural,
attitudinal) that can be tauglht according to the Mozambican academic communitv.
TIhe third source comprises the results of curriculum research carried out in Mozambique and the
results of the evaluations and monitoring studies that will take place as part of the project.
The fourth source is made up of successful intemational experiences of curriculum transformation
and their products. whdich can be studied on the ground with the help of study visits or through
publications and the contributions of intemational consultants and experts.
The fifth source will be "good teaching experience". using experienced teachers to "filter" the
subject contents from the perspective of whether they contribute to different basic leaming needs
and their relevance to the national educational realitv, selecting and organizing those that are richest
pedagogically and developing them as necessary in order to guarantee their teaching and leaming.
4.2.   Building consensus
Considering the needs and demands of education as one of the sources for building the curriculum
encourages the possibility that the curriculum will be perceived as belonging to society as a whole,
but does not guarantee it.
'The needs and demands of education can be identified in different ways. One is to carry out studies
and research oriented to this end. This brings with it the risk that, while the needs detected and the
proposals for satisfying them have been detenmined in an appropriate way, the curriculum proposals
as a whole come to be perceived as the exclusive patrimony of a small group of researchers and
writers from the State or from a government that is necessarily transitory.
To minimize this risk a strategy of building consensus will be used. This will consist in creating a
National Advisorv Commission on Curriculum Transformation, with a membership based on
criteria of political, economic, social, religious, academic and cultural representation.



Annex 11
Page 7 of 11
The Commnission's functions will be to channel society's demands in relation to Basic Education and
build consensus around the essential features of the curriculum transformation, with the purpose of
guaranteeing continuity in the context of a multi-party regime.
The Commission will have about 50 members, with the following tentative composition:
Members of MINED
Members of the Assembly's Education Commission
Rectors of the universities
Representatives of the main religious faiths
Social and political personalities from the provinces (2 per province)
Representatives of the main Mozambican NGOs
Representatives of the main business and trade union associations
The Advisory Commission will meet regularly, analyze the various proposals prepared by INDE
and channeled to it througlh the Ministry of Education, propose ways of formalizing the consensus
achieved through agreements or legal or administrative norms, and will draft these documents,
taking them to other relevant bodies as appropriate.
4.3.   Validation, evaluation and monitoring
Even though experienced teachers participate in the production of the various course materials,
there is always the risk that the product will be remote from the reality of the schools, the language
of the children and the possibilities for creative use by the teachers. To avoid this risk there will be
a strategy of preparing separate versions of the materials, which will be validated and modified on
the basis of their use and of evaluations of processes and learning achievements and monitoring
graduates, in accordance witlh the tvpe of material.
A first complete Draft of the Integrated Curriculum Design for Primary Education will be validated
through use in nonnal teaching conditions in a designed sample of 22 7-year schools located in
different provinces and witlh distinct characteristics: urban, rural, large, small, serving defined
linguistic communities. etc. The results of the use of this Draft will enable it to be transformed into
a First Edition of the Integrated Curriculum Design.
The design and implementation of a first sanmpling operation for evaluating processes and leaming
achievements in a representative sample of 7-year primary schools will provide knowledge of the
starting point prior to generalizing the use of the new course materials. A second sampling will
enable evaluation of the first stage of generalization of the First Edition of the Integrated
Curriculum Design for Primary Education and of the teaching materials. The data gathered from
this and the contributions from various basic research projects will enable the production of a
Second Edition of the Design and the materials.
Given the degree of urgencv in changing teacher training, the fact that there are only 18 Teacher
Training Centers in the country and the need to evaluate the teacher training through its impact, it is
proposed to prepare a Draft of the Basic Curriculum Design to be used directly in all the training
establishments, do a monitoring study of the pedagogical techniques of the first graduates and make
an immediate revision of the Draft, transforming it into a First Edition of the Basic Curriculum
Design.



Annex I1
Page 8 of 11
4.4. Training-participation-action
With the aim of ensuring greater participation from the educational actors themselves in the
preparation of course materials, and at the same time of guaranteeing upgrading skills for the
deconcentrated management of curriculum transformation. a process of training-participation-action
will be organized-
A National Curriculum Management Team will be established, with the following functions: i)
training itself for the increasingly decentralized management of curriculum transforinationw ii)
participating in the preparation of course materials: iii) participating in designing a strategy for
transforming the Teacher Training Centers: and iv) participating in designing an increasingly
decentralized strategy for generalizing the Curriculum Transfonnation of Primary Education.
The National Curriculum Management Team will have approximately 350 members as followvs:
I    Heads of Curriculum Transformation (1 per province)
4 1    Ministrv of Education Inspectors
1 20    Pedagogical Technicians presently in the Ministry of Education (I per Department)
22     Directors of the validating primary schools
I 8    Directors of the Teacher Training Institutes
110    Experienced primary school directors (approximately 10 per province)
A program of training-participationi-action w-ill be planned for developing with this team in three
phases: i) conceptual strengtlheninig and participation in preparing the Draft and the First Version of
the Integrated Curriculum Design for Primary Education. ii) Design and preparation of a strategy
for monitoring the generalization of the Integrated Curriculum Design for Basic Education with
support from the ZIPs. and iii) Monitoring the process of generalizing the Integrated Curriculum
Design with support from the ZIPs.
It is anticipated that the training-participation-action program will guarantee 320 hours of individual
activitv. divided into two meetings per year from month 7 of the project onwards, with phases of
work on the ground in between meetings. The provision of approximately 4,000 pages of reading
material per team participant is anticipated. at a rate of roughly 1,000 pages per year.
4.5. Capacity building
It is planned to continue with capacity building for curriculum development, bringing in consultants
from a broader range of countries. developing a program of study visits for looking at educational
research and curriculum transformation programs in other countries, and promoting participation in
intemational meetings on these questions.
It is also planned to organize dialogues and debates at international level in Mozambique, with the
presence of professionals in policy design and curriculum research and development, aimed at
opening up more possibilities for exposure to current concepts and experiences and nurturing the
training-participation-action processes. taking advantage of the visitors as speakers or panelists in
the planned activities and also as skilled contacts for the Advisory; Commission.
The continuation and updating of the process of equipping and computerizing INDE is also
planned, with the aim of enabling it to supply the needs of the project, particularly through the rapid
reproduction of small quantities of the printed materials, making maximum use of new technologies
for producing them and for providing access to and processing of national and intemational
information.



Annex 11
Page 9 of 11
Reinforcing INDE's librarv as a specialized library in Curriculum Research and Development is
also planned, providing it with the academic material, textbooks and teachers' manuals it needs for
its activities.
4.6    A process approach
The present project document presents a general outline of the strategies and activities of the
project during a period of five years and also a specific activitv plan. The outline is still rather
general in nature, the reason for this being that it will onlv be possible to fill in the contours of the
curriculum plan and how it will be designed and tested once existing research on problems in the
curriculum has been svstematized. further studies have been conducted and the consultation
process on what basic education should entail has been carried out. A process approach is
therefore required in this project whereby subsequent steps in the project are defined and taken as
a clearer picture emerges of learning needs and outcomes, how the curriculum reform will take
place and what its implications will be. This process approach is based on the assumptions that:
a) An exercise of tlis nature requires careful reflection and broad-based consultation to
ensure that needs are adequately identified and different dimensions addressed. A
process-approach is therefore required bv which the results of past evaluations and
discussions w itlh different stakelholders are translated into strategies and proposals which
are tested, validated or rejected and then implemented on a wider scale. In this manner,
the Ministry of Education hopes to ensure that a framework and conditions are
established which will ensure that curriculum reform becomes an integral part of the
education process and an on-going activity.
b) Specific activities and strategies will be decided upon once a more concrete proposal for
the curriculum has been prepared. This proposal will be prepared during the inception
phase of the project and will be based on a process of extensive research and consultation
whilst at the sane time activities are implemented which will ensure that the necessary
conditions exist to experiment and launch the Integrated Plan. The inception phase
(covering the first two y ears) w1ill therefore focus, amongst others, on:
*  svstematization of existing studies;
*  carrying out further studies in areas where more information is required (two
such studies are presently on-going with funds which the Netherlands Embassy
has advanced to INDE).
*  designing and establishing an organizational structure for the project including
the establishment of the Steering Committee (which will integrate representatives
from the Ministry of Education, UNESCO and the various donors), the National
Consultative Forum for Curriculum Transformation, and the National and
Provincial Groups for the Promotion of Curriculum Transformation.
*  on-the-job training for staff at INDE and at provincial education directorates;
*  the definition and discussion of leaming outcomes for students leaving grades 5
and 7:
*  setting-up of Resource Centres for the Promotion of Curriculum Transformation
in all of the I I Provincial Education Directorates.
*  broad-based discussions with stakeholders from various levels and various walks
of life. including extensive consultations with the ZIPs on the proposed
curriculum.
The outcome of the inception phase will be an Integrated Plan for the Curriculum for Basic
Education and Teacher Training which will be based on broad-based discussions and
consultations with various stakeholders in the education process, on the results of studies and



Annex I I
Page 10 of 11
evaluations of the current education system, and on comparisons with examples of good practice
from other areas of the world. This plan includes a curriculum framework with outcomes,
learning areas, categories of content, didactical approaches, types of materials and monitoring
procedures and will also provide summarized syllabi for each subject area. A summary of the
expected outputs for the inception phase can be found attached to this Activity Appraisal
Document.
This Plan will guide the activities of the project over the remaining three y ears during which the
following broad areas of activity will take place:
* extensive testing of guidelines, materials and approaches in 22 schools from different
areas of the country and revision of the relevant aspects on the basis of the results;
* in-service training of education staff at different level to introduce. monitor and provide
support to the process of curriculum transfornation;
* gradual introduction of the new curriculum;
* establishment of an organizational framework and institutional capacity capable of
promoting a process of continuous curricular experimentation which becomes
increasingly decentralized.
Such a process-approach will require careful monitoring and sufficient flexibility to allow
strategies and plans to be changed (quite dramatically, if necessary) on the basis of results to be
obtained. These changes mav even affect the duration of the project, its staffing, budgets, etc.
To allow for flexibility key dimensions of the present project are, therefore:
a) Division of the project into two phases. The inception phase (outlined above as well as in
the attached project document) which will have a duration of two years, followed by an
implementation phase (with a probable duration of 3 years) covering testing, adaptation
and gradual introduction of the new curriculum.
b) Two independent evaluations, the first of which will take place in months 22-24 of the
project. that is at the end of the inception phase. This evaluation will determine project
activities from vear three onwards. The second independent evaluation will take place at
the end of the five y ear period.
c) Establishment of a Steering Committee to monitor the progress of the project against
plans. to approve activitv and financial plans for the following period, and to formnulate
recommendations on changes in approaches, activities, etc. The mandate of this Steering
Committee is outlined in more detail under paragraph G below.
d) Establishment of various other consultative bodies and working teams at different levels
to ensure that decisions are based careful consideration of policies, priorities and realities
of the education system.
5.     Institutional agreements
The project will be carried out bv the Government of Mozambique and located in INDE. It will
rely on assistance from UNESCO for administration, coordination of international technical
assistance, guidance for the organization of study visits abroad, and permanent technical assistance
throughout its activities. A team of three people will guarantee UNESCO's participation in the
project: a Chief Technical Adviser, an Administrative and Secretarial Assistant and a driver.
6.     Special considerations
Curriculum transformation projects are particularly sensitive to influences of ideas and the transfer
of developments from other realities. When these ideas and developments do not correspond to a
representative range of the state of current thinking at international level, the process and its



Annex 11
Page 11 of 11
products risk being impoverished. On the other hand, when contributions from different countries
and institutional frameworks are added together in an uncoordinated way, the danger is that they
will not be used to best advantage. Special attention will therefore be given to promoting contact
with a varied range of ideas and experiences and coordinating the contributions.
At the same time, curriculum transfornation in reality begins in the respective directorates. This
project will therefore also support two National Directorates, which will be responsible for
generalizing the use of the new materials and creating a new educational culture in the schools.
Coordination with the Directorate of Primary Education and the body in charge of Teacher Training
will therefore be a priority throughout the project.
Finally, this project does not aim to produce all the basic and applied research needed to make an
adequate response to the challenges of curriculum development, but only that considered to be an
absolute priority. INDE is also undertaking projects for a survey of spoken Portuguese in
Mozambique and the experimental development of bilingual education, the continuity of which do
not form part of this project. Both projects may provide relevant data for decision-taking on
curricula, and their continuity would enable a significant advance in knowledge about some critical
questions.
7.     Coordination
A Project Steering Committee will be formed with the function of monitoring and supervising the
project. The Committee will have a tripartite representation, with participation from the
Govemment (Ministry of Education/INDE), the donor countries, and UNESCO. This
Committee will meet every six months to analyse the implementation of project activities and
fonnulate recommendations for the following stage. Extraordinary meetings may be convened
when necessary. The UNESCO office in Maputo will be responsible for the organisation the
progress meetings in collaboration with INDE. The meetings will be chaired by the Ministry of
Education. Decisions of the Steering Committee will be taken by consensus.
The Steering Committee will have the following tasks:
- to approve the annual operational and financial plans
- to appraise the six-monthly progress report, submitted by the executing agency
- to decide on all proposed major changes in project approach, activities, staffing and budget
- to ensure that all agreements under the project are complied with, and the that project is
implemented according to the project document or to any subsequent amendments agreed
upon by the Steering Committee
- to approve the Terms of Reference of all technical reviews and independent evaluations of
the project and decide on follow-up, if required, to the conclusions and recommendations
which arise from these reviews and/or evaluations
Minutes of the meetings of the Steering Committee will be prepared by UNESCO in
collaboration with INDE. They will be distributed within two weeks after the meeting.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Institutional Development
Introduction
A systematic approach to the institutional development of MINED was initiated in 1995, with
assistance from various donors, to strengthen the management capacity of the Ministry especially
in a number of critical areas. These initiatives were important following the war, which disrupted
activities in most parts of the country, and given the generally limited number of qualified people
in the country. This effort has been supported bv Bank operations in Mozambique. especially the
Capacity Building Project. which is supporting secondary and higher education to provide a pool
of qualified people to manage the civil service and the private sector. This is especially important
for MINED which needs to manage an expanding program in a rapidly growing economy, and
which is also gradually decentralizing management of the sector to the provinces and districts to
improve efficiency in the deliver! of services. The policies and measures introduced over this
period were based on a global assessment of current management practices and capability,
including operational procedures and methods. This assessment, as well as the development and
implementation of the program, were conducted using a participatory approach. This has resulted
in ownership and an identification with the objectives and activities by staff at all levels in
MINED. The program was also designed using a modular approach to permit flexibility in the
introduction of revisions as the needs of MINED evolve. MINED plans to build on this
foundation by conducting a more thorough analysis of each administrative unit of the Ministry at
the central, provincial and district levels. as a basis for defining the capacity needed in each
section and at each level for efficient and quality delivery of education. This analysis will be
completed prior to Programn Effectiveness, and implementation of the recommendations will be
integrated witlh the other measures and investments planned under the ESSP.
As currently defined the capacity building program will cover:
improvement of the organizational structure and management systems of the ministry;
improvement of planning and monitoring of programs;
development of the capacity for managing and coordinating programs;
strengthening of financial and procurement management
improvement of the management of human resources; and
development of a public relations capacity in the ministry.
Within these broad areas, special attention will be paid to areas critical to the education sector
such as training of head-teachers. capacitv needed for upgrading the Zonas de Influencia
Pedagogica (ZIP). training of inspectors and training of provincial and district level staff.
Current Status of Implementation
Implementation of the program was initiated in 1996 with a seminar for the top managers in
MINED, namely the Minister, the Vice-Minister and the Permanent Secretary. The purpose of
the seminar was to discuss the mission of MINED, assess the capacity of the structure to carry out
its mission, and more specifically to examine the role of the leadership of MINED, and to
determine how the leadership could be strengthened to perform its role more effectively. This
seminar was followed by a seminar for all managers and key staff at the central level and
Provincial Education Directors in Matola in August 1998, and a management seminar for the
province of Nampula in September 1998. The annual co-ordination seminar with the provinces



Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
and districts, at which an evaluation of the annual Nvork program is discussed. and plans made for
the following year, was expanded to include key staff from all levels and used as an opportunitv
to discuss the mission of MINED and management procedures and behavior at all levels. These
seminars will be an integral part of the capacity building process. Bv March 1999. each Province
would have organized a seminar based on the e-,perience at Nampula and focused on local
planning and implementation capability for the ESSP. Some partners already expressed their
interest to assist MINED in undert.aking this task.
Key Issues and Actions Taken
Coordination of Implementation. An important decision of MINED vxas not to carrv-out a radical
restructuring of the Ministry. How-ever. the need for strong coordination of the implementation of
the ESSP was fully recognized- and a decision was made to set-up an implementation structure
within which this would be done. This was urgenit given the decision not to use a separate
Program Implementationi Unit (PIU) to implement the Progranm. A Comissao Instaladora
(Installation Committee) chaired bv the Vice-Minister was therefore established to recommend an
appropriate framework for implementation of the ESSP. The basic structure (Attachment l) and
termns of reference for the ESS P implementation. as proposed by the Installationi Conmmittee, are
described below. The overall structure for implementation would be as follows:
i)     The Ministcr of Education will continue to chair the Consultative Council (CC)
of MINED. which is responisible for policy fonrulation and coordination within and outside the
ministrv, until the ncw structure is ful]y functional and the CC mission is reviewed.
ii)    A SteCrin,g Com}lmiette (Comite Paritario de Acompanhamiiento, COPA) wvill be
the main vehicle for ensurling donor coordination and for monitoring and evaluating
implementation progress of the ESSP. The committee is composed of the Minister of Education.
the Vice-Minister, eiglht otlher MINED officials. one from the Ministry of Planning and Finance,
one from the Ministrv of State Administration. and nine representatives of the extemal partners in
the education sector. The 2 1 -member COPA is scheduled to meet three times per year.
Observers from MINED and partniers wiII be allowed to participate in COPA meetings on a case-
by-case basis.
iii)    A Technical Committee (TC) of the ministry will deal with technical issues. The
Vice-Minister will head the TC. which will be composed of national directors, the chairs of the
working groups. and individuals nominlated b the Minister of Education based on their expected
contributions to the implemiientation of the program. The program Executive Secretarv
(Secretario Executivo) will also be a member of the TC. No donors will be represented in this
committee.
iv)    Working Groups (U Gs) -viii be responsible for dealing with technical issues
related to the various componenits, including the preparation of technical papers, annual work
plans. annual review- of implementation. and advice on changes in the design or policies related to
the various components. These WGs will be horizontal in their composition and will be headed
by the appropriate Director or his/ler designee. The WGs will only exist for the duration
required to solve or implement a component. However, some WGs, such as the WG on Finance
and Procedures. will be permanent. This organization follows existing structures put in place by
MINED and used during the preparation of the program. The Installation Committee agreed
upon seven working groups: education quality- access and gender; institutional development;
voc/tec; adult education: higher education and research; financial management and procedures.
The overall organization has been approved by the Steering Committee (October 22, 1998) and
the terms of reference for the Steering Committee, the Technical Council, the Executive



Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
Secretariat, Institutional Development WG, and Financial and Procedures WG have been
completed.
v)     A Secretariat, composed of an Executive Secretary (Secretario Executivo) and a
few support staff, will provide administrative services to COPA, TC. and WG in coordinating and
monitoring implementation of the program, including regular donor coordination.
Within this frarnework, national directors and heads of autonomous institutions xvill take
responsibility for preparation and implementation of the program. A formal decree (No. 26/98)
establishing this structure was approved in August 1998. A similar implementation organization
will be set up at the provincial level.
Staff Qualitv in MINED. One of the challenges facing MINED is the low quality of staff over the
years and the inability to attract and retain good staff. Until rccentlv. qualified staff have been
leaving the ministry in large numbers for jobs in the university. and parastatals. In spite of this.
progress has been made in improving the quality of staff more recently. Most senior managers
now have graduate degrees. and appointment of graduates to head and staff provincial and district
directorates of education is progressing wN ell. Special attention is being paid to the less developed
provinces. An additional sixteen newv graduates in Economics, Finance and Accounting has
recently been posted to further strengthen offices in the provinces. especially in resource
management. The group of new graduates benefited from a short training course in planning.
financial, accounting and reporting before assuming their new responsibilities.
This progress is the result of a decision of MINED to improve staff quality. and a combination of
positive circumstances. The pool of qualified candidates in the education sector. including
teachers is increasing, and there is a Nwillingness to draw key managers from this pool. The good
performance of the economy has led to rising standards of living, low inflation and price
stabilization. Incentives of staff are also being improved through housing facilities, medical
insurance, and better pension conditions. Prospects for staff in MINED would be even better
with the plalned civil service reform which would permnit top managers to be offered special
conditions of employment and the decomiipression of salaries for all staff.
Future Activities
To further build on this foundation. MINED will carrv-out a more detailed institutional
assessment focusing on financial and procurement management, school construction.
management of ZIPs, district and provincial offices. An assessment of the financial and
procurement management has beeni made wvith recommendations on how it can be improved (see
Annexes 5 and 6). On the basis of this assessment, training programs have been scheduled in
these areas for staff at the central. provincial and districts prior to Program Effectiveness. The
program for this training will be based on the detailed findings of the planned detailed
assessment. A similar exercise has been undertaken for school construction with communities
and a preliminary assessment of capacity in this area has been done (see Annex 13). Proposals
for capacity building for the ZIPs has also been addressed in the context of plans for re-vitalizing
these units and are contained in the following documents:



Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
(a) Supervisao e ZIP
(b) Guia do Coordenador de ZIP
(c) Potencialidade da ZIP na Gestao de Formacao Continua de Professores
(d) Plano Nacional de Intervencao nas ZIP
The institutional assessment would build on previous activities and will be implemented in
collaboration with other donors active in the sector. It will be aimed at determining whether the
units of MINED, and all other agencies/institutions involved in the implementation of the ESSP.
have core capacity to implement the proposed program and, if necessary. to introduce measures to
strengthen this capacity. This would also include determining what needs to be done to improve
the long-term capacity of the Ministry to deliver services, beyond the implementation of this
program.
The methodology to be used in performing this institutional assessment is based on an operational
definition of capacity. Applying this definition, the capacity of all the organizations involved in
the implementation of the proposed programr will be analyzed by focusing on organization,
leadership, financial resources, material resources, human resources and work practices. The
assessment teamn will focus first on the question 'what needs to be done in order to implement the
program?', or 'for what is capacity required'?'. It will then determine 'who needs to do it'?'. or
'whose capacity within the education sector is in question'?' Answering these two questions. the
team will systematically identify all the organizations, and the organizational units, which are to
be involved in the implementation of the proposed investment program. Once these are
identified, the team will examine the five factors indicated above with respect to each and every
organization and organizational unit individually. This examination will help determine
institutional weaknesses and capacity gaps.
Four types of altemative capacity building measures will then be considered in each case where a
capacity gap is identified:
*  To change practices, ways of doing things and procedures, where such a change can improve
the capacity of the organization or unit involved. without having to allocate it more resources.
*  To allocate, or reallocate, financial and human resources for the performance of certain
activities, where the gaps are considered to be the result of inadequate resources.
*  To spread certain activities over a longer period of time, or to reduce the scope of certain
development objectives, where additional capacity is required but cannot be built
immediately, or during the currently scheduled implementation period.
* To follow a certain mix of these three alternatives.
The institutional assessment team will consist of two MOE officials and the Education Advisor,
supported by a Bank Team. The officials and the consultant will be trained to apply the
methodology. By the end of this assessment, they will be able to use the methodology to carry
out similar assessments independently. The managers of each organization and unit assessed will
be thoroughly briefed on the objectives of the capacity building initiative, as well as the
methodology, and will take an active part in the assessment and identification of solutions.
By the end of the assessment exercise, the team will produce a matrix showing unit-by-unit the
capacity gaps identified and the capacity building measures proposed to address these gaps.
Attachment II is a sample of the matrix based on the financial management requirements. If
necessary, implementation of some components would be rescheduled to meet the requirements
for capacity building. All agreed actions will be included in the program's implementation plan.
A review of capacity will be conducted annually as part of the implementation review with
donors.



MINISTERIO DA EDUCACAo
Estrutura actual
Ministro
da
Educ lao                                                    .     ...
Gabinete                      Universidade               Universidade
Ionhd                                                                                      Ministro                       Mondlane                  Pedagogica
Educac,ao                                                  Vice Ministro.
ionaelho                                                          da
de       .Edu   i5o
Reitores..               ....=                                      1
.   --   --.                .                        ...........................................................................................................................................................................
Conselho                                  :.-- -
Coordenador
GEPEmento  C oSecretario
Conselho                                         .  .   .                                                ....GP
.Consultivo   -Geral 
Documenratac3o]  l  Ce rAtiVfaica -3 o   Juridico                                                                                                              4 - D
Dire cq6es
Provinciais dle 
Educa ,c3
Drec,coes                                                                                                  C D E 
Distritais de                                                                                                0  
Educa,ao _s
altu   "1-9i



Ministro 
Reuniao Consultiva                                - l   Consel~ho (Coordenador
AnualJ|l.
,   Conselho~ Consulbivo 
ComHe ParHat6 do.ei
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ,  J
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
Vice-MUinistro 
Coseh T6i         Secretariao 
Eecufv 
Secretario   
Geral
' _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
QX4 >XLu  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D



Annex 12
Attachment I
Estructura actual:               Current Structure                                               Page 3 of 3
Ministerio da Educacao:          Ministry of Education
Ministro:                        Minister
Gabinete do Ministro:            Minister's Cabinet
Universidade Eduardo Mondlane    University of Eduardo Mondlane
Universidade Pedagogica          Pedagogical University
Colselho-Nacional de Educacao    National Council for Education
Colselho de Reitores             Council of Headmasters
Colselho Coordenador             Coordinator/Advisor's Office
Colselho Consultivo              Consultative Council of the Ministry
Secretario Geral                 Permanent Secretary
Centro de Documentacao           Documentation Center
Dept. de avaliacao e Certificacao  Dept. of Evaluation and Certification
Dept. Juridico                   Legal Department
Direccoes Provinciais de Educacao   Provincial Directorates
Direccoes Distritais de Educacao  District Directorates
ESSP Struture
Reuniao Consultivo Annual        Anmual Review
Comite Paritario                 Steering Committee
Conselho Tecnico                 Technical Coinmittee
Secretariado Executivo           Secretariat
5)N                              National Directorates 1. 2. 3...
GT                               Technical Group 1. 23.3



Annex 12
Attachment 11
Page I of I
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Stragetic Program (ESSP)
Financial Management - Draft Capacity Assessment
Capacity Gaps Identified        Capacity Building Measures
Taken/Agreed
i Organizational   Weak Directorate of Admin and    Appointment of Financial Management
Setting          Finance (DAF)                   Committee (FMC) that is
representative of relevant stakeholders
on approved TOR. Regular meetings.
2 Leadership and  DAF, Director inexperienced in    Appointment of representative (FMC)
Management       managing units using an output    on approved TOR;
budgeting system                Workshops arranged for FMC:
Quarterly reporting and meetings.
Approved Education Sector Strategic
Plan (ESSP).
3 Human          Inadequate financial management  Appointment of Financial Controller.
Resources        skills - quantitatively and     Deputy and Support Staff on agreed
qualitatively.                  TOR; Training needs identified and
substantial formal and "on the job"
training planned.
4 Material       Inadequate                      Acquisition of computer hardware and
Resources                                        software, office furniture, machinery.
vehicles, communications equipment;
Office accommodation available.
5 Practices      Inappropriate for new budgeting    Chart of Accounts agreed; Internal
system                          Controls set-up; Financial Procedures
Manual developed, Fixed Assets
Register set-up; Accounting system
installed; Cash Forecasts/Budgets
prepared; Format and content of
Financial Reports agreed; Bank
accounts in place, Decentralization
issues being addressed; External
auditors appointed; Performance
indicators in place.



Annex 13
Page 1 of 9
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
PART 1- PRIMARY SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
Background
Within the framework of the Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP), Mozambique aims to expand its
primary school network by 12,000 classrooms in the next 5 years, an increase over existing stock of about
62%. To meet this expansion all organizations and entities that have traditionally participated in the
construction of classrooms, i.e. the communities, the NGOs, donors and the state, need to play a role. How
to monitor, stimulate, coordinate and,_possibly, support the efforts of all these role-players is one of the
tasks MINED, through its proposed Working Group on Access and Gender, needs to address. Thus, the
attainment of the expansion targets set by ESSP will depend to a large extent on efforts outside the direct
control of the ministry and therefore requires close supervision and collaboration between communities and
the District or Provincial Education Offices. During the past five years, about 5,000 classrooms were
constructed, NGOs and communities contributed about 30% and 55% respectively, leaving for MINED a
share of 15%, almost entirely financed from IDA credits. Because construction by NGOs and communities
during this period was closely linked to the Peace Accord, the repatriation and resettlement and the ready
availability of relief funds (inter alia UNHCR), it is not clear what the future contribution of these groups
will be except for the CSP program. NGO activity has certainly declined in recent years with fewer
sources of funds available. No data are available on community effort.
For the purpose of quantifying and costing primary school construction of ESSP, the Governmnent has
proposed a scenario whereby MINED will contribute about 1/3 of future classroom output, NGOs will
continue to contribute less than 1/3 whilst the community share will be above 1/3'. By applying this
distribution scenario to future construction targets in each province, the number of classrooms to be built
by each group has been calculated. Construction targets are based on priorities defined according to i)
projections of student population growth, ii) accessibility of sites, iii) current construction activity and iv)
population density. In the proposed scenario, 87% of the classrooms would be in rural areas and provinces
with highest priority would be Cabo Delgado, Nampula and Niassa. During the appraisal mission in
October it was agreed that the final selection of sites would be based on actual enrollment ratios, in the
regions and the results of the school mapping exercise.
Primary school construction by MINED will increasingly involve i) the participation of communities in the
planning and implementation of projects, ii) more sustainable construction technology and iii) decentralized
management of the delivery process. To this end MINED is in the course of developing a Community
School Program (CSP) which will gradually become responsible for the construction and rehabilitation of
all primary schools. Whilst the pivotal role of the comnmunity in the delivery process remains a constant
factor, actual construction under this program might be carried out i) by communities themselves or ii)
subcontracted, in part or entirely, to NGOs, labour brigades or contractors. - One of the spin-offs of the
progran is the development of contracting capacity at the local, district and village levels while injecting
additional resources into the local economy.
' Refer GEPE-MINED, ESSP Civil Works Component, April 1998



Annex 13
Page 2 of 9
In order to ensure that sufficient classrooms are built during the early stages of the CSP, and in those areas
where communities are unwilling to play their role in the delivery process, the goverinent might continue
to build new primary schools using the traditional channels of procurement, including National Competitive
Bidding and the use of medium size and large contractors,
COMMUNITY SCHOOL PROGRAM
The Community School Program (CSP) is a national program aimed at improving and enlarging the
country's stock of primary schools with maximum participation and support of the target community. In
addition, the program is seen as a vehicle for accelerating community ownership, governance and
responsibility for its educational institutions. School construction would not be constrained by its
traditional categorization as "civil works" but would form an integrated part of the strategy towards quality
education in Mozambique.
Basic principles
The basic principle underlying the design of the program is to maintain and strengthen the ability and
capacity of communities to develop their own schools and improve the functionality and lifespan of the
structures.
Features of the program are: i) the central role of the community in the delivery and management of
schools, ii) the provision by government of financial and technical support to commnunities, iii) the
utilization of sustainable and affordable building technology, iv) financial or material contribution by the
community to the construction and maintenance of the school, v) the planning and coordinating function of
the provincial and district education authorities, vi) the involvement of local building brigades, local
contractors, NGOs and other agencies in the implementation of the program and vii) maximum
developmental impact of the program through improving skills, local job opportunities and
entrepreneurship.
The Community School Program (CSP) will assist communities with the financial means and the technical
assistance to i) add new classrooms to existing schools, ii) replace existing non-functional classrooms or iii)
build new schools in new locations. In addition, CSP will assist communities with improving works which
have already been started or completed.
CSP will work very closely with the provincial education authorities (DPE) who will appoint a project
coordinator in each province. The local commnunity, represented by the School Councils as well as the local
civil authorities, will be involved in the location and planning of the school and, depending on the
circumstances, manage the construction themselves or use local contractors or NGOs for the execution of
the work. Technical supervision, procurement assistance and building support will be provided by
MINED/GEPE through its provincial representatives in collaboration with DPE technicians, local
consultants and NGOs. To kick start the program and ensure larger coverage, NGOs will also participate
either by i) managing construction on behalf of the community, ii) supervising construction and iii) training
artisans and supervisors.



Annex 13
Page 3 of 9
Classroom Design
The aim is to create a functional learning and teaching environment by means of a structure that is easy to
build and adaptable to take into account regional differences in building tradition, climate, materials and
skills. Building specifications will also aim to maximize on site production of materials and components
and enhance labour content of the buildings. In high-density pern-urban areas schools will be adapted to
meet urban requirements for security, water, electricity supply and sewage disposal.
The design of the classroom will be based on successful yet cost effective models used in Mozambique and
in the region. Examples are the model developed by the Mozambique Program of the Lutheran World
Federation (LWF), the PRONES (Para Nossa Escola) classroom developed by UNICEF as well as the
classroom model used in Zambia by the Social Recovery Project (SRP). All these models are extensively
documented (with manuals, materials lists etc) and involve an important community participation
component. All of the models meet the requirement of being functional and simple to build, but only the
LWF model has pre-designed adaptations to different building technologies and materials. Other models
might be available in Mozambique but would need to be explored.
At the start of the project MINED will analyze various models and prepare a range of suitable designs and
components. A number of pilot classrooms and schools will be built to test different design aspects,
provide training opportunities for construction supervisors and illustrate the range of options to officials
and the public. The cost estimate for these preparatory activities is provided in Attachment 4.
UNESCO is currently carrying out a study of existing classroom models, construction practices and costs
and will make recommendations for suitable standards and models for low-cost construction in
Mozambique. Once available, these recommendations will be taken into account in the CSP model.
CSP School
For the initial phase of the program the classroom design based on the LWF model will be used. This
model is closely resembling the PRONES and SRP models. The basic building unit is a 2-classroom block
with an office and storeroom between the classrooms. The advantages of the relatively short 2-classroom
block over longer three- and four-classroom blocks are i) the easy adaptation to the terrain, ii) better scale
within the village setting iii) reduction of noise transmission between classrooms and iv) easier to construct.
Plan variations comprising a 2 classroom block without office space as well as a 3-classroom block are
also available. The blocks can be arranged in clusters of two, three or more to make up the desired number
of classrooms for the school.
Design Data
The size of the proposed classroom is 55m2 for an optimum number of 48-50 pupils (I. 15m2/student). The
desk is 1200mm wide which allows, if necessary, 3 pupils per desk, expanding the seating capacity of the
classroom. VIP latrines will be provided on the basis of two for each classroom and each school will have
a water supply and one staff house for the school director



Annex 13
Page 4 of 9
Structural variations
The proposed model has four basic structural variations as well as additional variations based on climate
and soil conditions. In principle, all variations can be built by the community or by a contractor. The four
structural variations are:
i)   Timber structure comprising treated eucalyptus or indigenous timber poles with infill walls in soil-
cement.
ii)   Loadbearing soil-cement walls and piers
iii)  Concrete block structure and
iv)   Burnt clay brick structure
These variations correspond either to existing building traditions and available materials or potentlally
useful methods of construction. Bumt clay bricks are being used in the North and West of the country
(Niassa, Tete), concrete blocks are used in most other areas. Suitable timber poles are found in Manica and
Sofala and allow for rapid erection of structures. Soil-cement is not widely used in Mozambique but is
potentially the most practical and least expensive method of construction. Soil-ccment blocks are easily
made with hand-operated presses from material available on site and their manufacture requires little
special skills. More widespread application of soil-cement technology as a substitute for traditional "pau c
pique" would greatly improve the durability of comrnmunity built structures.
To minimize transport and labour cost, regional variations in construction method and materials would be
fully explored and allowed for in the adopted solutions. Generally the local method will be the least
expensive. However regional cost differences are unavoidable. Unfavorable swampy soil conditions like
those found in large parts of Sofala and Zambesia may require different, more expensive foundations.
Structural variations dependent on local conditions may lead to cost variations of up to US$2,000 per
classroom.
Climate control
In most parts of Mozambique some form of open structure is adequate and enclosure of classroom space
can be limited to security grilles and mosquito gauze. In certain parts of the country some formn of full
enclosure might be necessary. This can be done with glazed windows, louvres or shutters. Full enclosure
is expensive and will add about US$2,000 to the cost of a classroom. For instance, based on the LWF
model, adding shutters to a timber post and beam classroom increases the cost from US$7,903 to
US$10,532.
Labour enhanced construction
Enhancing the labour content of structures will reduce the cost of construction, generate local income,
enhance ownership and facilitate maintenance and expansion. NGOs routinely ask communities to produce
bricks or blocks as a community contribution. The CSP project will make equipment available to the
community to collect gravel and sand, produce concrete and/or soil-cement blocks and, where possible,
concrete or fibre-cement rooftiles. Equipment to saw rooftimbers or produce other timber components may
also be considered. On completion of the initial phase of the project, the equipment becomes the property
of the community who may use it for further expansion of the school and for income-generating activities.



Annex 13
Page 5 of 9
Director's house
The CSP program includes a 2-bedroom house, with living room, cooking porch and terrace, suitable as
Director's house. During appraisal it was agreed that staff accommodation provided by the project at each
primary school would be limited to one Director's house. Additional staff houses would be provided by
communities themselves.
Cost of construction
The base cost of a typical CSP 2-classroom block of 139m2 including an office and storeroom is estimated
at US$19,000 or around US$9,500 per classroom. Approximately 10% of the base cost is the value of
community labor, i.e. unskilled labor inputs like the collection of sand, gravel and water, the leveling of the
site and the making of blocks. By taking advantage of local materials and altemative construction
techniques, savings of US$1,000 per classroom might be obtained in certain areas. These savings will at
times be offset by additional transport or foundation costs in remote areas or in areas with difficult
foundation condition. Detailed cost information from the provinces will be available to reflect regional cost
differences once the school mapping exercise has been completed. To reflect the variance in cost, a blanket
location factor of 5% has been allowed. Assuming a small rural school comprising 4 classrooms, 2 offices,
sanitary facilities, water supply and one director's house, the cost of establishing one primary classroom
including fumiture, supervision and physical contingency is US$21,473 (Attachment 1, Table 1.2). The
equivalent cost of the current rural EPR program under IDA-Education II and the FINNIDA financed
PASE project is US$25,800* and US$43,950* respectively (*costs adjusted for reduction in staff houses).
Community Participation
Community participation does not mean that the community physically builds the school. Building work in
almost all societies is a specialized job requiring skill and experience and even in a rural "subsistence"
setting people will ask the "community" specialist to do the job. Community participation, within the CSP
framework, means that communities assume responsibility for the construction, the maintenance and the
management of the school. Under the proposed program communities will become the "developers" of the
school, while MINED and other donors become "Financiers" who provide funds to the community and
ensure that the schools are built according to an agreed design and standard.
The tasks of the community are to: i) apply to participate in the project and agree to conditions; ii) approve
the location, the scope of works, the design and the budget; iii) agree on the method of procurement, i.e.
direct labour, brigade or contractor; iv) organize community contributions in labour or cash; v) authorize
payments to contractors and suppliers; vi) take over the school on completion; and vii) maintain the
buildings in good condition.
The locus of community responsibility will be the School Council (Conselho Escolar) or LEC (Ligacao
Escola Communidade). The program will assist, where necessary with the formation of these bodies and
provide training and support before and during the construction phase. Where communities are weak or
not yet organized, the Director of the ZIP within whose area the construction is proposed, will be the
community representative. The District Administrator and the Chefe de Posto, who often represent the real
power and authority in the area will also be involved,



Annex 13
Page 6 of 9
In addition to its role as "developer" communities would also contribute financially or with labour to the
construction of the school. Communities would clear and level the site, collect sand, gravel and water and
make blocks. The value of these contributions would amount up to 10% of the construction cost. Within
the framework of CSP local modifications to the proposed models may be negotiated providingfor more
accommodation within a given budget.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION
Direct responsibility for the management and supervision would be with the Provincial Directors of
Education (DPE) through a contracted project coordinator (Architect/ Engineer) currently seconded to the
province by MINED/GEPE. The coordinator would be assisted by a deputy who would be full-time on
CSP. Non-technical provincial and district staff would also be involved in aspects of planning and
community mobilization.
Technical supervision
The success of CSP will depend to a large extent on technical supervision. Various earlier or existing rural
construction programs including PRONES by UNICEF have suffered through lack of regular field
supervision and control. Regular technical supervision of sites would be carried out by a construction
supervisor (CS) who will be based in the District. Initially the CS will supervise 5 sites but with increased
experience of builders and supervisors this maybe extended to 10 sites. During the first year of the
program the CS will be trained and supported by Senior Construction Advisors (SCA), one for each
province. These SCA's would probably need to be recruited outside the country. The CS's will supervise
and assist the community with the site preparation, collection of materials and blockmaking and supervise
the work of the building brigade or contractor. The CS will bc supervised by the coordinator or his deputy
who will certify progress payments. In Attachment 2 the cost of supervision per province has been
estimated at US$187,360 per annum or approximately 10% of the value of the works. This amount
includes the cost of SCA's which is essentially an investmcnt in training. For comparison, the fee paid by
MoH to consultants for supervising the construction of health posts in the central and northern provinces is
also about 10%.
Financial management
The procedures for controlling expenditure at community lcvcl will be similar to the "Operating Plan" of
the "Caixa Escolar" but will be adapted for school construction. The Caixa Escolar has been in existence
since 1989 and is used for the purchase of cducational materials by schools. The procedures will be
modified but would remain as close as possiblc to existing mcchanisms, but particular attention would be
given to the promptness of payments which is vitally important in a construction environment. Once
authorized, payments would be drawn from a provincial Special Account except in situations where a sub-
account at District level is possible. In Annex 5 is dcscribed the proposed financial management system.
Construction process
The PDE would announce the CSP for specific districts and distribute promotional material to
communities. Communities would apply for participation which would be appraised by a Committee,
representing PDE, the technical supervisory staff and the local authorities. All conditions for participation
and responsibilities would be agreed on. After approval, the project would be formally launched with a
ceremony and workshop. The communities would carry out agreed preparatory activities under the



Annex 13
Page 7 of 9
supervision of the CS. On completion of this task a local building brigade would be contracted to build one
classroom block with sanitary block and a well. During this first contract the brigade or contractor would
be closely supervised. On successful completion an additional classroom block would be added in the same
location or the brigade would be awarded another contract elsewhere in the district. The contracting parties
would be the brigade and the local community/school council.
There are different scenarios for the supply of materials other than local materials. The first option is to
contract a large supplier at provincial level to supply the needs of the schools in all the districts. Transport
and temporary storage in his regional depots would remain his responsibility. Some suppliers have
expressed interest in this scheme. Alternatively, the DPE develops its own capacity for transport and
storage (some provinces have this capacity) or an NGO is contracted to carry out this task. Lastly, and
probably the best option, is that the communities procure materials directly.
Organization of Community Schools Program
Diagran 1 (attached) shows the proposed organization of CSP.
Design & Management Studies
Once the project has commenced using (an) existing model(s) it will be necessary to carry out further
studies to improve the technical as well as managerial aspects of the CSP. Allowance is to be made in the
project budget for: i) the recruitment of suitable expertise in the area of facility design, engineering,
community mobilization, financial management, administration; ii) travel expenses; iii) the cost of printing
(and translating) manuals, forms and promotional materials.
IMPLEMENTATION
The implementation of CSP would begin slowly but reach an annual output of about 1,200 classrooms in
the 4th year. Output would expand as a result of the cascading effect of initial investment in training and
supervision. In the first year the program would start in three provinces covering in total about 15 districts
or 75 sites. Because construction is almost a seasonal activity in Mozambique and experience in the
community would initially be limited, the size of the projects would deliberately be kept small, involving in
most cases the addition of one 2-classroom block with ablutions and where necessary, water supply. Once
a community had successfully completed the initial task, additional classrooms and perhaps a Director's
house would be added on the same site during the next year. As set out in the table below approximately
4,300 CSP classrooms would be built in 5 years.
Annual proje ted outpu of CSP classrooms
Year                      1        2          3        4         5     Total
Provinces                3         5          5        6         6
Districts               15        40         40       50        50
Sites                   75       225       450       475       475
Sites x classrooms      75x2    150x2      325x2    350x2    350x2
75x4     125x4    125x4    125x4
Classrooms              150      600       1,150    1,200     1,200    4,300



Annex 13
Page 8 of 9
Phase 1
The first phase of CSP comprises about 1,900 classrooms, including sanitary facilities, administrative
spaces and water supply and a limited number of staff houses. This scope is defined as much by the
practical difficulties of implementing a new program as by the amount of funding likely to be available
from IDA. The duration of the first phase is 3 years. After 12 months an assessment would be made of
progress and success which would permit an early decision to expand the program during the 2nd vear or
otherwise. Training components within the program would take into account this possible expansion. The
estimated cost of the I st Phase would be about US$17 million (see Attachment 3).
Location of program
The first phase of the program would be implemented in 4 provinces based on enrollment indicators and
construction activities by other agencies. Preliminary selection would be Niassa, Cabo Delgado, Zambezia,
and Nampula.
STEPS TO BE TAKEN
Working Group and Task Force
Many of the principles and features of CSP will still need to be agreed on and further developed. This will
inter alia involve activities relating to:
I    Policy
*    State educational objectives and characteristics of effective schools.
*    State values and objectives of CSP within the framework of the Strategic Program and how these
relate to and compliment other educational activities.
*    Define community and community contribution.
*    Promote consensus and support of the program at central and provincial level.
*    Secure broad political acceptance.
2    Funding:
*    Regulatory issues pertinent to community/district or provincial control in procurement which may
affect implementation.
*    Conditions for participation by different funding agencies.
3    Capacity Building:
*    Capacity of MINED at provincial level with respect to financial and technical management,
procurement and administration of contracts.
4    Implementation
*    Finalize technical specification for schools.
*    Identify needs and priorities based on school mapping and enrollment indicators and finalize target
communities.



Annex 13
Page 9 of 9
*    Design detailed implementation plan.
*    Establish guidelines for community liaison and engagement.
*    Prepare manuals and procedures for financial management, procurement and supervision at central,
provincial and community level.
*    Organize training and training manuals.
*    State monitoring indicators.
The finalization of the Working Group on Access (and Gender) overseeing these activities and the
immediate establishment of a dedicated Sub-Group including consultants to carry out specialized parts of
the work is required. Funds for preparation activities prior to Program Effectiveness will need to be
sourced. Preparation costs are estimated at US$288,800 (see Attachment 4).
Institutional Capacity
Attachment 5 sets out the Institutional Capacity of MINED to implement the CSP sub-component. Somc
primary schools and all secondary and tertiary facilities will continue to be implemented by MINED
through the established mode of procurement.
PART 2 - SECONDARY AND TERTIARY FACILITIES
The expansion of lower secondary (ESG I) and upper secondary (ESG2) schools, teacher training institutes
(IMAP) and other capital intensive works will continue to be implemented by MINED through the
established mode of procurement. The design of some of the buildings have been modified following
concems of cost and/or of capacity. The revised schedules of accommodation and cost estimates arc shown
in Attachment 1, Table 1.3 to 1.7.
Available designs and contract documentation allow for immediate implementation of this
subcomponent.



MINED - ACCESS WG
Construction Sub-Group:
DSP - National Coordinator
Material Supplier     Contract              DPE                Contract.  Supervising Architect
Provincial Manager                  Provincial Coordinator                  Consultant or NGO
Local Depot                             District 
Local Manager                         Administrator                     Construction Supervisor
DDE Planning Officer
Community
___________  Chefe de Posto
School Council
4 Contract
1Building brigade     1
Building materials     +                      or                +          Regular Supervision
Contractor         j
School
ESSP - ORGANIZATION OF COMMUNITY SCHOOLS PROGRAMME                                                 -



Annex 13
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 6
Estimated Cost of Construction by Facility; Table 1.1 - 1.7
Table 1.1: Rural Primary School (EPR)
Ref   Description                       Area (m2)   Cost/m2       Cost US$
1     4 Classrooms and administration        310         180         55,800
2      1 Director's house                      60        225         13.500
3     2 Teacher's houses                       50        225         11,250
4     5 latrines                               25        160          4,000
5     1 Borehole and handpump                                         5,000
Net Construction Cost                  445                    89,550
Cost/m2:                               201
Location factor (0-25%)                                        11,194
Supervision (bv GEPE)                                          3,000
Furniture                                                      12,000
Total incl. fees and equipment:                              115,744
Cost per student:                      579
Cost per class room                 28,936
Physical Contingency (10%)                                     11,574
Overall Cost                                                 127,318
Note:
Table 1.2: Rural Community School (CSP) 200 pupils
Ref   Description                       Area (m2)   Cost/m2       Cost US$
4 classrooms incl administration       278        140          38,920
2x4latrines                             32        200           6,400
Director's house                        64        140           8,960
Staff ablution block                     8        200           1,600
Borehole/well with handpump              1      3,500           3,500
Net Construction Cost                  383                    59,380
Cost/m2:                               155
Location factor (0-10%)                                         2,969
Supervision (10%)                                              5,938
Furniture                                                       6,400
Contingency (15%)                                              11,203
Total Cost                                                    85,890
Cost per student:                      429
Cost per class room                 21,473
Cost and areas based on LWF
Mozambique Program.



Annex 13
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 6
Table 1.3: Rural Secondary School ESG (600 pupils)
Ref   Description                     Area (m2)   Costlm2       Cost US$
1     12 classrooms & 3 special class.    1,050       225        236,250
2     Administration & Library              210        250         52,500
3     Canteen                                25        300          7,500
4     Ablutions incl storage tank           200        350         70,000
5     Walkways & canopies                   500        125         62,500
6     Caretaker                              30        300          9,000
7     Directors house (lx80m2)               80        300         24,000
8     Staff houses (4x60m2)                 240        300         72,000
9     Field & hard-courts                                          50,000
10    Site works (15%)                                            80,063
Construction cost                   2,335                  663,813
Cost/m2:                              284
Location factor (0-20%)                                     66,381
Fumiture (15%)                                              99,572
Site layout & Supervision (10%)                             66,381
Total incl. fees and equipment:                            896,147
Cost per student:                     896
Cost per class room                59,743
Physical Contingency (10%)                                  89,615
Note:
*     Buildings are single story
throughout
*     Pupils per classroom = 50.



Annex 13
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 6
Table 1.4: Boarding Facilities ESG (200 students)
Ref   Description                      Area (m2)   Cost/m2       Cost US$
I     Dormitories (10 x20 beds)             600        225         135,000
2     Ablutions                              120       350          42,000
3     Trunks and general storage              40       200           8,000
4     Recreation area                        100       225          22,500
5     Flat for supervisors                    70       350          24,500
6     Study room (2xO00 stud. x 1.5m2)       300       225          67,500
7     Dining (Ix100 stud. xlm2)              100       225         22,500
8     Kitchen and stores                      60       300          18,000
9     Laundry                                 50       200          10,000
10    Staff change rooms (2xl5m2)            30        350          10,500
11    Walkways & canopies(30%)              441        125         55,125
12    Subtotal Construction                1,911                  415,625
13    Site works (15%)                                             62,344
14    Nett Construction say                                       477,969
Net Cost/m2:                        2,50.1
Location factor (0-20%)                                      47,797
Fees (12%)                                                   63,092
Furniture & equipment (15%)                                  71,695
Total incl. fees and equipment:                             660,553
say
Cost per student:                  3,302.8
M2/student                            9.6
15    Physical Contingency (10%)                                   66,055
Note
Study rooms for all students.
Capacitv of dining room for 50%
of students



A-nnex 13
Attachurient 1
Page 4 of 6
Table 1.5: Pre-University School -EPU
Ref   Description                       Area (m2)   Cost/m2       Cost US$
1     18 classrooms & 3 prep rooms          1,570       250         392,500
2     3 Laboratories, computer room           660        300        198,000
3     Library                                 200        250         50,000
4     Administration                          312        250         78,000
5     Student ablutions                       270        350         94,500
6     Staff ablutions                         100        350         35,000
7     Circulation (30%)                     1,000        225        225,000
8     Covered walkways                        600        100         60,000
9     Gymnasium                               400        300        120,000
10    Workshops                              200        250          50,000
11    Caretaker                               30        250           7,500
12    10 Staffhouses                         600        350         210,000
12    Site works (15%)                                              228,075
13    Sports facilities                                             250,000
Net Construction say                 5,942                  1,998,575
Net Costlm2:                           336
Fees Supervision (5%)                                         99,929
Fumiture & equipment (18%)                                   359,744
Total incl. fees and equipment:                             2,458,247
say
Gross Cost/m2:                         414
Cost per classroom:                117,059
Contingency (10%)                                            245,825



Annex 13
Attachment 1
Page 5 of 6
Table 1.6: Boarding Facilities EPU (300 students)
Ref   Description                      Area (m2)   Cost/m2       Cost US$
1     Dormitories (300 students)            900        250        225,000
2     Ablutions                              150       350          52,500
3     Trunks & general storage                45       200           9,000
4     Laundry                                100       250          25,000
5     Study rooms (2x50 students)            180       250          45,000
6     Recreation area                        150       250          37,500
7     Dining room (300 students)            300        300          90,000
8     Kitchen, stores, staff change rooms    150       350          52,500
Circulation and structure (30%)       593        250        148,125
Subtotal buildings                  2,568                   684,625
Site works (15%)                                            102,694
Nett Construction cost                                      787,319
Cost/m2                               307
Fees (12%)                                                   94,478
Furniture (18%)                                             141,717
Total incl fees and furniture                             1,023,514
Cost per student                    3,412



Annex 13
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 6
Table 1.7: Primary Teachers Training College: 210 students (140 resident)
Ref   Description                      Area (m2)   Costlm2        Cost US$
I     Teaching areas including special     1,103        225        248,175
classrooms, library, laboratories
and student ablutions
2     Administration areas                   135        225         30,375
3     Gymnasium                              381        300        114,300
4     Dining, kitchen, laundry. etc          665        300         199,500
5     Student dorms (140p) incl.             878        275        241,450
ablutions
6     Medical Centre                          68        275         18,700
7     Distance Education Resource            206        225         46,350
Centre
8     Walkways and canopies                2,000         75        150,000
9     Outdoor Sports facilities                                 250,000.00
10    Staffhousing (15 units)              1,033        325        335,725
11    Site development (20%)                                       326,915
Construction Cost                    6,469                 1,961,490
Cost/m2:                              303
Supervision (10%)                                            196,149
Fumiture & Equipment                                         294,224
Total incl. fees & equip.                                  2,451,863
Cost per student:                    5,838
Cost per class room                   N/A
Note:
Single story construction
throughout.
Areas based on proposed IMAP's
for Cabo Delgado and Inhambane



Annex 13
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 1
ESSP - Supervision Cost per Province
A - ANNUAL OPERATING COST:
Salaries local consultants                Qty              Salary   Months          Total
Provincial coordinator                    1                 1,500        12        18,000
Assistant coordinator                     1                   750        12         9,000
Bookkeeper                                1                   400        12         4,800
Construction supervisor                   8                   300        12        28,800
60,600
Travel/per diems/other                    Qty       Cost/month    Months            Total
4x4 pick-up                               1                 1.000        12        12,000
Motorcycles                               8                   100        12         9,600
Office operating cost                     1                 1,000        12        12,000
PD: Coordinator I0days/month              1                   400        12         4,800
PD Assistant; 15 days/month               1                   600        12         7,200
Warehouse/security                        8                   500        12        48,000
93,600
SUBTOTAL OPERATING COST                                                           154,200
B - INVESTMENT (lst year only)
VEHICLES                                  Qty       Cost
4X4 Pick-up                               2                30,000                  60,000
Motorcycles 125cc                         8                 3,000                  24,000
84,000
EQUIPMENT
Computers                                 1                 3,500                   3,500
Other equipment (survey etc)              1                 1,500                   1,500
Supervisors equipment                     8                   300                   2,400
TRAINING
Qty         Cost/month   Months           Total
Senior construction supervisors           1                 4,200 12               50,400
Per diem: 20 days/month                   1                 1,000 12               12,000
Vehicle operating cost                    1                 1,000 12               12,000
74,400
SUBTOTAL INVESTMENT                                                               165,800
TOTAL SUPERVISION COST:
Annual operating cost plus 1/5th of                                               187,360
investment in equipment and training
Annual value of classrooms (inc! staffhouse    100         18,592               1,859,200
and wells) say:
Supervision cost as % of construction cost:                                 10



Annex 13
Attachment 3
Page 1 of I
Construction Cost Estimate
DOUBLE CLASSROOM WITH OFFICE BLOCK
Unit cost        Qty          Cost
Gross area: m2                                        139
MATERIALS                                           9,000          500      4,500,000
LABOUR                                              4,800          500      2,400,000
EQUIPMENT                                            1,250         500       625,000
TRANSPORT                                           4,000          500      2,000,000
BASE COST                                          19,050          500      9,525,000
PRICE CONT. 15%                                     2,858          500      1,428,750
FURNITURE                                           3,395          500      1,697,500
TOTAL COST                                         25,303          500     12,651,250
2-LATRINE BLOCK
MATERIALS                                             700        1,000       700,000
LABOUR                                                480        1,000       480,000
EQUIPMENT                                              80        1,000        80,000
TRANSPORT                                             340        1,000       340,000
BASE COST                                           1,600        1,000      1,600,000
PRICE CONT. 15%                                       240        1,000       240,000
TOTAL COST                                           1,840       1,000      1,840,000
2-BEDROOM STAFFHOUSE
Gross area: m2
MATERIALS                                           5,000         200       1,000,000
LABOUR                                              1,400          200       280,000
EQUIPMENT                                               0         200              0
TRANSPORT                                           1,000          200       200,000
BASE COST                                           7,400          200      1,480,000
PRICE CONT. 15%                                     1,110          200       222,000
FURNITURE                                               0         200              0
TOTAL COST                                          8,510          200      1,702,000
STAFFHOUSE ABLUTION BLOCK
Item:                                               1,500         400        600,000
BOREHOLE/WELL WITH HANDPUMP
Item:                                               3,500         200        700,000
TOTAL PROJECT - PHASE 1                                                    17,493,250



Annex 13
Attachment 4
Page I of I
CSP Preparation Cost
Task Force -Project Preparation
Consultants                                       MM       Rate      Cost
Team leader/Arch                                     6
Engineer                                             I
Financial management                                 I
specialist
Community liaison (UNICEF                            I
or WFP0)
9    9,000   81,000
Travel                                             Qty      Rate     Cost
Flights: 4 Persons visiting 5                        4     1,000    4,000
provinces
Per diem:                                           40       80    3,200
Flights: 4 persons visiting                          4      700    2,800
Malawi & Zambia
Per diem                                            32       150    4,800
14,800
Equipment
Testing equipment/ materials                                        8,000
/expenses
PRINTING
Implementation manuals:                          1,000       75   75,000
TRAINING                                          Days
Construction supervisors: (2                        40    2,000   80,000
groups of 20)
Province, District & ZIPS (5                        10    3,000   30,000
groups of 30-40)
110,000
TOTAL PREPARATION                                                 288,800



Institutional Capacity of MINED
Area of Capacity                       Capacity Gaps Identified               Ca acitv Building Measures Taken/Agreed
1.0 MINED - CONSTRUCTION &
EQUIPMENT SUB-GROUP
1.1 Organizational setting:          The composition of the group will vary but will be  The group has not yet becn formally constituted.
This is a sub-group of the Working   made up of at least one National Director pertaining to  Appointment of Consultants to prepare
Group on "Access & Gender" who will,  the area of activity and other specialists within the  Community School program (CSP) urgently
inter alia, provide guidelines for models   Ministry. External consultants may join the group for  required. GEPE to pursue use of funds of
of "low cost" school construction and  specific tasks.                                 Capacity Building Project prior to ESSP
involvement of NGOs and communities                                                   effectiveness.
1.2 Human Resources                  No additional staffing will bc required.
2.0 MINED - DAF
2.1 Human Resources                  Existing staff has not been involved in the management T ransfer of GEPE staff to DAF has been
of Special Account(s) and donor contributions to  suggested Alternatively, GEPE will continue to
school construction. These activities have been carried manage Special Account for time being and
out by GEPE in previous projects.               transfer funds to DAF at central and provincial
level. This item to be pursued under Financial
Management proposals
3.0 MINED - GEPE
3.1 Organizational setting           GEPE has the experience and will remain responsible
for the management of construction projects, including
procurement of construction related goods and
services.
3.2 Leadership & Management          Existing management lacks experience with         It was agreed that Technical Assistance would be
community based construction projects            required for one yar to assist GEPE in the
management of community based projects and
training of central and province-based staff
3.3 Human Resources                  The Community Schools Project (CSP) requires a    One of the existing Sub-Program Coordinators
dedicated CSP Progran Coordinator. CAD capability  who has been working with the rural school
needs to be developed.                           project (EPR) has been proposcd for this position.
.______________________________ _________________________________________   GEPE staff to be trained on CAD.
3.4 Material Resources               Generally adequate:                                                                                >
> - -



Area of Capacity             Capacity Gaps Identified                              Capacity Building Measures Taken/Agreed
3.5 Practices                Procurement and management of (smaller) works and     See draft TOR Community Participation Works
services to be decentralized                         "Functions and Responsibilities of MINED centre.
4.0 Provincial Department of
Education (DPE)
4.1 Organizational setting   Adequate                                              __.
4.2 Leadership & Management  The resident GEPE Architect/ Engineer in each province will A Provincial Coordinator will need to be recruited in
be the Provincial Coordinator. Expertise in Community  Manica Province. All other provinces have
liaison/development is lacking. Existing DAF will need to be  coordinators.
strengthened to deal with CSP financial management
4.3 Human Resources          a) Deputy Coordinator                                 a) To be recruited
b) Financial controller/bookkeeper                   b) To be recruited
c) Community Development Officer                     c) To be recruited or existing DPE staff to be
d) Senior Construction Supervisor (advisor)             trained.
e) Construction Supervisors(CS): about 5 CS's per    d) To be recruited
________________   _   ___________  province, each to be based in a district   e) To be recruited
Area of Capacity             Capacity Gaps Identified                              Capacity Building Measures Taken/Agreed
4.4 Material Resources       Computer /e-mail /fax facility in each province.      To be procured,
One set of survey instruments and basic soil/materials testing
equipment.
Vehicle for Deputy Coordinator and Senior Construction
supervisor
Motorcycles for Construction Supervisor (5-8)
4.5 Practices                Increased responsibilities for Conimunity mobilization,  See draft TOR Community Participation Works
financial management of projects and procurement of goods  "Functions and Responsibilities of Provincial
and services.                                        Education Offices". To be further developed by
Construction Sub-Group.
Attachments:
Diagram I            ESSP - Organization of Community Schools Program
Attachment I         Estimated Cost of Construction by Facility; Table 1. I - 1 .7
Attachment 2         ESSP - Supervision Cost per Province                                                                         7 
Attachment 3         CSP - Cost estimate of Phase I (ESSP)                                                                       o 
Attachment 4         CSP Preparation Cost
Attachment 5         Institutional Capacity of MINED



Annex 14
Page I of 9
Republic Of Mozambique
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND FINANCE
NaIL! /GM/MPF/99
Maputo, January f- 1999
Educatioin Sector Development Program
Letter of Sector Policy
Mr. Callisto Madavo
Vice President
Africa Region
The World Bank
181 8H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Dear Mr Madavo:
This is in reference to the current discussions about the World Bank's participation in financing part
of the Government's Strategic Plan in the context of an Education Sector Development Program.
The purpose of this letter is to set out briefly our government's rationale and objectives of the plan, to
set out the key issues in the sector and the measures the government intends to take, along with its
partners, to address these issues, and to convey governments commitments to specific sector policies,
and allocation and use of resources, that we consider essential for the successful implementation of
the plan and sustained development of the education sector.
Government Strategy
In response to the need for increased investment in human resources to support continued growth of
the economy and the expectations of Mozambicans citizens for greater educational opportunities,
the Strategic Plan aims at expanding access and equity, especially at primary and lower secondary
levels, improving the internal efficiency and improving the quality of education. The analysis of
issues in the sector also suggests that there is a need to improve the operational efficiency of the
system through restructuring of the management system, improvement of the human resources,
revision of current processes and procedures, towards increased decentralization. This would
involve decentralization of the management to the provinces, districts, municipalities, communities
and schools, that are closest to the point of use, along with transparent monitoring and
accountability arrangements to encourage efficient use of resources.



Annex 14
Page 2 of 9
The sector strategy was developed with some participation of provincial and district authorities,
intemational partners, teachers, comununities and various sectors of the civil society at large. In
developing the strategy we recognized that priority should be given to basic gencral education as the
basis for providing the mninimum educational skills to function in modem society, to add some value
for further education and training and to promote better population health and nutrition practices.
However, the government also recognizes that, while basic education is the highest priority of
education, there is an urgent need to gradually develop a strong secondary education system, to
provide candidates for much needed higher education and technical skills. We are also working on
developing appropriate complementary policies for the development of technical education and
higher education.
The program therefore aims at (a) improving the quality of education tlrough (i) upgrading teachers
by further developing the in-service distance education project and by expanding the pre-service
teacher training facilities; (ii) improving and expanding pedagogical support for teachers, and the
enhancement of teaching and learning environment; (iii) revising the curriculum with simultaneous
modifications in assessment to better monitoring student progress towards accomplishing learning
goals, and reflect regional settings and needs; (iv) increasing the provision of quality textbooks and
learning materials for primary and secondary students; and (v) improving the national assessment
and examnination system along with the curriculum revision; (b) increasing access to cducation
through (i) increasing the number of classrooms in the most undeserved areas; (ii) the development
of a strategy for maintenance of education assets; (iii) promotion of girls' education, (iv) the
establishment of a non-formal pilot education initiative; (v) encouragement of non-public provision
of education; (vi) establishment of a student welfare program, and (vii) improvement of special
education; and (c) strengthening the institutional capacity of the MOE through streamlining
functions and increasing capacity and decentralization of management of resources to the province,
district, local and school levels.
To achieve this objective the government is committed to further increase the share of public
expenditures allocated to education. In addition to the increase from less than 10 percent in 1994 to
17.3 percent in 1997 which has made education sector that commands the largest share of GOM's
recurrent expenditure, the share will be further increased to 18.2 percent in 1998. This will result
partly for the proposed salary increase for civil servants, including teachers in 1997. Specific
measures will also be introduced to further mobilize community resources anid increase efficiency in
the use of resources.
The specific sector measures we intend to take are summarized in the attached matrix, which is part
of this letter. I hope that these details will help to clarify the main directions of our education effort.
We will, of course, be willing to provide you with any further information you may require.
Yours sincerely,
Tomaz Augusto S F         ga   -
Minister of P    n      iae



Republic of Mozambi gin
Education Sector Develoment Program
Policy Matrix
Policy Objective                  Current Status                     Proposed Action                   | Rkesponsibility and Timing
I                                  I                         .TI
1. Improving the Qulity of education
1.1 To upgrade the quaky of teachers  Nearly a quarter of all teachers in EP I  - Establish    5  new    Teacher  - The MOE Directorates responsible
to meet the minimum requirements  are  untrained,  and  unqualified.  Training - - Institutes for Basic  for primary and secondary education,
for teaching inEPl (grades I to 5)  Another 40 percent have only six  Education  (IMAPs)   in  Maputo  and LP will be responsible for the
years of schooling and one year of province, Nampula, and Tete (year 1);  various components related to teacher
professional   training.   Lirnited  Cabo Delgado and Inhambane (year  training.
capacity  for  pre-service  teacher  3) to train 1400 new primary school
training presents a serious obstacle to  teachers annually  in  1+1 teacher
mcreasing the number of teachers,  training  programs  for grade  10
and  opportunities  for  in-service  graduates
training are limited
- Establish I in-service Teacher
Training Institute (LAP) for grade 7
graduates
- Improve the design and increase the
production of pre- and in-service
teacher learning materials
- Upgrade the training of 15 lAP
technicians and about 1060 teacher
trainers
- provide in-service training for
15,000 (6,000 female) teachers with 3
years of training following 7th grade
by year 2001
CD;
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Policy Objective                  Current Status                     Proposed Action                     Responsibility and Timing
-Train 250 trainers in micro-teaching
techniques to staff about 14 new
CFPP and IMAP training units
- Train 6,000 (1200 female),  "D"
level (graduates of 10th grade + 2)
teachers, in pedagogy and school
management by year 2001
-Training of 500 trainers for basic
education
- upgrade the pedagogical skills of
2000 secondary teachers
- Periodic in-service training both in
classroom    training  and distance
education learning for 20% of EP
teachers (10% women), 50% of ESG
(30% women)and 100% of VTET.
-  Training  of  12  pedagogical
specialist and 39 trainers, and 80
teachers in Maputo province (50%
women) in group dynamics, games,
drama, and other teaching methods
1.2 To improve pedagogical support Teachers especially in remote areas  -Thre pedagogical zones will be re-  Directorates   of   prinary   and
to teachers and teacbing and learning  receive little pedagogical or material habilitated and associated with district  secondary education, and the school
environment                       support from educational supervisors. teacher resource centers         inspectorate division in collaboration
The pedagogical zones (ZIPs - Zonas                                   with LAP and INDE
de Influencia Pedag6gica) do not -  The   ZIPs   will  encourage
function effectively, because they are  development of teaching materials
starved of materials.              and will receive training materials for
use in teacher study groups.
- The  school supervision  and  _       _      _      _      _
O j
o z



Policy Objective                  Current Status                     Proposed Action                     Responsibility and Timing
inspection services will be expanded
to support the work of school heads
and ZIPs
1.3  To revise the  crricuilum  to  The current cuniculumn is ill adapted  -The curriculum will be revised to be  INDE and the primary and secondary
further facilitate leaminj and anchor  to the various grades of the education  more consistent with clear learning  education directorates
it  more  on  the  iocio-cultural  systern, is not clearly related to  goals and assessment system, and
environment of the coulty         student   learning    goals   and  reflect more of the socio-cultural
assessment, lacks enough content on  environment and to include more
health and environmental education,  content on environmental and health
and  is taught in a second language  education. It will also be presented in
from grade one,  all of which and  "cycles  of  learning"  combining
impede learning.                   grades and the mother tongue wiDl be
used in grades ] and 2
1.4  To improve the quality and  Textbooks, like the curriculum  and  -Textbooks will be revised in line  INDE  in  collaboration  with  the
relevance   of   tembooks   and  assessment system do not adequately  with  the  changes  in  the  new  primary  and  secondary  education
educational materials             reflect the socio-cultural environment  curriculum                     directorates.
and are not broad enough to
accommodate future needs.
1.5 To establish a sysirm for regular  The current system for provision of -The  textbooks  development and  The  secretary-general,   and
and adequate supply of textbooks in  textbooks  is  to  centralized  and  production system will be gradually  Directorates   of   Primary   and
schools                           dependent on  the public  system, privatized and made more efficient to  Secondary Education, and provincial
which can ill affotd to fully finance  reduce the cost of books.       and district offices
adequate provision of books
- A buffer fund would also be
established to assist students who
cannot afford to buy books
- School libraries will also be
established to encourage the reading
habit
1.6  To improve the testing and  The current system is over-burdened  - Instructional and testing practices  INDE,  the  school  Inspectorate
examinations  system  to  support  with examninafions at every level,  will be revised  in an  integrated  Division of MOE, and the Primary
leaming, and certify, achievement at which encourage repetition and rent-  approach  with    curriculum   and     Secondary       Education
the end of the various cycles, and to  seeking behavior on the pait of development, and to make them more  Directorates.
CD



Policy Objective                  Current Status                     Proposed Action                     Responsibility and Timiog
develop  an  assessmeat  system  teachers.   Tests are also neither  appropriate for identifying learning
consistent with the curricalum and to  consistent  with  curriculum   nor  weaklesses
monitor the quality of thE education  oriented to clear learning goals
system                                                                - Information from this new approach
will be systematically collected and
disseminated to teachers and parents
for use in taking remedial action
- An educational assessment system
for Mozambique will be gradually
developed along with curriculum
revision and student leaming goals
2. Increasing Access to Iducation
2.1   To increase the number of The  enrollment rate  in  primary  - GOM is encouraging the use of low-  The school construction unit of the
prirary and low secondary school education was severely affected by  cost but durable construction methods  MOE, using  the experience  and
places, including water supply and  the war during which 70 percent of to increase efficiency in the use of resources of GEPE which will be
teacher houses, especially in rural schools were destroyed or closed.  funds.                            phased out.
areas                             GOM  faces serious constraints in
financing the replacement of all these  - Classroorns will be added to existing  District Education Offices which will
schools and is seeking partnership  5 grades schools to complete 7 - year  be taking on greater responsibilities
with  local   stakeholders   and  primary school cycle                under the de-centralization move.
international coramunity
- A more systematic effort will be
made  to   mobilize   community
resources to match GOM fnancing in
school construction
- NGO and international partners will
be encouraged to use low cost
methods
2.2 To rehabilitate basic schools and  A large number of existing schools  - A school - community based  re-  The school construction unit of MOE
setup a school maintenance system  are in disrepair either as a result of the  habilitaion and maintenance system  and district offices
war or because of used materials and  will be  developed  and  financed
the limited technical capabilities of through community and public funds
communities which built them                                                                                                a r
._  ..                 . _    _ _    _    _ .  .                                                         o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\



Policy Objective                     Current Status                         Proposed Action                        Responsibility and Timing
2.3  To encourage school attendance  There are a number of students who  - A schlool feeding program will be  The Directorate of Primary education
by students from poor amiLies who  stay away from school because they  maintained to improve the nutrition of
may stay away from school because  need to help the famnily, or in some  students  and  to  encourage  poor
of lack of adequate food supplies    cases, are too weak to walk  long  families to send their children  to
distances   to   go   to   school.  school
Malnourished children also lack
concentration and are unable to
perform adequately in school
2.4 To increase enrolhlnt of girls in  Girls are severely disadvantaged with  - A  program   of mobilizing  and  Gender   Unit,   MOE,   District
primary  and  seconkry  schools,  regard to access and achievement.  monitoring  school attendance  and  Education Offices, communities and
especially in remote areas           This is especially so in the rural areas   achlevemenit will be established  famuihes
2e5  To eanl orage  nriate provision  The government cannot provide all  - A  scheme to provide grants to
Di udtlGatiMu                        Vil3te needer Schoiotl places hecave  'f mmif Pies fo:  i -ing tC,r  awi;
limited fund, but the current policy  schools will be tested
mame  work  does  not  facilitate
provisionl    of    education    bv  -The   policy   regarding   private
communities or the private sector     provision of education wvill be revised
to establish a more supportive climate
__.____            __________  _______________________________        for   thi   siii~ose  -~___________ _L            __
3. Strengthen the Inotitutional Capacity of the Ministry of Education
3,1     To  improve  the  policy  Currently  the  capacity  for policy  - An executive Secretariat created in  The secretary-general, the Planning
formulation,    monitoring      and  fonnulation and implementation is      the MOE   in the context of ESSP   Unit, and all Directorates of MOE.
dissemination capacity of MOE         limited to a few central units. This  implementation will work with all the
needs to be spread more widely to  directorates to analyze policy issues,
ensure  that all units are actively  monitor and evaluate the education
involved in the process if quality  programr,  and  track   educational
expansion is to occur successfully    research in the country
- Information and communication
campaigns,    including      regular
stakeholder consultations on goals
and    progress    of   educational                                                           '0
development will be encouraged                                                                mCD
tt                                                                                                                                     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 v~



Policy Objective                 Current Status                      Proposed Action                    Responsibility and Timing
-  Preparation  of  strategies  for
vocational and technical education
and higher education will be carried
out over the next year
3.2 To improve sector management   MOE's institutional capacity  to  - The central decision-making system
and human resources dewlopment    respond effectively to the crucial  will be streamlined towards greater
education  problems needs to  be  decentralization to the provinces and
enhanced and  local participation in  districts
the management of schools increased.
There is urgent need to improve the  - Develop management capacity in
institutional capacity of the education  centraL provincial and district offices
sector at the various levels, in terms
of policy-making,  planning  and  -   Develop   a   capacity  for
monitoring                         implementation of sector programs
within the MOE
- Increase school autonomy and
establish mechanisms to increase
community  participation      in
school governance
- Review teacher needs and
training policy, grade structures,
salary and benefits, and promotion
criteria
- Review central, provincial and
district   management        and
administrative   needs,  staffing
policy, grade structures, salary
and benefits, and promotion
criteria
.                                                                                                                ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o .                           .                                           .  .                        oon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



Policy Objective              Current Status                         Proposed Action                        Responsibility and Timing
- Ensure that timely payment of salaries
of teachers and other MOE staff.
- Develop and implement a management
training program which encourage more
women in management positions.
4. To Ensure adequate financing of the education sector and efficient use of resources
4.1 To increase resources in    The education sector is currently under-   - The share of the govemment budget will MOE and Ministry of
the sector.                   financed and the government will be   increase from 18.2 percent in 1998 to 21   Planning and finance.
unable to bear the full costs although it is  percent in 2003 (from 3.5% to about 5.0%
possible to increase allocation of     of the GDP) and in line with GOM policy
resources from the government budget.   the share of basic education in the budget
At the same time there is scope for    will also be increased up to 2% of the
increased mobilization of community    GNP in the same period.
resources but this has not been adequately
tapped.
4.2 To increase efficiency in    The internal efficiency is low, especially   - The dropout rate will be reduced from  National Directorates of
the use of resources in the   as a result of high dropout and repetition   9% in 1998 to 4.5% in 2003.      Primary and Secondary
sector.                       rates. Also, there are evidence of low                                        education with the Province
value added of the education system.   - The repetition rate will be reduced from   Directorates; monitoring by
25% in 1998 to 12.5% in 2003.          Directorate of Planning.
4.3 To better monitor the use    The monitoring system and the econonic  - A financial management system will be   Finance Directorate.
and effectiveness of resources   efficiency of expenditure in education are  created jointly with international partners
in the sector.                weak.                                  in 1998 and a strategy for sector
expenditure management will be
.______________ ______________ ._______________.________.  im plem ented.                     _     _._.
0 _
%0 



Annex 15
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Environmental Data Sheet for Projects
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
COUNTRY: Republic of Mozambique                                    PROJECT ID:MZ-PE-1786
PROJECT: Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
APPRAISAL DATE: June 22. 1998                                      IBRD AMOUNT ($m):
BOARD DATE: February 18, 1999                                      IDAAMOUNT  ($71 million)
MANAGING UNIT: AFC02                                               SECTOR: Education
LENDING INSTRUMENTS: Sector Investmnent Program Credit             STATUS: FY99
ESTIMATED DATE OF RECEIPT OF EA BY BANK (Category A Projects):   N/A
EA CATEGORY: C                                                     DATE ASSIGNED:
DATE DATA SHEET PREPARED/UPDATED: Prepared 03/10/97; Updated 11/07/98
MAJOR PROJECT COMPONENTS:
(i) Quality of education, including teacher training and support, curriculum revision, including environmental and health
education, learning materials supplv assessment and examinations strengthening, and direct support to schools. (ii) Access to
education, including school construction and rehabilitation, initiatives to promote girls' education. nonformal education,
special education, and support for nonpublic provision of education. (iii) Institutional capacity-building at the Ministry of
Education, including organizational restructuring and support for decentralization, policy and planning, and financial
management.
MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES [identified or suspected in project]:
None, ESSP will be nationwide with emphasis on rural areas. School construction will take place in rural areas and water. soil.
sand and other local materials will be needed for the construction. Sanitation facilities will be built at a number of schools
mininizing any health or environmental hazards that may arise in areas that lack of these facilities. Boreholes will be provided
for a number of existing schools without access to water and for all new schools.
OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES [of lesser scope associated with project]: None.
PROPOSED ACTIONS [to mitigate environmental issues described aboveJ]
Proposed school construction models and designs will take into account environmental issues.
JUSTIFICATION/RATIONALE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY [Give reasons for environmental category selected
and explanation of any changes from initial classification]: N/A.
REPORTING SCHEDULE:
Category A: environmental assessment: start-up date, date for first draft, and current status.
Category B: is there a separate environmental analysis? ifyes, when is it due?
N/A
REMARKS [Give status of any other environmental studies, list local groups and local NGOs consulted and where category A
environmental assessments were made public locatly, state whether borrower has given permission to release EA, etc.]:
N/A.
Signature                                              Signature
and Date:                                              SiCg and Date:
Sector Manager - AFTil                                 Teer - ENV
Initials                                               Initials
and Date:  , . 7(                   ~                  and Date:
Team Leader's Initials                                 TS-ENV Contact



Annex 16
Page 1 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
Teacher Training
Primary School Teachers (Gr. 1-5): The professional qualifications of primary school teachers
are highly diversified because of the variety of training models used to confront an acute shortage
of teachers. During the pre-independence period most teachers attended the EHPP teacher
training colleges composed of 4 years of primary school and 4 years of pre-service training, but
only about 3%o of the teachers remains with those qualifications. After Independence, the existing
teacher training institutes - Curso de Formacao deProfessores Primarios (CFPP) - formed the
basis for training primary school teachers, graduating about 950 teacis every year since the mid
1990s. The CFPP has taken various forms from a 1 year program to a 3 year program with a 6th
and 7th grade exam as entry requirement, respectively. Today the CFPPs are only offering the
7+3 years program. In 1997 a new teacher training program IMAP (Institutos de Magisterio
Primanio) was initiated. The program is intended to hire 10th grade graduates and provide two
years of training. Other teacher training is provided through the ADPP teacher training colleges
offering a 2 1/2 years program. In 1997 the qualifications of primary school teachers (about
29,000 teachers) were distributed as follows:
EHPP (4+4):      4%
CFPP (6+1):     39%
CFPP (7+3):     28%
ADPP (10+2 1/2): 1%
IMAP: (10+2):    1%
Untrained:      27%
Table 1 below shows the distribution of teachers by province in 1996.
Table 1:   Qualified and Untrained Teachers and Student/Teacher Ratio
by Province (1996)
Province       Total Teacher    Untrained     % Untrained    Student/Teacher
Ratio
Cabo Delgado           2,193           673           30.7 %             47.2
Gaza                   2,036           756           37.1 %             80.0
Inhambane              2,170           641           29.5 %             65.5
Manica                 1,502           340           22.6 %             54.5
Maputo Province        1,630           747           45.8 %             80.7
Nampula                5,110           1173          22.9 %             47.8
Niassa                 1,300           429           33.0 %             48.6
Sofala                 1,827           222           12.2 %             51.6
Tete                   2,280           718           31.5 %             51.2
Zambezia               4,768           1307          27.4 %             66.8
Cidade de Maputo       2,198           598           27.2 %             65.9
Total                  27,014         7,604          28.2 %             59.9
Source: MOE Budget 1997; Oryamento Correntepara 1997, Sept. 1996
The new system of IMAPs was decided on in 1995 (Resolution 8/95) with a view of improving
the qualification of teachers. The program is designed in collaboration with the Pedagogical



Annex 16
Page 2 of 4
University. The curriculum organization for the new courses in the IMAPs cover five areas,
namely: (i) Social sciences (civic education, history and geography, (ii) Education sciences
(pedagogy, educational psychology, and school administration), (iii) Communication and
Expression (Portuguese, English, musical education, artistic/visual education, and physical
education), (iv) working activities, and (v) Mathematics and natural sciences. The weekly
training is 37 hours. Teachers graduating from the IMAPs will also teach grades 6 and 7 in the
new complete schools.
The ADPP teacher colleges (a teacher training NGO) are the only non-public teacher training
institutes recognized by the Government. The curriculum follows the IMAP program. The
ADPP program is the first to institute a 10-'-1+1.5 years teacher education program with
supervised training in the schools. Furthermore, through the training of the teachers, emphasis is
placed on the teacher's ability to develop their own materials or leaming guide (in their own
language) or use the available didactic material in innovative ways. In the program 2 1/2 years of
training is provided, with 17 months pre-service training followed by 12 months carried out in a
school in the home province of the student (language). Finally, this is followed up with a one
month training at the college. An important difference between the ADPP colleges and the public
IMAPs/CFPPs is that the ADDP colleges in general are smaller and have been better funded,
equipped and staffed with better qualified instructors. The government supports the expansion of
the ADPP teacher training colleges and the number of graduates is expected to rise from 180
graduates in 1998 to about 400 by year 2001
To increase the supply of teachers, MINED is now developing an accelerated training program
for IMAPs, so that new teachers can complete their pre-service training in 12 months and quickly
assume teaching positions in schools. For the development of this model MINED is looking to
the successful program run by the ADPP. The goal is to move to a 10+1+1 model, in which
prospective teachers who have completed ter. years of schooling will be provided with one vear
of intensive pre-service training followed by a year of supervised practice accompanied by in-
service training and support. The pre-service vear will focus on masterv of the curriculum
content and classroom "survival skills", while the in-service year will focus on the refinement of
pedagogical practice and work with parents and other community constituencies. One of the
benefits of the proposed 10+1-1 program and the experience of the ADPP program, is that it will
bring teacher trainers/instructors/tutors in contact with the schools and children through the
second year of in-school training.
In-service Teacher Training: The IMAP program is complemented by a vast expansion in the in-
service teacher training program under the Teacher Improvement Institute (IAP) and the
revitalization of the pedagogical zones (ZIPs). These programs will serve two purposes: (i)
continuing education of practicing teachers (trained or untrained) with a view of keeping teachers
abreast, maintain and upgrade their pedagogical and technical levels, and (ii) support newly
recruited teachers and upgrade the qualifications of untrained teachers. Continuing eduLcation will
be provided through the ZIPs and the LAP, using distance leaming methodologies. The in-service
program for untrained teachers consists of 50 self-learning modules (2,600 hours) and has to be
completed within four years. The students may meet in "nucleus", a specially designed location
(in a school or ZIP) where a tutor helps teachers through the learning process. The IAP program
is expected to train and upgrade 15,000 untrained teachers over five years and improve the
qualifications of another 6,000 trained teachers. The Government is including salary provisions
for teacher upgrading, and the administrative procedures for promotions are being streamlined, to
ensure a strong motivation for teachers to upgrade their skills.
ZIPs: Pedagogical zones (or ZIPs) are not a new phenomenon in Mozambique, but go back as
early as 1958 and have functioned as the focal point between 6 to 10 schools to discuss



Annex 16
Page 3 of 4
administrative and education matters. Because didactic, other learning materials and training
resources have been limited during the 1990s or sporadically disbursed, the ZIPs have mainly
functioned as a focal point for teachers to discuss problems. Under the new plan the ZIPs will be
revitalized to provide in-service training activities and other education related activities.
Teacher training courses grades 6-12: The teacher training courses from grade 6 to upper
secondary level have historically been structured as follows: For grade 6-7 through the mid-level
pedagogic institutes - Institutos Medios de Professores Primarios - (IMP) with 10th grade exam as
an entry requirement and 3 years training in bivalent courses. Under the new plan and the
introduction of complete schools (grade 1 to 7) the structure for teacher training for grades 6 and
7 will be changed, so that it would be possible to use only 2-3 teachers per class and to provide
teachers with skills to deal with multiple classes. The IMPs are currently graduating about 220
teachers per year and will be gradually phased out as the IMAP program increases the number of
graduates.
At secondary level (grades 8-12) teacher training is undertaken by the Pedagogical University
(UP) or the Eduardo Mondlane University Education Faculty with entry requirements for teacher
for lower secondary education (grades 8-9) with 9th grade exams and two years of training in two
specific disciplines. For teacher for grades 10-12 entry requirement is completion of 12th grade
and four years of training. Fewer than 100 students graduate each year from UP and UEM
together.
Supply and demand for teachers. Under the proposed expansion an estimated 18,700 teachers
will be needed from 1999-2003. The IMAPs and CFPP will graduate about 4,085 and 4,175
respectively over the sarne period. The ADPP schools are expected to graduate about 1,860
teachers.
This is assuming that the current high levels of drop-out and repetition rates, at 15% and 25%
respectively, are reduced by half. Without an improvement in the internal efficiency of the
teacher training system, there will be a need to hire about 8,400 untrained teachers as shown in
Figure 1. The Government intends to hire these teachers from the about 4,500 annual 10th grade
graduates and through an intensified and expanded in-service training program to upgrade their
pedagogical qualification. All new teachers hired as 10th grade graduates w ill receive some brief
professional orientation before they enter the classroom. Finally, the revitalization of the ZIPs
will to a large extent function as centers for teacher exchanges and assist new teachers as
described above.



Annex 16
Page 4 of 4
Figure 1. Teacher Demand and Supply and In-service Training
4500
4000 -
3500 -
3000 t   .s          Z SPPIY
2500                  _     _Demand
2000                                    IAP
1500 -                   ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Linear (Supply)
1500 _ 110 _ |. . _ lil _ i  _ 10 _         'Lirnear (Demand)
1000 
500-
0
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003
MINED recognizes that the current number of pre-service teacher training graduates will be
inadequate. To cover the proposed expansion (requiring about 18,500 teachers for 1999-2003)
and improvements to the education system, the governnent will therefore rely on an expanded in-
service teacher training program. This is albout 1,500 fewer teachers than the number required if
no improvement is made to the efficiency of the system (20,000 teachers). Overall about 8,500
teachers without pre-service training will have to be hired from the 10th grade and trained
through this in-service training program. At the moment the expansion in the number of teachers
and the hiring of 10th grade graduates are viable both from a fiscal and supply side. The pressure
on the system will be further eased if the proposed improvements in the internal efficiency are
implemented for both basic education and the teacher training system. In the alternative scenario
described in Annex 4 (Table 7(b)), the population census for 1997, which estimates overall
population about 20% below the estimations based on the 1980 census, has been used. Under this
scenario the proposed expansion of the education system becomes more feasible, as the need for
teachers will go down to about 13,900 teachers for lower primary. This will ease the pressure for
hiring 1 0th grade graduates and making the upgrading of untrained teachers viable within 5-6
years.



aziw A  J. I i o                    r                  I/
t,1 ;L2hAW   /                                                TANZANIA \              ._                 . cAZA-
K[ ii o3 /    A        .         ,,4 T 12"                                                                                                     12-
32                                \
! M A L A W  I                                                                   , P-uez          e
ZAMBIA                           M                                                                              M ,          ,. -o'.
\g)                          Z\                                                           _      
N    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4         M '                                                                                                                                           1BE4
, >Cossocalico     '                        > .                               ---.                                        cl
,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PDM DfaRT OF )  tCATION u;
_     c-c---  1s<                          t >         >     \           -      ./.                                              \ .                6
\Tote Mctine    S>         (                                    t            Nupv  (LA?)
]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLCE y                              M sDS
-18'                                                                                                                                                     to|f      ASSttl
DT BMOZAMBrE UE
. 0 2 Z:I Mi B A B W0E  ;  ;,    :.'+  9:   X        ,vrz  =/                       ~~~Cl-H A N N E L
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POIC  '; N jArdE 0S                                                                          24 '!i  p  9  
;:    t   0   D :g 0 .0 t   '-  X          -.MOZAMBIQUE
UTH i    t  K                                                                        EDUCATION SECTOR
AFRICA000:0 0v-dc    - --                                                            STRTEGIC PRO                         (ESSP)
-2&  N.;,                                                              Thk            b, 16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NEW EAC-lE TRAiil c a T wn W22B-
D .  i S   S :;: t? '   :   SO'.                           1 
/>                                                                         *      cRICA! N          A  AEAR-WGCO  lGES IoS'
. a a w j t   0    j tt        *                    E                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* SELEC-EDCIIIES
7S; ~      ~       '                                                 p   6IJS0   0 ||     OBRMENE  *e    N-ATIONALWCAPTAJ
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tdNca                                                    -   P   .9:j||&- SROINCE BC)UNDARIES24
- e 0 0   '         2     Cbibub2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~s  ,                      --  -   INTERNATIONAL BOLIPtARIES
;   AFR0ICA                IMAPUTO JI
r   {->; M -tA2kACUENE                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMEtERS
26                 |     NmxF.            b                                                    thi moap eons pcadaaed by the Map Dociga Uha aIo The Wodtd Back26
.  t   J  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ m~~~~~a this nap doa act imply, cc the pac af The tEorlo Back Gracp, ony
z                  (DSWALJLAINU ) tcuThrljaa                                                     acaatcaeasocahhaaadab ouies                     
5  32      \             'l S~~~~!OUTI4FRICA      34'                                   36'38                                 40 2



