Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3172-MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Sector Strategic Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 4, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3172-MOZ 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated January 7, 1999, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower’s educational sector (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms part of 
the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain, inter alia, from the African Development 
Bank (AfDB), the Department of Foreign International Development (DFID), the 
Government of Ireland, the Government of the Netherlands, the Islamic Development Bank 
(IDB), the European Union (EU), the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), 
the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the Danish International 
Development Agency (DANIDA), the Finnish International Development Agency (FINNIDA), 
the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), the United Nations Development 
Program (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and the United Nations 
World Food Program (WFP), (collectively referred to as the Cofinanciers), loans and 
grants in an aggregate amount approximately equivalent to two hundred two million 
dollars (US$202,000,000) during the period 1999-2003, to assist in financing the 
Program on the terms and conditions set forth in the respective loan and grant 
Page  2
agreements (the Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
each of the Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the Program upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
(a)
“AWPB” means the annual work program and budget prepared by the Borrower 
for the purpose of the Project pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(b)
“Banco de Moçambique” means the Borrower’s central bank;  
(c)
“CCM” means Conselho Consultivo do Ministerio, the Advisory Board of 
MINED (as hereinafter defined); 
(d)
“Financial Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement containing detailed arrangements 
regarding the financial procedures to be used for the purpose of implementation of the 
Program, including the terms and conditions regarding the management of Grants (as 
hereinafter defined), and such term includes any schedules to the Financial Procedures 
Manual; 
(e)
“Grants” means grants provided under Part A.6 of the Project;
(f)
“MINED” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(g)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement; 
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each one of the reports prepared in 
Page  3
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i)
“Program Implementation Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement containing, inter alia, work plans, 
training plans and administrative and operational procedures to be used for the 
purpose of implementation of the Program, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Program Implementation Manual; and 
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty one million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 51,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1, 2009 and ending February 1, 2039.  
Each installment to, and including the installment payable on February 1, 2019, shall 
Page  4
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgement of the Association, 
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, educational and technical practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.  
Page  5
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and Account reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and Account are included in the annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains 
a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2000, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
Page  6
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project  implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association  not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has adopted a Program Implementation Manual, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has adopted a Financial Procedures Manual, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association, a procurement 
plan for the first two years of the Project; and
(d)
for the purposes of Article IV of this Agreement, the Borrower has 
appointed a financial controller and a deputy financial controller, in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor of the Banco de Moçambique is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Governor
Banco de Moçambique
Departamento de Relaçoes Internacionais
Maputo 
Republic of Mozambique
Page  7
Cable address: 
Telex:
MOBANCO
6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ Marcus Namashualua 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President  
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   20,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures
and 90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
    9,500,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures
and 90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
   12,400,000
100%
services
including training
(4)
Grants under
    3,600,000
95% 
Page  8
Part A.6 
of the Project
(5)
Operating costs
    3,200,000
90%
(6)
Unallocated
    2,400,000
   __________
TOTAL
   51,100,000
   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means incremental expenditures incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring including office 
consumables (including communication expenses), staff travel and associated 
subsistence allowances, salaries for incremental contractual and temporary staff, 
office rental, office supplies and maintenance, and fuel and maintenance for vehicles 
and equipment, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category 4, unless the Grants have been made in 
accordance with the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth in  
paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts 
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; (c) consultants’ services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; (d) consultants’ services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent; and (e) operating costs and training under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the quality and efficiency of 
general basic and secondary education; (b) increase coverage and equity of education; 
(c) strengthen the Borrower’s institutions in the education sector; and (d) develop 
strategies aimed at making technical education, vocational training and higher 
education more relevant and responsive to the needs of the economy. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improving the Quality of Education 
1.
Teachers’ training 
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment and logistical 
assistance for the carrying out of a program of pre-service and in-service training 
for teachers and development and implementation of distance-learning programs. 
(b)
Design, construction, and furnishing of five Institutos de Magistério 
Primário (IMAPs) and one Instituto de Aperfeiçoamento de Professores (IAP) and 
rehabilitation of continuing education centers (NUFORPES). 
Page  9
2.
Pedagogical support for teachers 
(a)
Rehabilitation of about 840 Zonas de Influencia Pedagogica (ZIPs), 
including provision of equipment, teaching materials and logistical assistance. 
(b)
Strengthening of pedagogical supervision and school inspection services 
through the provision of technical advisory services, equipment and logistical 
assistance. (c)
Carrying out of a training program for ZIP coordinators and head 
teachers of schools. 
3.
Curriculum transformation Provision of technical advisory services, equipment 
and training materials to revise curriculum in order to reflect national values and 
cultural diversity, and integrate covered materials across grades and subjects.
4.
Learning materials 
(a)
Provision of about 43 million primary school textbooks, teachers’ and 
other learning manuals. 
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory services to develop a strategy for the 
commercialization of textbooks, and materials development and production. 
(c)
Preparation and implementation of a new school materials policy, 
including decentralization of the procurement of text books. 
5. 
Assessment and Examination Provision of technical advisory services and 
equipment for the development of systems to conduct examinations and educational 
assessments. 
6. 
School Quality Improvement Grant Establishment and operation of a school quality 
improvement fund, including provisions of grants to selected primary schools.
Part B:
Access to Education 
1.
Construction and Rehabilitation 
(a)
Construction or rehabilitation of about 12000 primary school classrooms, 
including latrines and water supply network, and establishment of a maintenance 
program related thereto. 
(b) 
Construction of about  372  staff housing units for primary schools.  
(c)
Construction of five new secondary schools and rehabilitation of the 
existing two  secondary schools and 12 dormitories. 
(d) 
Provision of technical advisory services for the design and supervision 
of the activities carried out under (a), (b) and (c) above. 
2.
Girls Education Initiative 
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment and logistical 
assistance for the establishment of scholarships for girls, design incentives for 
girls to stay longer at school, and  organization of awards. 
(b)
Construction or rehabilitation of boarding facilities for girl students 
in secondary schools.
(c)
Provision  of technical advisory services and logistical assistance: (i) 
for the carrying out of social awareness campaigns aimed at reducing the workload of  
girls students on household activities; and (ii) strengthening of the capacity of 
MINED’s central and provincial coordination of gender initiatives.  
(d)
Carrying out of gender sensitive pilot initiatives in non-formal 
education. 
(e) 
Carrying out of a district school mapping exercise to identify areas with 
marked gender disparities. 
Page  10
3.
Nonformal, Special, and Non-Public Education 
(a)
Design and promotion of the establishment of non-formal education 
initiatives.  
(b)
Development of a strategy for providing education to children with 
special needs, and development of training programs and teaching tools for special 
education teachers.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building 
1.
Improvement of Delivery services 
(a)
Design an organizational structure for coordinating implementation of the 
Program within MINED, including the revision of the legal framework related thereto. 
(b)
Design and implementation of a planning, information, communication, 
monitoring and evaluation systems. 
(c)
Review of the teachers’ career plan and the incentive structure for 
teachers and technical staff at all levels. 
2.
Planning and Policy  
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment for policy development, 
planning and monitoring, organization of focus groups with stakeholders, and design 
and implementation of public campaigns.
3.
Financial and Procurement Management 
Establishment of financial management systems at all levels and provision of 
training in the area of financial management and establishment of a computerized  
record-keeping system. 
4. 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
Provision of technical advisory services and carrying out of studies to enable 
MINED to gather and analyze data to monitor and evaluate different educational 
activities.
Part D:
Technical Education, Vocational Training and Higher Education 
Carrying out of studies to develop strategies and investment programs for 
technical education, vocational training, and higher education systems.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A 
(the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”. 
Page  11
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 and $200,000, equivalent or more respectively 
each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Republic of 
Mozambique and works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising The invitation to prequalify or bid for each 
contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, and goods, which the Association 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent and works estimated to cost less 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
3.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Procurement from IAPSO 
Individual units of office equipment may be procured from the Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services office of the UNDP in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.9 of the Guidelines. 
6.
Community Participation 
Goods and works required for Part B of the Project shall be procured in 
Page  12
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
7.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 and $100,000 or more, respectively, and the first five 
contracts for each province, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $20,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and  
revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines), subject to the modifications 
thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank Member 
Countries” and “Member Country” shall be deemed to be references respectively 
“Participating Countries” and Participating Country”.
Page  13
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for construction supervision under Part B 
of the Project and for training under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for administrative training and auditing estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for textbook publishing and marketing which are estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Program 
Implementation Manual and the Financial Procedures Manual and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall, not later than May 31 of each year, carry out jointly 
with the Association a comprehensive annual Project implementation review aimed at: 
(i) documenting progress toward objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles 
to Project implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, 
targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation 
of the Program in prior years and ensuring responsiveness to changes to effectively 
achieve the objectives of the Program.
(b)
The annual review referred to in (a) above shall be conducted in 
accordance with Performance Indicators referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.  
3.
The Borrower shall, not later than October 1 of each year, prepare and furnish 
to the Association an annual work program and budget (AWPB) consistent with the 
Program including an assessment of the fiscal feasibility of the Project. The Borrower 
and the Association shall discuss each AWPB at the joint annual review meeting and, 
after incorporating the comments of the Association, the Borrower shall, not later 
than January 1, approve the AWPB.
4.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association at the end of the first and third 
quarters of each year a progress report including information on agreed upon 
Performance Indicators based on data from the monitoring system. The report shall 
include, inter alia: (a) a summary statement on the status of execution of each 
activity under the Project; and (b) a table showing compliance with project covenants 
and progress in implementing agreed policy objectives.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators referred 
to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31, 2001, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
6.
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1999: (a) prepare and furnish to 
the Association a plan for the interaction of communities and schools; (b) carry out 
and complete a census of ZIPs and prepare a plan for expansion of their activities; 
(c) prepare and furnish to the Association an action plan for the improvement of 
internal efficiency (dropout and repetition); and (d) prepare and furnish to the 
Association a specific plan and procedures or the management of direct grants to 
schools. 
7.
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2000, prepare and furnish to the 
Association a policy strategy and work program for privatization of text-book 
publication.
Page  15
8.
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2000: (a) carry out a study on 
improving time on tasks in schools; (b) furnish to the Association, for review and 
comment, the findings and recommendations of said study; and (c) take all necessary 
actions to carry out specific measures emanating from such recommendations,  taking 
into account the Associations  comments thereon. 
9.
Grants Under Part A.6
(a)
Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph 1 (b) of this 
Schedule, and except as the Association shall, in the carrying out of Part A.6 of the 
Project, apply the rules, procedures and eligibility criteria for grants, specified in 
the Financial Procedures Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of Part A.6 of the Project.
(b)
For the purpose of evaluating and approving a Grant, MINED shall 
establish a Financial Management Committee, with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association. The Financial Management Committee shall make the Grant available to the 
schools in accordance with the guidelines and criteria set forth in the Financial 
Procedures Manual and shall, inter alia, ensure that:
(i)
a detailed proposal has been submitted;
(ii)
the proposal is inexpensive; and
(iii)
MINED shall have the right to obtain from the beneficiary of the 
grants all 
such information as MINED or the Association shall 
reasonably request 
pertaining to the utilization of the Grant.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 10,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  16
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.  
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
Page  17
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
Outcome Indicators
1.
Increased proportion of students passing key primary and lower secondary 
examinations:
(i)
Grade 5 from 54% to 75%;
(ii)
Grade 7 from 37% to 60%; and
(iii)
Grade 10 from 33% to 55%; 
2.
A reduction in the average repetition and dropout rates by half for primary and 
lower secondary education.
3.
An increase in gross enrollment rates: (i) Grades 1-5 from 67% to 86%; and (ii) 
Grades 6-7 from 15% to 30%. 
4.
An increase in enrolment in the schools and districts where classrooms are 
built, equivalent to about 75% of the new capacity created. 
5.
Implementation of at least 80% of the work program for each year measured by the 
physical targets and the budget spent for program and routine activities. 
6.
Achievement of the agreed rate of decentralization of management to the 
provinces and districts as defined in the Schedule to the Program Implantation Manual 
(PIM). Program Performance Monitoring Program performance monitoring shall be carried 
out using a Program Monitoring Reporting (PMR) system which will link expenditures, 
outputs and schedule of implementation, including procurement, for each component at 
quarterly intervals.
