                                                                 37097


                           Document of
                       The World Bank




                                                Report No:ICR000029




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
              ( IDA-31720 IDA-3172A NETH-54325 )

                            ON A

              LOAN / CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                      US$ MILLION 71.80

    (US$ 3.11 MILLION LOAN & SDR 48.07 MILLION CREDIT)

                              TO

                        MOZAMBIQUE

                             FOR

       EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGY PROGRAM (ESSP)




                       December 1, 2006




Human Development 1

Country Department 2
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective 08/25/2006 )
                                Currency Unit = Metic
                                   Metic 1.00 = US$ 0.04
                                    US$ 1.00 = Metic 25.85


                                        Fiscal Year
                                 January 1 to December 31




                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APR     Annual Progress Report
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DANIDA Danish International Development Agency
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DO      Development Objective
DSS     Direct Support to Schools
EP1    Ensino Primario do Primeiro Grau (Grades 1-5)
EP2    Ensino Primario do Primeiro Grau (Grades 6-7)
ESG1   Ensino Secundario do Primeiro Grau (Grades 8-10)
ESG2   Ensino Secundario do Segundo Grau (Grades 11-12)
ESSP   Education Sector Strategic Program
FASe    Education Sector Pool Funds
FMR    Financial Management Report
FTI    Fast Track Initiative
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
       Gabinete de Gastao de Projector Educacionais (Education Projects Implementation
GEPE
       Unit)
GER     Gross Enrollment Rate
GOM     Government of Mozambique
IAP     Instituto de Aperfeicoamento do professor (Teacher in-service Training Institute)
IMAP    Instituto de Magisterio Primario (Teacher Training Institute)
M and E Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG     Millennium Development Goal
MEC    Ministerio Da Educacao E Cultura (Ministry of Education)
MINED   Ministerio Da Educacao
NER    Net Enrollment Rate
NGO    Non-governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Report
PARPA   Plano de Accao para a reducao da Pobreza Asoluta (Poverty Reduction Strategy)

PIU    Project Implementation Unit
QEA    Quality at Entry Assessment
QSA    Quality of Supervision Assessment
RAR    Reuniao Anual de Revisao (Annual Review)
       Sisterma Integrado de Administracao Funanceira do Estado (Integrated FM
SISTAFE
       Information System)
SWAp   Sector Wide Approach program
ZIP    Zona de Influencia Pedagogica (Pedagogical Support Zone)




                            Vice President: Gobind T. Nankani

                         Country Director: Michael Baxter

                           Sector Manager: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka

                      Project Team Leader: Xiaoyan Liang

                                                  Mozambique
                      Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
8. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 13
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 16
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 17
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 18
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 21
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 24
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 29
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 30
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 32
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 33
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 34
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 35
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 38
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 39
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 41

1. Basic Information
                                                                      Education Sector
Country:                Mozambique            Project Name:           Strategic Program
                                                                      (ESSP)

Project ID:             P001786               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-31720,IDA-
                                                                      3172A,NETH-54325
ICR Date:               12/14/2006            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:               GOVT. OF
                                                                      MOZAMBIQUE
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 51.1M             Disbursed Amount:       XDR 48.1M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 04/16/1997           Effectiveness:     08/02/1999         08/02/1999
Appraisal:         06/24/1998        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          02/18/1999        Mid-term Review: 12/17/2005           04/03/2002
                                     Closing:           06/30/2004         06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):           None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):     Satisfactory

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                        10                7
Adult literacy/non-formal education                          1                1
Primary education                                           70              68
Secondary education                                                         20
Tertiary education                                          18
Vocational training                                          1                4
                                              Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Participation and civic engagement             Primary          Primary
Gender                                         Primary          Secondary
Social analysis and monitoring                 Secondary        Secondary
Education for all                              Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure              Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                At ICR         At Approval

Vice President:                               Gobind T.        Callisto E.
                                              Nankani          Madavo

Country Director:                             Michael Baxter   Phyllis R.
                                                               Pomerantz

Sector Manager:                               Dzingai B.
                                              Mutumbuka        Ruth Kagia

Project Team Leader:                          Xiaoyan Liang    Donald B.
                                                               Hamilton
ICR Team Leader:                              Xiaoyan Liang
ICR Primary Author:                           Prema Clarke




                                          2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


Mozambique received its independence in 1975. The Education Sector Strategic Program (ESSP)
followed three education sector projects implemented during the years after independence. These
earlier education projects focused on capacity building and the expansion of schooling. The 1976-
1992 civil war, however, destroyed 3,400 school and to some extent reversed the earlier gains
made in education.

The ESSP was formulated in a politically stable environment accompanied by the substantial
economic growth that characterized the years after the civil war. The project design and
development objectives (DOs) were seen to be critical to the status of the education sector in
Mozambique operating in a post-conflict environment. The DOs coincided with the aspirations of
the Government of Mozambique (GOM). This was conveyed in the 1992 Ministerial Decree
following the signing of the peace agreement and was then reiterated in the Education Sector
Strategy Program formulated in 1997. According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the
focus on quality in the project design and objectives was particularly pertinent as there was
considerable expansion of the system without commensurate improvement in quality during the
years after peace was restored to the country.

The objectives were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Doc No.: 17180)
for Mozambique, which emphasized the expansion of human capital and building-up of
partnerships with donors for development. The CAS objectives corresponded with the Paris
Declaration (1990) mandating a shift in donor support to coordinate and streamline aid to
developing nations. Building partnerships was especially pertinent to the Mozambican context
with multiple and disparate donors and Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) working in the
education sector. The project also reiterates the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
established in 2001 of universal primary education and improvement in the participation of girls.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the Education Sector Strategy Program was to provide increased
and equitable access to higher quality education that would be instrumental in promoting
economic and social development in the country.

The key performance indicators are:
1. Increased proportion of students passing key primary and lower secondary examinations: (i)
Grade 5 from 54 percent to 74 percent; (ii) Grade 7 from 37 percent to 60 percent; and (iii) Grade
10 from 33 percent to 55 percent.
2. A reduction in the average repetition by half for both primary and lower secondary levels.
3. An increase in gross enrollment rates (GERs): (i) Grade 1-5 from 67 percent to 86 percent; (ii)
Grades 6-7 from 5 percent to 30 percent.
4. An increase in enrollment in schools and, in districts where classrooms are built equivalent to
at least 75 percent of the new capacity created.
5. Implementation of at least 80 percent of the work program for each year, measured by physical



                                                  3

targets, budget spent and routine activities.
6. Achievement of the agreed rate of decentralization of management to the provinces and
districts as defined in the schedule to be included in the Program Implementation Manual.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

No revisions.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The main beneficiary of the program was GOM's school system: about 10,000 schools, 3.4
million students, 60,000 teachers, communities and parents. The officials in GOM's Ministry of
Education and Culture (Ministerio Da Educacao E Cultura, MEC) at the central and provincial
levels also benefited from the program. The project identifies girls and vulnerable groups from
rural areas as receiving specific attention in the program. Secondary beneficiaries to the program
were the departments of technical education and higher education.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project comprised of five components:
(1) Quality of education to improve high repetition and low completion rates (US$108.5 million;
IDA: US$25. 8) with five subcomponents: (i) Provision of teacher training; (ii) Ensuring
pedagogical support for teachers; (iii) Curriculum transformation; (iv) Preparation of learning
materials; (v) Reform in assessment and examinations; (vi) Introducing Direct support for
schools; and (v) Training of school directors.

(2) Access to education to increase access and ensure equity (US$193.3 million; IDA:
US$36.4) with four subcomponents. (i) School and classroom construction and rehabilitation; (ii)
Introducing initiatives for girl's education; (iii) Expanding non-formal education; and (iv)
Improving special education for children with disabilities.

(3) Institutional capacity to strengthen management capacity (US$325.4 million; IDA: US$8.3
million) with four subcomponents: (i) Reform in the organizational structure and strengthening
decentralization; (ii) Enhancing skills for policy analysis and planning; (iii) Improving financial
management; and (iv) Ensuring systematic monitoring and evaluation.

(4) Develop a strategy for technical and vocational education. (US$42.1 million; IDA: US$.5
million).

(5) Strategic planning for expanding and improving the quality of higher education (No cost
provided).

6.6 Revised Components




                                                    4

No revisions

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The IDA Credit was designed as a specific investment loan to support the GOM's education
sector program, also called ESSP, using a Sector Wide Approach Program (SWAp). In the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the project was referred to as a "Technical Assistance
Loan" and in the PAD as a "Sector Investment Loan." ESSP included substantial financial
support from donors for different components and subcomponents. Though, the activities
supported by the Credit are specified, the PDOs relate to the entire ESSP. As there was no legal
framework under girding donor involvement as outlined in the PAD, several donors redefined
their support to GOM. In response, without changing the DOs, several adjustments were made in
the scope of the components funded by the IDA Credit. This realignment during implementation
was foreseen in the PAD when it notes that the ESSP is a rolling plan to be revised
annually. These adjustments were made during the supervision and mid-term missions and
through formal amendment to the allocations to the civil works and school grants categories
in the DCA.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Several positive aspects of the preparation and design of ESSP can be identified. (i)
GOM's strong and consistent commitment to education reform is evident throughout the
preparation and implementation of ESSP. (ii) GOM's Education Sector Strategic
Plan provided the much needed policy framework for donor interaction and the move towards a
coordinated donor approach to educational reform supported in the design of ESSP. The Bank
was the first donor to support this strategy.

(iii) As there was no agreement among donors on the procurement and financial instruments
critical for Bank financing, the decision was taken to design ESSP as an investment operation
rather than through sector budget support or pool funds. Attention was given in the preparation of
ESSP to include the overall DOs and to accommodate the nascent donor support program
through parallel financing. The PAD refers to IDA as supporting "core elements" while donors
finalized their programs.

(iv) The operation was forward-looking and comprehensive in forcing the country to think of
sub-sectors in education, such as technical and higher education that had hitherto not received
much attention. (v) The project design included the mainstreaming of the stand-alone and
independent Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established for earlier Bank projects in
Mozambique. Lessons learnt from previous projects and relevant and detailed analysis informed
the design of ESSP.

There are, however, several issues related to project preparation and design and the Quality of
Supervision Assessment (QSA5) also refers to an "unsound" design at entry. (i) The way in
which this Credit was designed as an investment operation within an overall SWAp framework



                                                 5

depended on donor support and funding for significant components of ESSP. However, there was
no legal framework for ensuring donor funding. (ii) The decision to incorporate the expected
participation of 14 donors in the various components of ESSP contributed to an overly complex
and ambitious project design, which lacked, according to the Bank's mid-term supervision
review, "overall coherence." This complexity and incoherence made it difficult, on the one hand,
for the Bank task team to assess the implementation performance of this project and, on the other
hand, for GOM to adequately report on the progress made in implementation.

(iii) The less than satisfactory implementation performance of the project during its early years
indicates that the project preparation team did not sufficiently take into account the limited
readiness of project authorities to implement this program. Readiness specifically in two areas
could have been better addressed. First, the team underestimated the extent of reorganization
required to relocate implementation from a PIU to the Ministerio Da Educacao (MINED)
renamed MEC. Second, the team did not take into account the challenges involved in the
preparation of strategic action plans crucial for timely financing and implementation. Even at
mid-term, the PSRs discuss the need for such plans for several components including community
construction, teacher training, direct support to schools and improving the performance of
provincial level institutions.

(iv) As the project included the whole sector in its design, it is not clear whether the different
sub-sectors received sufficient attention. For instance, if the secondary education sub-sector is
considered, while the civil works requirements for this level of education was addressed, other
aspects at the secondary level, such as curriculum reform and teacher training, were not
adequately dealt with.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

The closing date of the project was extended by 24 months. Project implementation was rated
unsatisfactory from the end of 2000 to 2002. After the project was realigned to focus on
components that required additional financing, such as civil works and Direct Support to Schools
(DSS), project implementation was rated satisfactory. The following factors facilitated project
implementation.

(i) The post-civil war environment marked by stability and economic prosperity supported an
ethos upholding the importance of developing education and skill in the population. This ethos
provided the necessary motivation and public pressure to implement the project.

(ii) In a scenario of uncertainty in donor funding, the decision of the Bank and GOM to expand
the resource intensive components of the project, facilitated the implementation of ESSP.
Financing was increased for the access component and decreased in the quality and institutional
capacity building components. Within the quality component, however, the Bank initiated the
DSS program, which allocates a small amount of cash (one US$ per student per year) to schools
for the purchase of basic teaching and learning materials. Disbursed twice a year, the DSS in
2004 had a special allocation for the production of a school health manual with a focus on
HIV/AIDS. In 2005, the DSS incorporated a pilot intervention for HIV/AIDS orphans in four
districts. The DSS program was the only program which effectively ensured some level of
cash revenue for the schools in the context of abolishing primary school fees.




                                                   6

(iii) Mainstreaming project implementation to MEC allowed for ownership and sustainability of
project interventions. (iv) The supervision strategy adopted in the project, which involved the
review of the whole sector in the annual event (Reuniao Anual de Revisao or RAR), was useful in
bringing together the state, the provinces and the donors. It provided an occasion for highlighting
achievements and issues. Furthermore, this event played an important role in developing donor
harmonization and program implementation.

Several factors also constrained project implementation. (i) For GOM, the dynamics of dealing
with and overseeing the involvement of a variety of donors and different departments within
MEC each with its own distinctive culture have constrained project implementation. It took time
to develop an effective level of coordination. Towards the end of the project there appears to be a
shared vision across departments in the MEC, which has resulted in more effective project
implementation. This bodes well for future operations in the education sector.

(ii) Political economy issues constrained project implementation during its early years. The
newly appointed minister of education, elected after the commencement of the project, felt it was
better to re-introduce the earlier PIU called the Gabinete de Gestao de Projector Educacionais
(GEPE or the Education Projects Implementation Unit). Most department officials did not
support this move causing a split in project management between GEPE and the Minister, on one
side, and the MEC, on the other. Project implementation slowed down during this period,
especially civil works as the Bank rejected tenders received from GEPE without the approval of
the Directorate of Administration and Finance. On the Bank's insistence this reversal in
responsibility did not take place and MEC was reinstated as the sole implementing agency.

(iii) The capriciousness of donor support due to the absence of a SWAp legal framework
constrained component implementation, especially those dealing with improving quality. The
PAD's extensive discussion and identification of specific activities to be financed by donors was
not sufficient to ensure the required fund availability for these components. In most cases donor
support was redefined and did not match the PAD description of activities. A much more
effective framework for donor support has been adopted in the recently negotiated "Technical
and Vocational Education and Training Project."

(iv) The endorsement of the international donor supported Fast Track Initiative (FTI) in 2003
confused the implementing agency. Due to the lack of clarity on how Mozambique could
participate in this program and the impression that FTI funds could substitute for IDA funds
slowed the pace of implementation. (v) Several of the interventions depended on consultant
reports for providing a road map for implementation. Some of the reports were not appropriate
and useful for this purpose. For example, the consultant report on the development of capacity
failed to provide the much needed direction and specification of activities for this component.

(vi) Cost escalation of construction material required re-estimation and delay in the civil works
component. In addition, the lack of in-country procurement and financial expertise delayed
project implementation in the first few years. Procurement and financial experts had to be hired
from surrounding countries. (vii) While the RARs were critical to the supervision of the project,
it did not include systematic reporting and reflection on the implementation status of the ESSP.
Regular GOM evaluations may have helped to identify bottlenecks constraining project
implementation. (viii) The country was hit by severe floods in 2000, stalling implementation for
several months.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization



                                                  7

The PAD outlines a fairly extensive plan for monitoring and evaluating (M&E) the project. MEC
was to review project implementation based on the specified M&E indicators in Annex 1. Each
unit within MEC was to develop monitoring instruments relevant to their respective component.
Supported by Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), the MEC was to consolidate statistical,
financial and physical data on the rate of implementation. FMRs were to be accompanied by
Annual Progress Reports (APRs) identifying constraints to the implementation of ESSP. The
donor group was to monitor and evaluate their respective components and provide their own
reports.

The MEC has provided timely and comprehensive FMR reports limited to physical achievements
and IDA financing. MEC did not provide APRs on outcomes and component implementation,
and donor reports were not generated. APRs would have allowed M&E to be more complete in
addition to providing an opportunity for the implementing agency and donors to analyze the
extent to which project interventions were leading to outcomes.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project was in the C category and no issues were identified during the project period.

Except for the lack of skilled personnel during the first few years of the project period, no issues
related to fiduciary compliance were reported. Audit reports were provided on time and there
were no issues with government funding and financing. Transactions and balances were
accurately recorded with regular and reliable financial statements. There were no significant
issues related to internal controls or accountability. Internal audit functions within the Ministry of
Education, however, required assistance, which included setting up an independent internal audit
department that would design, organize and maintain an internal audit structure, train relevant
staff at the central and provincial levels and put together an internal controls manual. These tasks
have been completed.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

ESSP II prepared by GOM is to continue the implementation of ESSP. ESSP II outlines
outcomes and strategies covering the period 2007 to 2011. The costs for this plan are yet to be
finalized. Draft estimates indicate that it will cost around US$3 billion. FASe (Education Sector
Pool Fund), a financing mechanism for donors in the education sector, was established in 2003.
Assuming a real growth rate of 5 percent with 18 percent of GDP allocated for education and
FASe funding (which is to be US$50 million annually), the deficit in the budget is estimated to
be US$800 million or US$160 million annually. Further to providing assistance to the
government and exploring possibilities of efficiency gains within the sector, the Bank has two
options. First, the Bank will be involved with extensive dialogue with the GOM to increase
funding for the education sector from its current level of 18 percent. Second, the Bank would also
explore the possibility of IDA funding in the FASe.

GOM has now completed strategic planning in significant areas. Implementation of several



                                                   8

critical activities such as the DSS and HIV AIDS started in ESSP will continue. Some of the
interventions such as textbooks will require further cost analysis and evaluation to make it more
effective for improving learning levels. In future operations, close attention will be needed for
interventions related to improving the quality of education. It will be useful to undertake periodic
analysis of school and classroom functioning to understand the impact of the various activities
intended to improve learning and reduce repetition. The capacity development of provincial level
institutions to administer and manage education will be particularly important in the next phase.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


Development objectives: The DO of ESSP continues to be relevant and appropriate at the time of
writing this ICR. Though, more fine tuning of the indicators to ensure more precision in
definition and measurement would be useful. The Bank and GOM have commenced this task as
evident in GOM's plan for reducing poverty (Plano de Accao para a Reducao da Pobreza
Asoluta or PARPA), and the most recent CAS progress Report (CAS Progress Report for the
period FY04-06, February 21, 2006). The method of measuring enrollment is shifting from GERs
to Net Enrollment Rates (NERs), which is more precise. GERs tend to include both under age
and over age children causing over-counting while NERs represent the percentage of students
enrolled in a particular age group.

More attention given to measuring repetition, the acquisition of adequate knowledge and skill
especially in language and mathematics and the documentation of provincial level performance
over time will be important. There is also the question of whether examination results adequately
reflect improvements in student learning. Sample based assessments of student achievement as
suggested by the CAS and participation in international assessments would provide direction to
ESSP II. Government officials spoken to for this ICR were not entirely clear as to how repetition
and dropout, important indicators of quality, were measured. With the introduction of the new
curriculum, automatic promotions as well as repetition, based on examination performance, were
practiced. Clarity in the measurement of repetition would be useful in monitoring learning. The
CAS and the MDGs also make a shift in emphasis to completion rates and the monitoring of the
percentage of students reaching Grade 5 as well as youth literacy rates.

Project design and implementation: The DSS started in ESSP has been adopted now as
nationwide policy financed by FASe. Due to increases in enrollment infrastructure requirements
will continue to grow and will require inclusion in the ESSP II. The recent report of the
Independent Evaluation Group (2006) highlights the general limitation of Bank projects in the
area of quality. The CAS has identified several interventions in progress to address this issue
such as increasing the number of qualified teachers, improving teacher deployment, and
expanding the DSS and the HIV/AIDS prevention program. A critical determinant of quality is
systematic and effective instruction in the classroom. In addition to enhancing the capacity of
provincial level institutions, improving teacher performance monitoring and the development of
incentives for ensuring better instruction in classrooms will be crucial.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)




                                                  9

1. Success in examinations: The first DO indicator was to increase the proportion of students
passing key primary and lower secondary examinations. At the end of EP1, the increase was to
be from 54 to 74 percent; EP2, 37 to 60 percent; and in ESG1, from 33 to 55 percent. The ISRs
record examinations results from the year 2000. In 2000, there is an increase of EP1 scores to 67
percent and in EP2 to 53 percent and in ESG1 to 45 percent. There are only small variations in
scores in subsequent years until 2005 when scores increase to 75 percent for EP1 and EP2 and to
60 percent for ESG1. While this increase in the last year of the project suggests that the project
has achieved its objective, a few issues discussed below demands a more cautious interpretation.

The Implementation Status Reports rate the quality of data as fair. The increase is also difficult to
explain as the interventions connected with learning such as curriculum reform have only begun
to be implemented and are not yet widespread. In addition, the field visit to schools did not
display conditions sufficient to produce this level of learning. More than half the students in the
class did not possess textbooks. Random assessments during the classroom visit also suggest
limitations in improving learning. If this indicator is taken with the completion rate of students,
there is concern. Only 48 percent of the students enrolled in EP1 complete this level of education,
in EP2, 29 percent; ESG1, 5 percent.

2. Reduction in repetition: Average repetition was to reduce by half for primary and lower
secondary. The average repetition rate for EP1 (lower primary) has reduced from 24 percent in
1999 to 11 percent in 2005; for EP2 from 25 percent to 6 percent; for ESG1 from 25 percent to
19 percent; and for ESG2 from 12 percent to 8 percent. Similar rates are evident for both boys
and girls. This reduction in repetition in 2005 is substantial and indicates the project's success in
achieving its goals. Though, if the 2004 rate is considered -21 percent for EP1 and 20 percent for
EP2- the project was not able to achieve the intended reduction in repetition. The question
remains as to whether the increases in the last year represent a true increase in learning or if it is a
result of policy changes related to the curriculum. GOM has recently introduced cycles of
learning where students were held back only between Grades 2 and 3 and between Grades 5 and
6. In the intervening years students are automatically promoted. In addition to the curriculum
policy change, as the measurement of repetition changed in the last year of the project, it may not
be appropriate to compare the 2005 rate to the baseline.

Taking examination results and repetition outcomes together, the low levels until the last year of
the project reflect the constraints to implementing the quality dimensions of the project such as
revitalizing the Zona da Influencia Pedagogica (Pedagogical Support Zone or ZIPs), ensuring
adequate textbooks in classrooms, delays in curricula revision and absence of examination
reform.

3. Increase in GERs: GERs were to increase from 67 percent to 86 percent for EP1; and from 15
to 30 percent for EP2. There is a steady and significant increase in GERs across all levels of
education and the project has clearly met this goal. In EP1, the GER is 131 percent. The NER for
this same group increased from about 50 to 83 percent. In actual numbers enrollment, which was
2 million in 1999 increased to about 3.4 million in 2005. The GER for EP2 is 47 percent and the
NER increased from 2.5 to 6.7 percent. Actual enrollment increased from 186,000 in 1999 to
more than 450,000. For ESG1 and ESG2, enrollment rose from about 70,000 in 1999 to more
than 240,000 in 2005. Gender equity in enrollment however, has been more of a challenge. The
increase in the percentage of girls enrolled relative to boys was about 4 percentage points in EP1
(42.1 to 46.4 percent) while in the remaining levels EP2, ESG1 and ESG2 the increase was
around one percentage point.




                                                  10

GOM's development of school infrastructure has had a significant impact on increasing GERs in
EP1 and EP2. In EP1, there were 6,114 schools in 1998, which increased to 8,696 in 2005; in
EP2, 381 schools increased to 1,320 in 2005. The abolition of school fees has also contributed to
the phenomenal increases in enrollment. IDA funds were primarily used for civil works at the
secondary school level and though the increase in enrollment at this level is not included in
the DOs the impact is substantial. In ESG1, there were 74 schools in 1998, which increased to
156 in 2005 and in ESG2 from 13 in 1998 to 35 in 2005.

4. Increase in enrollment with the construction program: Enrollment was to increase in
schools and districts where classrooms were built equivalent to at least 75 percent of the new
capacity created. The actual increases in enrollment recorded above confirm the achievement of
this objective. Field visits to the newly constructed schools indicated that students were attending
these schools.

5. Work program implementation: At least 80 percent of the work program was to be
implemented each year and this was to be measured by physical targets achieved and budget
spent. During the first half of the project this goal was not achieved, however in the last three
years, the project overshot this target and completed more than 80 percent of the annual work
program.

6. Decentralization: There was an agreed rate of decentralization of management to the
provinces and districts defined in the Project Implementation Plan. Following the rules
established in the District Social and Economic Plan, each province was responsible for planning
and budgeting for the use of about 7 billion Meticais. The extent to which provinces were able to
do this is unclear as there was limited implementation of the third component i.e. institutional
capacity building.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The twin economic goals of reducing poverty and expanding the size of human capital in the
country have been clearly achieved with the implementation of ESSP. Within an environment of
macro economic stability and consistent commitment to economic reforms the average GDP
growth rate from 1996-2003 was 8 percent. In addition, Mozambique records a reduction in the
poverty head count from 69 to 54 percent between 1997 and 2003. According to the Mozambique
Country Economic Memorandum (June 3, 2005), economic reforms that supported this
phenomenal GDP growth were sustained investments in education, health, agriculture and
employment in the informal sector. A significant part of the economic reforms undertaken by
GOM was to ensure sustained financing to a broad-based development of education, which
included school, technical, vocational and higher education. The share of education expenditure
in GOM's budget has ranged between 18 and 20 percent over the project period.
The impact of education on the reduction in poverty head count is due to the increase in
individual wages as a result of additional years of schooling. It is estimated that an extra year of
education increases wages by about 3 percent in the agriculture sector and between 5 and 15
percent in non-farm work. There is also an increase in the rate of return between 1996 and 2002
for graduates at the secondary and higher secondary levels.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)


                                                  11

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The achievements in ESSP with regard to increasing access and enrollment in education have
been substantial, especially in the lower levels of education. Learning has improved and
repetition has decreased. However, as the CAS Progress Report (2006) points out, improvements
in completion, repetition and dropout are not commensurate with this increase in enrollment and
falls well short of expectation when compared to neighboring countries and countries with
similar income levels. There is also considerable variation in school enrollment by gender and
location. Provinces in the north and center have much lower completion rates than the others.
Overall, the moderately satisfactory rating reflects the substantial achievements in ensuring the
availability of schools and bringing children to school. The rating also represents the limitations
of the project in improving the quality of education and the need for Mozambique to concentrate
on interventions that will improve retention, repetition, completion and learning in schools.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The implementation of this project by MEC rather than by a PIU has had a positive impact on
institutional development at the central level. MEC was fully responsible for project activities
and outcomes, thereby building knowledge and skill in a variety of areas especially
administration and coordination between the different departments responsible for education.
Though the level of Bank procurement and financial management skills required the hiring of
consultants outside the department, the individuals hired for this purpose did develop some of
these skills among the lower tiers of government. MEC implementation also facilitated the
demand for accountability at the ministerial level.

The institutional impact of this project outside of the country's capital, though, appears to be
negligible. Even though provinces were given budgets and responsibilities for planning, there is
limited evidence of improved efficiency and enhanced administrative and management skill.
Improving the quality of education and increasing the level of achievement with regard to
completion, repetition and dropout will depend on the ESSP II project's ability to develop
institutions at the provincial level.

At the sub-provincial level, the ZIPs were intended to be the vibrant institution, playing a
significant role with regard to quality improvement and teacher support. The intended physical
expansion of ZIPs did not happen and developing capacity has taken place in a sporadic manner.
According to department officials, though a ZIP revitalization plan was completed in 2001, it was
not implemented because of the absence of a legal framework that ensured additional
remuneration, and adequate staff with defined and relevant roles and responsibilities. One
supervision report indicates that the Commonwealth of Learning conducted some training for
school heads, the impact of which was not analyzed.

At the community level, the construction of schools by the community did not take place due to


                                                 12

the inability of the project to establish adequately skilled community groups that could take on
the responsibility of construction. Both the capacity building of ZIPs and community level
groups are significant challenges for ESSP II.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The implementation of ESSP has enabled multilateral and bilateral partners to adopt a more
aligned and harmonized approach to delivering aid to education in Mozambique. The preparation
of ESSP II reiterates this alignment and partnership among donors. There is now a new Memo of
Understanding developed and signed for the operationalization of FASe, which is acknowledged
as the main funding mechanism for external support to education in Mozambique.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)




9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The fiscal situation in the country is agreeable to the continued development of the education
sector. The Bank on July 3, 2006 announced the cancellation of most of Mozambique's IDA debt
in line with the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (2005) further easing fiscal constraints to the
country.

The overall future development of Mozambique, which includes the education sector, is outlined
in three critical documents: the PARPA; the Economic and Social Plan, which outlines each
year's plan of action; and the Annual Progress Report, which monitors implementation
performance. The PARPA with a Performance Assessment Framework is aligned to the Bank's
Africa Action Plan. All of these documents support progress toward MDGs. The implementation
of these plans is monitored closely by GOM and the donor community.

FASe is now fully operational and will be connected to the Sisterma Integrado de Administracao
Finnanceira do Estado (SISTAFE or Integrated Financial Management Information System),
which is the new budget treasury management accounting and internal control system. SISTAFE
is intended to make budgeting and accounting in the department more timely and efficient.

GOM has prepared its second strategic plan (ESSP II) for the education sector. With full
government ownership and commitment to developing the education sector, the gains made in
ESSP are very likely to be sustained. Furthermore there is evidence that the quality dimensions
that were not addressed in ESSP have become the focus of attention in ESSP II. The "moderate"
rating is given as improving quality will be a challenge for GOM and will depend upon
enhancing provincial level commitment and accountability. In addition, the development of the
education sector could be effected by the prevalence of HIV/AIDs.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank



                                                  13

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Lending: Bank performance in lending is rated moderately satisfactory. To summarize the earlier
discussion (Section 7.1) at the time of project preparation the importance of improving the quality
of education was recognized and the components were a natural progression of those
implemented in previous projects - the Second Education Project, which closed in June 1999 and
the Capacity Building: Human Resources Development Project, which closed in March 2002. The
ESSP, in a critical attempt to incorporate the initial stages of donor support, specified donor
financial commitments for significant quality components of the project. In a post-conflict
environment with multiple donors, this intent to move donor coordination forward was important.
However, without a legal framework, several changes were made in donor support to ESSP,
which constrained the project's ability to improve education quality. The extensive sector analysis
during preparation also did not adequately analyze the implications of limited government
capacity and multiple donor involvement.

The range of reactions to project preparation and design from the point of view of government
and donors is pertinent to assessing Bank performance. On the part of the government, it was
financially critical for the Bank to move forward with this project as donors discussed various
options for funding education reform. Donors, though, were mixed in their reactions to Bank
performance during project preparation. While some donors felt that the Bank was preparing this
project without waiting for adequate donor coordination, others felt that this was inevitable as
they could not keep pace with Mozambique's funding requirements.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The QSA5 rated the supervision of ESSP satisfactory in 2002. The supervision of ESSP took
place through meetings, which included both donor and government (Comite Paritario de
Acompanhamento) and RARs. The RAR was an occasion for provincial authorities and
department heads to meet and discuss the action plan and achievements in education. As
identified in QSA5, the project team has dealt skillfully with a situation that was often beyond
their control. The new government's request to regress institutionally to a PIU during the first two
years, was rightly discouraged by Bank staff. To assist project implementation during the first
four years, the project team attempted to initiate significant policy directed activities such
as putting in place a ZIP strategy and developing an action plan for teacher training and
institutional capacity development. Due to the limited success of these attempts and surplus funds
from other donors, there is an exclusive focus on resource intensive interventions including the
DSS, kits for ZIPs, civil works and supplies for training colleges during the last three years of the
project period.

Notwithstanding, it would have been useful for the project team to be more reflective on the
extent to which the quality dimensions would be addressed by the project. In addition, whether
the project needed to be restructured was not sufficiently thought through, especially as some of
the donor funding for components related to quality was not forthcoming. Client reporting on the
status of implementation of the entire program during the RAR, in addition to regular field visits
could have facilitated more effective supervision.



                                                 14

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory as the project was prepared in a post-
conflict environment forcing change in the rules of donor participation in development. ESSP was
designed, prepared and supervised as donors were working out their own involvement with the
education sector and GOM having to redefine its own relationship with donors in this changing
scenario. Both these dimensions were crucial to the implementation of ESSP, but outside the
control of the project team. In fact, the preparation and supervision of this project sustained the
momentum of development in the education sector as evident in the progress made with regard to
several of the development objectives.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Preparation: During preparation, the ownership and commitment of the borrower is clearly
evident. In addition, the borrower's experience with Bank projects honed in while implementing
IDA financed projects for over a decade informed the design of ESSP.

Supervision: Government implementation performance as discussed above was affected by
political economy issues as well as factors outside of their control. The intentions on the part of
government to reinstitute the PIU did delay project implementation. Similarly, reliable and timely
donor support to education as planned was not forthcoming, which also affected several of the
components from being fully implemented. In addition, systematic reporting on the status of
implementation would have been helpful.

Apart from these issues, government personnel and procedures were very supportive and
proactive in the implementation of ESSP. After the initial difficulties with staffing (specifically
for procurement and financial management) were addressed, the civil works component was
implemented smoothly. The DSS was adopted with timeliness and vigor accompanied by detailed
accounting from each school. The government was also proactive in putting together strategies
and projects in higher, vocational, and technical education. Monitoring of physical progress and
financial management in the project is commendable.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Not Applicable

Implementing
Agency          Performance

Ministry of
Education


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall GOM's performance in implementing ESSP is satisfactory. The government assumed full



                                                  15

ownership and commitment to reform in education. Significant landmarks include the preparation
of country-wide and time-bound plans and objectives for the education sector (ESSP I and II).
The project was implemented in an environment of financial constraint and uncertainty. GOM
navigated this situation with skill and a willingness to comply with donor requirements as well as
work with the limitations of its own system. The process of building consensus and putting
together strategic plans for different areas cannot be underestimated and requires considerable
effort and commitment. Strategic plans for teacher training and curriculum were in place toward
the end of the project.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

1. Improvements in the quality of education require more specificity in terms of targets and more
attention during implementation. Quality objectives are critical and must play an equally
significant role as the access objective. While GOM has clear and realistic goals for access and
enrollments, there is need for clarity in measurement and reporting of targets for improving
quality such as completion and repetition. Defining and clarifying these targets especially at the
provincial level rather than at the country level would provide more structure and direction to
program activities.

2. There is need for the appropriate use of the SWAp approach. There was persistent confusion
between ESSP as a government program including contributions from other donors and the ESSP
as an IDA credit supporting the Government program. In order to maintain the holistic approach
subscribed to in the SWAp, it is necessary for the program to be accompanied by a corresponding
and shared legal and financing arrangement that includes all donors or clear requirements for
government evaluation and reporting on the whole program. SWAps also require substantial time
on the ground working with donors and additional financial resources to ensure a proper mix of
skills in the supervision team.

3. Donor funding will be better harmonized if the shared financing arrangement incorporates a
vision for the development of the sector. The FASe is a funding mechanism and does not
necessarily represent a shared strategy for improvements in the education sector. The diversity in
academic perspectives and goals among donors is causing fragmentation and lack of
systematicity in government planning and programming. A shared donor strategy for the
education sector under girding the financial support provided through the FASe would be helpful
for GOM. The new ESSP II promises to provide such a framework.

4. Issues related to the development of secondary education require specific attention. The
interventions represented by the project components do not seem to provide sufficient distinctive
and relevant support to secondary education. The interventions such as curriculum revision and
the DSS are focused on elementary education. If secondary education is to improve,
concerted attention is required for the specific needs of secondary education, especially for girls.

5. There is need for Bank and donors to adopt creative and structured strategies for developing
consensus. GOM's effort at implementing ESSP was delayed due to the difficulties in
developing strategies and action plans. In order to assist government in this area, donors provided
consultant reports based on which a shared strategy was to evolve, and as evident in the project,
this did not happen. To promote more ownership and consensus, it will be useful for Bank staff to
develop alternative skills at facilitating dialogue and sustaining negotiations such as
consultations, focus group discussions, study tours, and joint authorship of background reports.


                                                  16

6. Mainstreaming of project implementation requires fine tuning and reorganization. The transfer
of responsibility for implementation from a PIU to MEC was timely and necessary. However, as
the incomplete reporting indicates, it was a challenge for MEC to monitor the program as so
many departments of education were involved. There is need for a dedicated unit in MEC to
analyze policy, the status of implementation and project outcomes and to work across the various
departments of education.

7. The importance of addressing the HIV/AIDS issue. Although HIV/AIDS was not mentioned in
the project design, this issue was incorporated into the program given the critical and proven role
of education as a social vaccine in preventing HIV infection.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                 17

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objective of the Education Sector Strategy Program was to provide increased
and equitable access to higher quality education that would be instrumental in promoting
economic and social development in the country.

The key performance indicators are:
1. Increased proportion of students passing key primary and lower secondary examinations: (i)
Grade 5 from 54 percent to 74 percent; (ii) Grade 7 from 37 percent to 60 percent; and (iii) Grade
10 from 33 percent to 55 percent.
2. A reduction in the average repetition by half for both primary and lower secondary levels.
3. An increase in gross enrollment rates (GERs): (i) Grade 1-5 from 67 percent to 86 percent; (ii)
Grades 6-7 from 5 percent to 30 percent.
4. An increase in enrollment in schools and, in districts where classrooms are built equivalent to
at least 75 percent of the new capacity created.
5. Implementation of at least 80 percent of the work program for each year, measured by physical
targets, budget spent and routine activities.
6. Achievement of the agreed rate of decentralization of management to the provinces and
districts as defined in the schedule to be included in the Program Implementation Manual.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

No revisions.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                      Original Target      Formally    Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline Value        Values (from        Revised
                                          approval          Target       Completion or Target

                                         documents)         Values               Years

Indicator 1 :   Increased proportion of students passing key primary and lower secondary
                examinations.
Value           EP1 Grade 5 =        EP1 Grade 5 =
(quantitative 54%; EP2 Grade 7 75%; EP2 Grade 7                       EP1 Grade 5 = 74%; EP2

or              = 37%; ESG1          = 60%; ESG1                      Grade 7 = 73%; ESG1 Grade

Qualitative)    Grade 10 = 33%       Grade 10 = 55%                   10 = 58%

Date achieved 08/02/1999             06/30/2004                       06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Targets were achieved, however, the low completion rates are a concern.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   A reduction in the average repetition by half for primary and lower secondary
                education.
Value           EP1 Grade 5 =        EP1 Grade 5 =                    EP1 Grade 5 = 20.8%
(quantitative 25%; EP2 Grade 7 12.5%; EP2 Grade                       (2004); 11.1% (2005); EP2
or              = 31%; ESG1          7 = 21.7%; ESG1                  Grade 7 = 20.3% (2004);
Qualitative)    Grade 10 = 34%       Grade 10 = 17%                   5.6% (2005); ESG1 Grade



                                                 18

                                                                    10 = 25.1% (2004); 19.3%
                                                                    (2005).
Date achieved 08/02/1999          06/30/2004                        06/30/2006
Comments     Targets were surpassed in the last year (2004-05). The sudden decrease in one
(incl. %     year needs to be examined more carefully in terms of whether it is a realistic
achievement) reflection of learning levels.
Indicator 3 : Rate of decentralization of management to the provinces and districts.
Value
(quantitativeCentralized          A more                            Some financial

or           educational          decentralized                     decentralization has taken

Qualitative) administration       system.                           place.

Date achieved 08/02/1999          06/30/2004                        06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %     Decentralization has begun and will be continued in ESSP II.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                 Original Target Values      Formally          Actual Value

  Indicator    Baseline Value         (from approval          Revised           Achieved at

                                        documents)             Target         Completion or
                                                               Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 : An increase in gross enrollment rates.
Value
(quantitative EP1 Grade 5 =     EP1 Grade 5 = 86% EP2                     EP1 Grade 5 = 131%
or            67% EP2 Grade     Grade 7 = 30%                             EP2 Grade 7 = 47%
Qualitative)  7 = 15%

Date achieved 08/02/1999        06/30/2004                                06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      The achievements in enrollment are phenomenal especially when the Net

achievement)  Enrollment rate for EP1 is 83%.

Indicator 2 : An increase in enrollment in the schools and districts where classrooms are built.
              Precise data not available.
Value
(quantitative                   Equivalent to at least 75%                Considering the GERs

or            Not available     of the new capacity                       above, this has been

Qualitative)                    created.                                  achieved.

Date achieved 08/02/1999        06/30/2004                                06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Implementation of at least 80% of the work program for each year

Value         Initial work      By end of project, all                    Achieved during the
(quantitative program was       activities will have been                 last three years of
or            based on the plan completed according to                    project
Qualitative)  of activities.    agreement of the Joint
                                mid-term review of 2002.                  implementation.



                                                19

Date achieved 08/02/1999      06/30/2004                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %     Achieved during the last few years of the project.
achievement)




                                            20

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     21

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


           Components             Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                       (USD M)             (USD M)           Appraisal
TEACHERS' TRAINING                             6.00                   0.10           1.67
PEDAGOGICAL SUPPORT FOR
TEACHERS                                       6.20                   2.70          43.55

CURRICULUM
TRANSFORMATION                                 1.00                   0.60          60.00

LEARNING MATERIALS                             6.40                   1.30          20.31
ASSESSMENT &
EXAMINATIONS                                   0.30                   0.00            .00

DIRECT SUPPORT FOR
SCHOOLS                                        5.00                 12.20          244.00

TRAINING OF SCHOOL
DIRECTORS                                      0.90                   0.00            .00

SCHOOL & CLASSROOM
CONSTR. & REHAB                              31.80                  51.90          163.21

GIRLS EDUCATION INITIATIVE                     4.30                   0.00            .00
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION                           0.30                   0.30         100.00
SPECIAL EDUCATION                              0.00                   0.00
MINED INSTITUTIONAL
CAPACITY                                       8.30                   2.70          32.53

TECHNICAL EDUCATION
STRATEGY                                       0.50                   0.40          80.00

               Total Baseline Cost           71.00                  72.20
Physical Contingencies                         0.00
Price Contingencies                            0.00
               Total Project Costs           71.00
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                   0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                   0.00           0.00
        Total Financing Required             71.00                  72.20



(b) Financing


                                              Appraisal
       Source of Funds            Type of                    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                Cofinancing Estimate (USD
                                                 M)        Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

 Borrower                                            0.00               0.00
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                         71.00               0.00
ASSOCIATION



                                           22

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            23

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

The ESSP based on a SWAp approach had five components of which four received IDA support.
Except for the last two years, there is limited information on the support received from other
donors and the extent to which activities and targets for each component were met. After FASe
was established in 2003 and the expectations of the "Economic and Social Plan Evaluation"
outlined, there is more comprehensive reporting on the components. Overall, the scarcity of
information on component activities and outputs limits the discussion on implementation below.

(1) Quality of education (US$108.5 million; IDA: US25.8 million): This component was to
improve education quality especially repetition and learning and included seven components. Of
the seven sub-components, two components namely the DSS and curriculum transformation were
effectively implemented. The level of implementation of the remaining components was uneven
and the results mixed.

(i) Teacher training (US$24.7million; IDA US$6 million): The implementation of this sub-
component to enhance the capacity of teachers was weak, constrained by the absence of a clear-
cut and shared strategy for teachers' preservice training in the country. The PAD indicates that at
the time of project preparation, GOM was intending to move to a uniform system of presevice
training consisting of 10 years of basic education with one year preservice and one year of
structured inservice training. Only toward the end of the project after numerous workshops and
seminars did the government finally reach consensus on such a strategy. According to the
Economic and Social Plan Evaluation (2004) this strategy was a response to the existing
"fragmented, erratic and incoherent" models of teacher training that had existed until then. The
task of enhancing the capacity of teachers remains a challenge for GOM. For instance, in 2005
about 19,000 untrained teachers were hired to address the increase in enrollment in EP1, almost
doubling the number of untrained teachers.
While GOM negotiated a shared strategy for teacher training, this sub-component expanded and
improved sporadically and unevenly over the project period. 8,563 EP1 teachers were trained at
the Centros de Formacao de Professores Primarios, about 9,901 EP2 teachers at the Institutos
Magisterio Primario (IMAP), and 7,500 teachers received inservice training through the Instituto
de Aperfeicoamento Pedagogico (IAP). 10,180 teachers (about 17 percent of the EP1 teachers)
participated in the inservice training (entitled CRESER) undertaken by DANIDA in 2004. Of the
US$6 million allocated for this component US$139,933 was spent as other donors constructed
five IMAPs and one IAP and rehabilitated continuing education centers (NUFORPES). Distance
learning in the provinces expanded in some of the provinces through IAPs. Project funds
provided for furniture, photocopying machines, computers and motorbikes.

(ii) Pedagogical support for teachers (US$17.7 million; IDA US$ 6.2 million): The project was
to increase the capacity of ZIPs or centers formed with a small number of schools (7 to 15
schools) in a phased manner starting with the weaker provinces. The positioning of ZIPs within a
cluster of schools makes it a significant institution both with regard to facilitating communities to
understand the importance of education and to ensure that schools are sufficiently supported and
monitored. Project funds were to be used to support the national program to enhance 75 percent
of the ZIPs (840) based on the preparation of a ZIP revitalization plan. With an expenditure of
US$2.7 million, basic supplies (bicycles, typewriters, duplicators, glue, note pads, rulers, binding
machine, staplers, scissors, and binders) and 2,500 encyclopedias to the ZIPs were provided. The
absence of dedicated staff, role definitions and task accountability, undoubtedly, constrained the
functioning of this important sub-provincial level institution. There is uniform agreement among
department officials that there is a critical need to establish a legal and institutional framework



                                                  24

for the functioning of ZIPs in order make them effective.

(iii) Curriculum transformation (US47. 1 million; IDA US$1 million): Curriculum revision was
one of the successes of ESSP. With the help of a number of donors and US$.5 million IDA funds,
MEC through the Instituto National de Desenvolvimento de Educacao developed a relevant and
progressive curriculum for Grades 1 to 7. 80 percent of the curriculum is nationally defined while
20 percent is based on the local context (province and district). In order to improve learning and
to limit the adverse effects of automatic promotion in EP1 and EP2, GOM also introduced cycles
of learning. The first cycle comprises of Grades 1 and 2, the second Grades 3, 4 and 5 and the
third Grades 6 and 7. Students are automatically promoted within cycles but can be held back
between cycles if learning is inadequate.
The new curriculum was introduced in the last year (2004-05) of the project in Grades 1, 3 and 6.
The role out of the curriculum in the remaining grades is planned for 2006-07. It is too early to
conclude that the new curriculum has had an impact on improving student knowledge and skill,
thereby lowering repetition rates. It will be important for GOM in ESSP II to monitor the impact
of the curriculum on education quality. Furthermore, there is a need to examine the
appropriateness of the curriculum for the shift system widely operational in Mozambique. In the
province visited for this ICR, there were three or four shifts, significantly shortening instructional
time. A curriculum meant for a regular school day of five to six hours would not work for a
school day consisting of four hours.

(iv) Learning materials (US$39.9 million; IDA US$6.4 million): The credit was to be used in the
supply of textbooks and instructional material, improve book distribution and develop
commercial textbook publishing. Supported by bilateral donors and IDA (US$1.3 million) and
based on the revised curriculum, a complete set of textbooks for Grade 1 to 6 was prepared. The
contracting for the textbooks is consistent with Bank operational guidelines on textbooks and
reading materials. The paper weight used in textbook publishing was 18 grams and illustrations
used five instead of two colors. In spite of these reforms, several issues remain however, with
regards to textbook publishing and production. The initial intention for this activity was for
provinces to choose from several sets of textbooks. Copyrights in this case would remain with the
publishers for a period of three years. MEC, considering the logistical and financial management
issues surrounding the production and distribution of multiple textbooks, decided on one set of
textbooks. GOM is concerned that the copyright for the single set of GOM textbooks now
belongs to a single external publisher. The government is in the process of regaining copyright.
Second, the commercialization of textbook publishing, which was originally intended to reduce
the cost of textbooks by introducing competition, has not happened. Instead, the cost of textbooks
according to government officials is now about ten times higher than those produced before
ESSP. Since the GOM introduced the policy of free textbooks, this cost will increase per pupil
costs for MEC. Third, in order to contain costs, MEC orders new textbooks once in three years
with the expectation that existing textbooks will be recycled. Visits to schools indicate that this
assumption may not be true. About half the students did not have textbooks. Reasons for this
could be that the improved quality of textbooks still cannot withstand intensive use by students
and/or children do not return them to be reused in the following year. To improve the quality of
education, without the availability of alternative reading and reference material, it is critical that
every student has a textbook. In ESSP II, it will be important for GOM to revisit the issue of
quality, quantity, cost and sustainability with regards to the printing and distribution of textbooks.

(v) Assessment and examinations (US$2. 4 million; IDA US$.3 million): In-class evaluations and
end of cycle examinations were to be improved in addition to introducing an assessment system
to monitor quality. There is no reporting on this sub-component and GOM informed the ICR



                                                  25

mission that no work was undertaken. It is to be included in ESSP II.

(vi) Direct support for schools (US$13.6 million; IDA US$5 million): As far as Bank funds are
concerned, the financing and impact of this sub-component could be described as the most
successful. The US$5 million allocated for this component increased to US$12.2 million. A
"School quality improvement fund," set up at the school level, provided kits to school committees
made up of teachers, parents, and department officials. Each school received US$200 per school
to be used for the purchase of school supplies chosen from a list of eligible items such as
notebooks, pencils, pens, chalk, erasers, rulers, paper, cabinets, transportation and delivery costs.
A social marketing strategy with the systematic dissemination of information to schools and
parents using different channels was adopted to support this intervention. Information included
authorization, purchasing rules, internal forms required and descriptions of the various items
available. DSS provided the much needed basic supplies to schools, energized school councils,
encouraged school participation and honed in skills of purchasing and record keeping.
Starting in March 2003 with the training of provincial and district education officials, MEC
distributed over 8,000 school grants each year. In the second phase of the program 8,100 EP1
schools were benefited and in the third phase, 8400. The subsequent phase of the program to
disburse grants on a composite school index, which took enrollment, school shifts, classes, and
distance into consideration as well as regional disparities is to be implemented in ESSP II. Visits
to schools indicated that while schools had received kits it was not commensurate with the size of
the school population or the needs of the school. For example, there would be three or four games
for a school with about 1500 students. It will be important for ESSP II to analyze this
intervention and to estimate the extent to which the purchased items are indeed having an impact
on improving the quality of education.

(vii) School director training (US$3.1 million; IDA US$.9 million): According to GOM, 70
percent of the school directors have participated in training supported by other donors. Deputy
directors and administrators are also receiving training. A School Director's manual is also being
prepared. There was, however, limited clarity on the type of training and its impact.

(2) Access to education (US$193.3 million; IDA US$36.4 million): This component with six
sub-components was intended to increase access and ensure equity in the distribution of schools.
Of the four sub-components, expanding access to education was effectively implemented.

(i) School and classroom construction and rehabilitation (US$177.2 million; IDA US$31.8
million): This component with an IDA expenditure of US$51.9 increased access and equity in the
distribution of schools. 12000 primary school classrooms with toilets and water were to be
constructed during the project. Only 650 classrooms were constructed. GOM decided it would be
more useful to utilize IDA funds for the construction of secondary schools rather than primary
school classrooms. GOM continued the task of increasing access in EP1, EP2 and ESG1. The
phenomenal growth of schools across these three levels is commendable. In EP1, the number of
schools rose from 6605 to 8696, EP2 from 448 to 1320, and ES1 from 82 to 156. Therefore, the
shift of IDA funding to the construction of ESG2 schools was reasonable and necessary. The
issue of access to ESG1 and ESG2 will require continued focus in ESSP II.
Instead of 5 ESG1 schools, 6 ESG2 schools were constructed and instead of 2 ESG2 schools to
be rehabilitated 6 were rehabilitated. In terms of the construction itself, there was an
understandable shift in the attention of the government to construct more visible and impressive
structures in response to the growing demand for secondary education. This was in contrast to the
initial objective of building smaller and more dispersed schools and as a result fewer
communities benefited from the construction program. The schools visited were indeed



                                                  26

large, well designed and constructed. Overall the number of ESG2 increased from 13 to 35. Of
the 373 staff houses that were to be constructed for primary schools with project funds, 236 were
completed. However, an additional 69 staff houses not initially planned was constructed for
ESG1 schools. The task to rehabilitate 12 dormitories was not undertaken.

(ii) Girls' education initiatives (US$8.9 million; IDA US$4.3.million): No activities were
undertaken with regard to girls' enrollment, which was to include the provision of scholarships
and enhancing community awareness of this issue. Though no explicit reference to a gender
sensitive curriculum, this was part of the curriculum reform that took place for the whole country.
Notwithstanding, the limited impact of the program on improving girls' participation is a concern.

(iii) Nonformal education (US$5.5 million; IDA US$.3 million): GOM approved a Literacy,
Adult Education and Non-formal education strategy in November 2001. The first phase approved
in 2001-02 was implemented as a pilot in three provinces and these efforts were expanded in the
second phase. According to GOM, Bank assistance to adult education was to provide diagnostic
and strategic advice. US$.2 million of IDA funds was spent supporting curriculum development
and technical equipment.

(iv) Special education (US$3.1 million; IDA US$.9 million): The project did not implement this
sub-component, which involved developing and testing a model for the education of children
with special needs including teacher training, developing instructional tools and construction.

(3) MINED institutional capacity (US$325.4 million; IDA US$8.3 million): This component
with four subcomponents was to improve the administrative and management capacity.
According to MEC staff, reasons for not implementing this component was that the consultant
report on the organization of capacity building activities was unable to provide a relevant and
appropriate roadmap for activities.

(i) Organizational structure and decentralization (US$318.5 million; IDA US$4.1 million):
Except for some capacity building of MEC, the impression among government officials is that
this subcomponent was not fully implemented. Seminars on education at various levels, school
mapping exercises, establishing information systems and policy changes with regard to teachers
and other staff as referred to in the PAD did not take place. US$.8 million of IDA funds was
expended in the project.

(ii) Policy and planning (US$1.6 million; IDA US$1 million): This subcomponent was partially
implemented with the utilization of US$.3 million IDA funds. The capacity in MEC to analyze,
monitor and evaluate indicators of education performance has significantly improved over the
project period. Though there was less emphasis on assessing the connections between
interventions, outputs and outcomes crucial for understanding project impact. Funds were to be
used to improve parent and community participation, which did not take place. In addition, there
was limited capacity development at the provincial, district and school levels. In order for GOM
to progress on quality indicators such as learning and retention, it will be critical to develop the
capacities and skills for effective and efficient policy analysis, planning, administration and
monitoring of education at the provincial and sub-provincial levels.

(iii) Financial management (US$3.1 million; IDA US$2.2 million): Decentralized financial
management was to be developed in the program. Again, this subcomponent was partially
implemented with some improvement in the capacity of provincial level departments to plan and
create budgets. IDA US$1.7 million of IDA funds was utilized.



                                                  27

(iv) Monitoring and evaluation (US$2.2 million; IDA US$1 million): The subcomponent to
strengthen monitoring and evaluation was implemented to some extent with an expenditure of
US$.8 million. Procurement and financial management expertise was developed through the
hiring of skilled personnel in the project. Detailed information was provided on IDA funding of
project components and agreed upon development objectives indicators. Again, the system of
monitoring and evaluation at the provincial level will require considerable attention in ESSP II.

(4) Technical Education Strategy (US$42.1 million; IDA US$.5 million): This component was
successfully implemented with US$.4 million utilized. Based on the sector work entitled "Skills
Development in Mozambique: Issues and Options" the project entitled "Technical and Vocation
Education Training Project" was prepared. This project became effective June 28, 2006.

Additional financing: Two additional items not identified in the PAD were financed by ESSP.
First, the HIV/AIDS and Education national workshop. This critical intervention accelerated
GOM's response to the aids crisis focusing on the school as the center to combat the disease.
Activities included the planning of appropriate policies and action plans for managing the crisis,
preventing infection, and ensuring the protection and care of orphans and vulnerable children.
Second, IDA funds supported the implementation of a de-worming program for EP1 children.
De-worming raises the health status of students, which in turn improves school performance.




                                                  28

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

The PAD for ESSP argued for IDA support for education based on the criteria of efficiency and
equity. Basic education is supposed to increase productivity, lower fertility rates, improve the
health of the population especially infants and increase social cohesion. While it is difficult to
make direct correlations as ESSP was not fully implemented, improved productivity is evident in
the increase in GDP from 2. 9 percent in 1999 to 5 percent in 2005 and the increase sustained
GDP growth rate of 8 percent. The attached table summarizes improvements made in health
indicators. In education intra-province inequity is also being addressed through the focus on
weaker provinces.

Health Indicators for Mozambique

Indicators                                                         1997 2003
Under five mortality rate (per 1000 live births)                    219    178
Maternal mortality rate (per 100000 live births)                   1000 408
Life expectancy at birth                                           42.3 46.3
Children immunized against measles                                 57.5 76.7
Infant mortality                                                    146    101
Fertility rate (births per woman)                                   6.3     5
Births attended by skilled professionals                           44.2 47.7

The benefit-incidence of education can be judged by the reduction in poverty head count from 69
percent in 1997 to 54 percent in 2003. A large part of this decrease is due to the increase in
individual wages as a result of additional years of schooling. It is estimated that an extra year of
education increases wages by about 3 percent in the agriculture sector and between 5 and 15
percent in non-farm work. The following table provides the increases in the rate of return
between 1996 and 2002 for graduates at the secondary and higher secondary levels.



Simple Rates of Return to education, predicted monthly income (USD 2002 prices)

Level of education                      Year        Male        Female
EP2 and ESG1                            1996        20. 2       17. 7
                                        2002        29. 5       18. 9
ESG2                                     1996       33. 7       29. 6
                                        2003        52. 5       33. 7

The internal efficiency of the system based on the number years taken to complete EP1 and EP2
appears to have improved based on the improvement in repetition rate. However, this needs to be
monitored closely in ESSP II as more robust calculations of dropout, transition, repetition and
completion become available. More importantly, the efficiency of the system will have to be
judged in the future on whether students have acquired the required knowledge and skill.




                                                 29

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Noel Kulemeka          Senior Economist       AFTH1
Isabel Duarte A.
Mutambe                Program Assistant      EASUR

Joao Tinga             Financial Management
                       Analyst                AFTFM

Alexandria Valerio     Sr Education Spec.     LCSHE


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived         DO              IP         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   05/20/1999             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.00
2   12/22/1999             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              1.00
3   05/18/2000             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              1.22
4   10/30/2000             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              1.35
5   12/05/2000             Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            1.52
6   03/01/2001             Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            1.52
7   10/23/2001             Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            2.68
8   03/05/2002             Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            3.44
9   08/02/2002             Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            6.00
10 11/24/2002              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              8.65
11 05/25/2003              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             15.70
12 11/19/2003              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             22.78
13 12/12/2003              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             23.68
14 05/28/2004              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             30.99
15 12/01/2004              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             42.07
16 05/12/2005              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             47.65
17 12/13/2005              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             61.10
18 06/15/2006              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             71.80


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                               No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY92                                                           0.36
                    FY93                                                           3.02


                                           30

                FY94                      13.23
                FY95                     130.93
                FY96                     252.92
                FY97                      64.01
                FY98                       3.89
                FY99                       0.00
                FY00                       0.00
                FY01                       0.00
                FY02                       0.00
                FY03                       0.00
                FY04                       0.00
                FY05                       0.00
                FY06                       0.00
                        Total:            468.36
Supervision/ICR
                FY92                       0.00
                FY93                       0.00
                FY94                       3.26
                FY95                       3.12
                FY96                       0.00
                FY97                      29.44
                FY98                     204.70
                FY99                     112.80
                FY00               68    184.83
                FY01               43    178.69
                FY02               53    115.99
                FY03              48      84.63
                FY04              35      87.07
                FY05              30      27.64
                FY06              22      87.07
                FY07                8      0.00
                        Total:    307    1119.24




                            31

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings              Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:  Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:      Satisfactory




                                              32

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       33

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  34

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                           Summary of GOM's evaluation of the ESSP

Overall, the IDA credit ESSP significantly contributed to the achievement of development
objectives as measured by access, quality, and equity in primary and secondary education.
Further, ESSP contributed to capacity building both at the MEC central level and at the
decentralized levels.

Context of Harmonization and Alignment:
An important feature of this project is the fact that the ESSP project was designed in the context
of establishing a sector wide-approach and a coordination mechanism between MEC and the
donors. The Government agreed with donors, civil society and agencies and institutions that all
1999-2003 funds for the education sector, including the IDA Credit, would be committed towards
the implementation of the activities described in the ESSP. The education sector established a
funding mechanism that uses IDA procurement and financial management procedures entitled
FASe in 1999. However, FASe only became fully functional in 2003. Even though the Bank was
one of the signatories to the original Memo of Understanding for the FASe, Bank funds were
never pooled with FASe and it continued to operate in parallel project financing.

This created some weaknesses during the implementation of ESSP but at the same time allowed
the necessary flexibility and more importantly allowed for the development of greater internal
capacity in MEC, Directorate of Finance and Administration and in Provincial Directorates. At
the same time the slow start of the implementation of IDA funds brought gains to both GOM and
the partners in terms of policy dialogue with GOM and between partners. It is revealing that
throughout the process it was as much a learning experience for MEC as for the partners.

The IDA Credit of 71 million USD available to contribute towards the 5 years of the ESSP
covered approximately 10% of the total ESSP costs. Other financing agencies and the
Government committed to the remaining part. Other programs or funding agencies contributing
to the ESSP are ADB II, III and IV, IDB I, FASE, DANIDA, RNE, PASE, JICA, KfW and
various NGO implemented projects.

Civil Works Results and lessons learnt:
The results from the various programs for civil works between 1999 and 2005 are described in
detail in the report but the main ones are the construction of 6,000 primary school classrooms
(out of which 650 by the IDA Credit) and the construction or rehabilitation of 30 secondary
schools and IMAPs (out of which 12 by the IDA Credit). Comparing the results with the initial
objectives show that only a small proportion of the number of schools that were included in the
ESSP have been constructed and that only the total number of Secondary Schools constructed is
more or less the same as what was planned. Comparing the results of the IDA Credit, a similar
observation is made, with additional works done in Secondary education and less work done in
primary and teacher's education. The results and costs however are related to the budget
available, which show some difficulties that were present from the very start of the program.
Some lessons learned are presented below.

Definition of responsibilities: When different financing agencies are contributing to the same
project (not part of a funding pool), as is the case with the ESSP, it would be useful to indicate in
the PAD how responsibilities are defined. The PAD reflects sector support, but the DCA
contradicts this approach by earmarking specific activities to be implemented under the IDA



                                                  35

Credit. These fixed allocations to certain components and even to specific activities like the civil
works, made it necessary to reallocate funds in order to address changed needs.

Institutional arrangements: Define institutional arrangements with clear responsibilities for
different institutions. Especially considering procurement and implementation, if not within one
office, there must be close collaboration and firm agreements on responsibilities, communication,
and information and so on. It is recommended to keep these two activities separate because
procurement and coordination of implementation are two different specialties and because a
separation increases internal control.
Cooperation: Cooperation between directorates/departments involved in implementation is
sometimes problematic and has great influence on processes and on the results. The MEC
reorganization gives possibilities for a closer cooperation, also with other directorates.
Complex works  consultants: For the implementation of complex works the use of consultants
to be increased, meaning more responsibility to consultant firms (during supervision), combined
with improved monitoring activities, but also involve consultants for example to do the tender
evaluation.
Monitoring capacity complex works: For future complex works, projects being implemented
using a similar modality, it will important to recruit a Project Manager to oversee the work.
Supervising consultants must send site instructions for improvements and request for corrective
action by the contractors. Send warning letters to contractors and if issues not addressed, cancel
contract.
Non-performing contractors: Prepare a black-list of contractors that should not be contracted,
with clear justifications and proof of previous non-performance. As tender procedures often
require that the lowest bid is contracted, deviations to that rule should be easily justifiable.
Small works implementation: The implementation of small works, as set in process in 2005,
should be more decentralized and look into increased flexibility for execution and
implementation (materials, adaptable designs, community contribution). Coordination and
monitoring should continue from central level.
Payments: Delays in payments to be avoided as small contractors will have difficulties in
continuing the works and as large contractors can use it as an excuse when not performing, which
makes it hard to apply penalties.
Furniture: Results shown in the timing of furniture delivery and conclusion of construction works
with the secondary schools are promising. Long and unpredictable delays in the execution of
works, as apparent with primary school construction, make this timing more difficult, as supply
contracts may be for a large number of schools, each being completed at a different time.
Supervision missions: Bank supervision missions took place on a regular basis but only two
included architects to look into the civil works component. In spite of the fact that MEC had
contracted professionals in the field of civil works, it would be beneficial if an architect or
physical planner were involved in each supervision mission.
Progress reports: Except for financial reports, no regular progress reports were prepared by MEC
to be sent to the funding agencies. It is recommended that MEC prepares regular reports to
monitor progress and control quality. The Bank should also insist on reporting and more
appropriate progress control.

Evaluation of Quality Components
As stated earlier, about US$50 million out of the total US$71 million credit was in support of
construction components. The quality components received relatively less support from the
credit. This was due primarily to two reasons. The first reason was that IDA credit was used more
flexibly as compared to the other partners' support. Thus, in areas where other partners are
supporting or interested in supporting, IDA funds were used last if at all. Second, many of the
quality components, at the time of design, lack agreed policies and strategies. In particular,



                                                  36

teacher training was an area of concern. Final policy on teacher training was only finalized in
2005.

In 1999 the implementation of the ESSP credit was yet considerably slow. Some activities have
been gradually finalized, as for example, the definition of the roles and functions of ZIP
Coordinators, the role of DAF as the executor of ESSP, the curriculum transformation with
technical assistance from UNESCO. The Joint Mid Term Review considered the positive effort
of the Government and partners to increase access to education. In terms of Quality of Education
it is necessary to elaborate the teacher training strategy.

Recommendations were proposed for the 4 components in order to increase access to and to
improve the quality of education. In 2003 the mission observed:
      The increase in the proportion of students passing 5th, 7th and 10th grade;
      The increased gross enrolment rate, the retention and proportion of girls in EP1 and EP2
(first and second primary school);
      Improving the proportion of female teachers; and
       The teacher/ pupil ratio at EP1, EP2 and ESG1 (first level secondary school) level didn't
improve.
In 2004 and 2005 the Mission observed that the Direct Support for Schools was carried out
satisfactorily with positive results.

Project results
The first positive result is that with the construction and rehabilitation of primary and secondary
schools, ZIPs and training centers, this program has had a significant impact on the student's
access to school due to the increased capacity of the teaching institutions, as well as the
improvement of the conditions of the primary teacher training institutes (IMAPs). The second
positive result is that the Quality of Education component, the Direct Support for Schools and
ZIP revitalization contributed to motivate students, teachers and parents who participate in the
School Councils.

Also, it is possible to observe some improvement in the completion rate, in the reduction of the
repetition and drop out rates in the primary education, and in the opportunities of admission to
secondary schools. Finally, enrollment rate has expanded especially at EP1 and EP2 level.
However, inequalities among regions remain pronounced and gender related inequality in
education persists in many parts of the country. Repetition rates continue to be high, average
class size is increasing and the proportion of qualified trained teachers is declining. This allied to
the fact that schools continue in precarious conditions make it difficult to make use of active
methodologies.




                                                  37

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    38

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documents
Project Appraisal Document and Legal Agreements
Project Status Reports/Implementation Status Reports Numbers 1 to 16
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, November 18-December 14, 2001.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, Joint Mid-Term Review, April 2002.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, Financial Simulation Model, June 17-22,
2002.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, Education for All, Fast Track Initiative,
October 4, 2002.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, Education for All, Fast Track Initiative, March
10, 2003.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, July 25, 2003
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, Direct support to schools, Field Report from
Cabo Delgado Province, July 25 , 2003.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, September 21-October 8, 2003.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, February 2-March 5, 2004.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, November 8-27, 2004.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, October 25, 2005.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, April 2006.
Mozambique Education Sector Strategic Program, July 2006.
Government of Mozambique Documents
Government of Mozambique. Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty (2001-2005).
Maputo. April 2001.
Government of Mozambique. Expenditure Review, Maputo. November 2002.
Government of Mozambique. Review of the Economic and Social Plan of 2004. Maputo. June
2005
Government of Mozambique. Pre-evaluation Assessment. Civil Works Component. March 2006
Government of Mozambique. Pre-evaluation Assessment. Capacity Building Components. July
2006
Relevant Documents and Reports
World Bank. Implementation Completion Report. Second Education Project. Washington DC.
1999.
Heltberg, Rasmus, Kenneth Simler and Finn Tarp. Public Spending and Poverty in Mozambique.
Washington DC. June 2001
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. Higher Education. Washington DC
World Bank. Implementation Completion Report. Capacity Building: Human Resources
Development Project. Washington DC. 2002.
World Bank. Africa Region. Cost and Financing of Education. Opportunities and Obstacles for
Expanding and improving educat ion in Mozambique. Working Paper Series. Washington DC.



                                             39

July 2003.
World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy, Washington DC. October 20, 2003.
World Bank. Mozambique Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Annual Progress Report. Report
number 29156. Washington DC. June 2004.
World Bank. Human Development, AFCO2. Mozambique Skills Development in Mozambique,
Issues and Options. Washington DC. Augu st 2004.
World Bank. Mozambique Poverty and Social Impact Analysis. Report number 29423.
Washington DC. January 2005.
World Bank PREM. Mozambique Country Economic Memorandum. Washington DC. June 2005
World Bank. Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Progress Report, Washington DC. June 10,
2005.
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. Technical and Vocational Education and Training
Project. Washington DC. February 2 006.
Policy, Planning and Management of Rural Primary Teachers in Mozambique, Background paper
prepared for the World Bank work shop in Lesotho, April 2005.
World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, Washington DC. February 2006.
World Bank. From Schooling Outcomes to Learning Outcomes. An Unfinished Agenda.
Independent Evaluation Group. Washington D C. 2006.




                                            40

MAP




       41

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 33451R1

            30 E                                                                                                                35 E                                                                                                      40 E

10 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10 S


                                                                                                                           LakeLake                                  T A N Z A N I A                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MtwaraMtwara

                                                                                                                           Malawi
                                                                                                                           Malawi


          MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mocimboa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MuedaMueda            da Praia




                                                                                                                                                                                            Lugenda
                                                                                                                                 MetangulaMetangula                                                                         C A B O

                                                                                                                                                                 N I A S S A                               Messalo    D E L G A D O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pemba

                                                                                      MALAWIMALAWI                                               LichingaLichinga
                                                                                                                                                                                       MarrupaMarrupa
                                                                                                                                                                                                      q   u e             MontepuezMontepuez

                                                                                                                                                                                               b     i
                                                                      To
                                                                      To                                                                               CaturCatur                          m            u                      Lrio
                                                                   ChipataChipata                      To
                                                                                                       To                                                                                a           a
             Z A M B I A                                                                   Lilongwe
                                                                                           Lilongwe                                                                                            e
                                                                                                                                                                                  o  z       t
                                                                        MualadziMualadzi                                                                                M                l a
                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                        To                                           P                                                                       Nacala
                        To
                        To                                                                                                          Mangoche
                                                                                                                                    Mangoche                                                                      N A M P U L A
                       Petauke
                       Petauke                                                                                                                                                 CuambaCuamba
                                                                                  FurancungoFurancungo                                                                                                  RibuRibu
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ribu
15 S                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                 To
           To
           To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15 S
                                                                                                                           ZombaZomba
          LusakaLusaka                      FngoFngo
                                            Fngo                                                                                                                                         Montes Namule
                                                                                                                                                                                           Montes Namule           Nampula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nampula                                  Moambique
                                           Lago de             T E T E                                                                                                                     (2,419 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                           (2,419 m)
                                     Cahora Bassa
                           ZumboZumbo                               SongoSongo    Zambeze                                                                                      Guru
                                                                                                                                                                               Guru
                                                                                                                                                                               Guru
                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                   To                                                                 Alto Molcue
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Alto Molcue
                                                                                                                                 BlantyreBlantyre
                                                                                                         MoatizeMoatize
                                                                                                                                                                 MilangeMilange                                         Ligonha
                                                                                                      Tete
                                                                                                       ete
                                                                                                                                                                      Licungo     Z A M B  Z I A                                            Angoche


                                                                                         ChangaraChangara
                                                                                                                                                                        MocubaMocuba
                                                                      To
                                                                      To
                                                                    Mutoko
                                                                    Mutoko

                                                                                                                           SenaSena                                  NamacurraNamacurra                     Pebane



      Z I M B A B W E                                                                   CatandicaCatandica                                             Zambeze                         Quelimane


                                                                                          GorogosaGorogosa                            InhamingaInhaminga
                                                                     To
                                                                     To
                                                                  HarareHarare                                       S O F A L A
                                                                                          Chimoio
                                                                                          Chimoio                                                                                                          INDIAN OCEAN
                                                                To
                                                                To                 MANICAMANICA                                  i n
                                                       MasvingoMasvingo
                                                                                                                          la
                                                                  Monte Binga
                                                                  Monte Binga                                            P          Beira
20 S                                                                (2,438 m)
                                                                     (2,438 m)
                                                                     (2,436                                             e                                                                                                                                          20 S

                                                                    To
                                                                    To                   Buzi                          u
                                                               MasvingoMasvingo
                                                                                   EspungaberaEspungabera           i q
                                                                                                            b
                                                                                                          m                            Nova Mambone

                                                                                         Save            a
                                                                                                        z
                                              To
                                              To                                                                                        Inhassro
                                            Rutenga
                                            Rutenga                                                    o
                                                                                                      M                                           Vilanculos
                                                      ChicualacualaChicualacuala                                                                                                                      0     50       100       150  200 Kilometers
                                                                                      MachalaMachala

                              To
                              To
                             MessinaMessina                                                INHAMBANE
                                                                                           INHAMBANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0             50         100            150 Miles
                                                                                            ChiguboChigubo
                                                MapaiMapai              G A Z A

      S O U T H                                                 Limpopo                                   Changane                                                                                      MOZAMBIQUE
                                                               MassingirMassingir
      A F R I C A                                                                                                                                   Inhambane
                                                                                                                       PandaPanda

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                       GuijaGuija                                                     Inharrime
                                                                                                      ChibitoChibito                                                                                                  PROVINCE CAPITALS

25 S                                                 MAPUTOMAPUTO                                                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                              25S
                                                To
                                                To                                                      Xai-Xai
                                             NelspruitNelspruit                                                                                    This map was produced by                                           RIVERS
                                                                                   Manhica                                                         the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                   World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                 MoambaMoamba                                                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                   colors, denominations and
                                                       Matela                    MAPUTO                                                            any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                   on this map do not imply, on                                       RAILROADS
                                                To
                                                To                                                                                                 the part of The World Bank
                                             MbabaneMbabane                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                   legal status of any territory,
                          SWAZILANDSWAZILAND                                                                                                       or any endorsement or                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                   Zitundo                                                         a c c e p t a n c e         o f s u c h
                                                                                                                                                   boundaries.
            30 E                                                                                                                35 E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NOVEMBER 2006

