Document of
'rhe World Bank
Report No: 17653-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED INTERIM TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 56.8 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR AN
ORISSA HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 4, 1998
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1998)
Currency Unit = Rupee
Rupees 38.6 = US$1.0
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDMO           Chief District Medical Officer
CHC            Community Health Center
DFID           Department for International Development (UK)
DFW            Directorate of Family Welfare
DHS            Directorate of Health Services
DME            Directorate of Medical Education
DOHFW          Department of Health and Family Welfare
GOI            Government of India
GOO            Government of Orissa
GSDP           Gross State Domestic Product
HMIS           Health Management Information System
IDA            International Development Association
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
ITF            Interim Trust Fund or Interim Fund
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MOHFW          Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
O&M            Operations and Maintenance
PHC            Primary Health Center
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PMC            Project Management Cell
PRC            Project Review Committee
PSPU           Policy and Strategic Planning Unit
SA             Special Account
SC/STs         Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes
SIHFW          State Institute of Health and Family Welfare
STD            Sexually Transmitted Disease
WDR            World Development Report
ZSS            Zilla Swasthya Samithi (District Health Committee)
Vice President:           Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:           Richard Skolnik
Task Team Leader:         Tawhid Nawaz



India
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives                                          2
1. Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators    2
B. Strategic Context                                                       2
1. Sector-Related CAS Goal Supported by the Project                 2
2. Mailn Sector Issues and Government Strategy                       2
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices  3
C. Project Description Summary                                             4
1. Project Components                                               4
2. Key Policies and Institutional Strengthening Supported by the Project  5
3. Benefits and Target Population                                    5
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements                     5
D. Project Rationale                                                        6
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection        6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank
and/or Other Development Agencies                                 7
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design          8
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership                  8
5. Value Added of IDA/ITF Support in this Project                   9
E. Summary F'roject Analyses                                               9
1. Economic                                                         9
2. Technical                                                         1 0
3. Institutional                                                     10
4. Social                                                            10
5. Environmental assessment                                          11
6. Participatory approach                                            12
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                 12
1. Sustainability                                                   12
2. Critical risks                                                    13



G. Main Loan Conditions                                                      13
1. Conditions of Negotiations                                         14
2. Other Covenants                                                    14
H. Readiness for Implementation                                              15
I. Compliance with IDA Policies                                              15
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary                                         16
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description                                   18
Annex 3.      Letter of Health Sector Development Policy                    25
Annex 4.      Estimated Project Costs                                       30
Annex 5.      Public Expenditure Analysis for the Health Sector             38
Annex 6.      Cost Recovery                                                 43
Annex 7.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                     49
Annex 8.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule                         57
Annex 9.      Documents in Project File                                      58
Annex 10.    Statement of Loans and Credits                                  59
Annex 11.    Country at a Glance                                             63



India
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Region
Date: May 4, 1998                                  Task Team Leader: Tawhid Nawaz
Country Director: Edwin Limt                        Sector Manager: Richard Skolnik
Project ID: 10469                                   Sector: Health, Population and Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit      Program of Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data               [] Loan       [X] ITF         [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
Credit
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 56.8 million
Proposed terms:                        [x]  Multicurrency     []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 years    []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35 years,
including grace
period
Commitment fee: not to exceed
1/2 of 1% per
annum%
Service charge: 3/4 of 1% per
annum%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government of Orissa                                      14.30                 0              14.30
Cofinanciers                                                nil                nil            nil
IBRD                                                        nil                nil            nil
ITF                                                      56.56              19.84             76.40
Other (specify)
Total                                                    60.86              19.84             90.70
Borrower: India, Acting by its President
Responsible agency: Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Orissa
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1999      2000       2001       2002    2003    2004
Annual 5.56       14.20      21.40       18.76   13.40    3.08
Cumulative 5.56       19.76      41.16      59.92   73.32   76.40
Project implementation periodl: 5 years                       Expected effectiveness date: August 1998
Expected closing date: March 31, 2004



A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objectives of the proposed project would be to assist the Government of Orissa (GOO) to: (i)
improve efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and institutional
deveiopment; and (ii) improve the performance of the health care system through improvements in the
quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services at the first referral level and selective coverage at
the community level to better serve the neediest sections of society. The project would support other
health programs aimed at reducing infant and maternal mortality rates, which are especially high in
Orissa. Annex I provides a list of monitorable indicators.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
General. The Country Assistance Strategy ( Report No. 17241 -IN; dated December 19, 1997; discussed
by the Board on January 15. 1998) recommends a focus for Bank Group-financed investments on states
which are undertaking economic restructuring programs and supporting sectoral policy reform. It also
provides a basis for supporting Government of India's (GOI) efforts to provide an enabling environment
for broad-based, efficient private sector-led growth while accelerating the development of human
resources.  The proposed project supports these objectives by strengthening institutional capacity,
upgrading effectiveness and quality of services and enhancing community participation at the primary
and first referral levels of health care. The Orissa government has undertaken a detailed study of public
expenditures jointly with the Bank, and the state has initiated a process of fiscal reform. The proposed
project also fits the IDA's mission in targeting underserved populations such as women and scheduled
castes and scheduled tribes (SC/STs).
Sectoral. In the human resources sectors, IDA's objective is to support restructuring of social programs
to enhance their effectiveness, improve quality of life, and provide the poor with increased opportunities
to participate more fully in the economy. IDA's specific objective is to work with public, private and
voluntary sectors towards (a) improving primary care and nutrition policies; (b) consolidating disease
control efforts; and (c) upgrading state health systems. In support of this strategy, a series of projects has
been financed by IDA. The basis of this strategy for the health sector in India is rooted in an on-going
dialogue between GOI and IDA, and is reflected in two recent pieces of sector work: India: Policy and
Finance Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care Services, May 1995; and India: New
Directions in Health Sector Development at the State Level: An Operational Perspective, February 1997.
The proposed project would support this strategy in Orissa.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The major challenges in delivering a package of health care services and enhancing the performance of
health delivery systems at the state level are summarized below:
Financing Issues: In the public sector, provision and financing of health is a shared responsibility of the
central and state governments. Close to three-fourths of the financial burden for the health sector is borne
by the states. However: (i) the overall fiscal situation in the states has deteriorated sharply, with a rise in
the fiscal deficit, an increase in interest payments as a share of total revenues, and an increase in debt
outstanding as a share of state domestic product; (ii) within the health sector, resource allocation in the
public sector is skewed in favor of tertiary care services relative to the needs at the primary and secondary
levels; and (iii) much of the resources are absorbed by the salary costs, and the recurrent budgets for
operations and maintenance are chronically underfunded.
Performance of Health Systems: India is facing an epidemiological transition in which the country will
simultaneously have high rates of communicable diseases and non-communicable diseases. This dual
burden of disease facing India is compounded by: (i) the government's health care strategy, which is
anchored on population-size based norms rather than specific health needs at the community level; (ii) the
technical efficiency of key programs which is seriously limited, as service functions are duplicated and



technical paradigms have become out of date; and (iii) inadequate attention to workforce issues including
insufficient incentives for staff, and limited in-service training.
Capacity for Management. Planning and Coordination: There has been progress in recent years in the
availability, quality and use of information on health financing and management capacity at the central
and state levels. The overall capacity for management, planning and coordination remains limited in the
government sector. The present financial management system is not well developed and focuses more on
book-keeping and expenditure control, where it is difficult to obtain costing and management accounting
informnation and capture and produce timely information for making sound managerial decisions.
Public-Private Partnerships in the Health Sector: In India, about 80% of health spending is private.
largely from out-of-pocket sources. The private sector plays a dominant role in the provision of
individual curative care through ambulatory health services, whereas the public sector provides publicly
managed and financed preventive and promotive health services such as immunization, ante-natal care,
infectious disease control and hospital-based care. Despite the comparative advantage of each of the two
sectors, public-private partnerships have not been fully exploited. The main challenges with regard to
public-private roles include: (i) enhancing the scope of the private sector while improving the quality of
its services; (ii) encouraging private sector involvement in the preventive and promotive aspects of health
care; (iii) finding the appropriate mix between direct provision versus the financing of health care by the
public sector; and (iv) improving the existing arrangements for monitoring private health care providers.
Essential Public Health Functions. To improve the overall performance of the health sector, it is
important to strengthen India's essential public health functions. These include, inter alia: immunization,
maternal and child health, drug resistant forms of several communicable diseases such as malaria and
tuberculosis, HIV/AII)S, disease surveillance, research and development, and food and drug quality.
Moreover, the public sector has an important role to play in enhancing the effectiveness and access of
health care, especially for the poor who have limited access to private services.
Government Strategy:  India has made substantial progress in improving the health status of its
population over the paist two decades. Health is one of the six priority areas identified in the Ninth Plan
(1997-2002). GOI has determined that public investments in health are critical for the sustainability of
development and poverty alleviation in India. The Ninth Plan emphasizes successful preventive and
promotive activities, better control of communicable and non-communicable diseases, improved
surveillance and improved systemic efficiency. More recently, the Central Council of Health and Family
Welfare has noted the importance of linking preventive and promotive care with selective aspects of
curative care which is provided at first referral hospitals. Since the states are largely responsible for the
financing and implementation of health programs, these issues need to be addressed at the state level.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Financing Issues: Public resources allocated to the health sector in Orissa, as in other Indian states, are
inadequate to meet basic health care needs. The government has expressed its commitment to implement
selected financing policy issues to support the investment program. These include: (i) enhancing
budgetary allocations to the health sector; (ii) increasing the share of resources to the primary and
secondary levels of health care; (iii) allocating adequate resources for drugs, essential supplies and
operations and maintenance (O&M); and (iv) raising supplementary funds through user charges.
Performance of Health Systems: The health care delivery system in Orissa suffers from several
institutional problems. The project chooses to address systemic, broad-based problems faced at the first
referral and community levels rather than providing ad hoc or piecemeal solutions. Systems to be
strengthened include: overall management, procurement of drugs and equipment. referral, health
management information system (HMIS), surveillance of major communicable diseases, health care
waste management, and equipment management system.
Management, Planning and Coordination: The project would strengthen the existing Directorate of
Health Services (DHS) structure by providing it greater autonomy in essential functions such as
implementation of civil works programs, drug and equipment procurement, workforce issues and
financial management.



4
Technical and Quality Issues: A detailed mapping exercise has been undertaken to identify the tvpes of
services to be provided at different facilities, clinical and service norms have been streamlined, and a plan
for a coherent system of service delivery from the community hospital to the district hospital has been
developed.
Access to Basic Health Services: In tribal areas. the focus of the project would be to increase outreach
activities and to facilitate health seeking behavior amongst tribals. To address the high levels of maternal
and infant mortality rates in the state, the project would focus on CHCs and community hospitals to
increase institutional deliveries, a key factor in the reduction of maternal mortality. While adequate
staffing at this level is a risk, the government is committed to ensuring adequate staffing at these
facilities.
Private and NGO Sectors: Given the high level of poverty in the state, the private sector for health care is
underdeveloped. The government is, however, committed to actively engaging the private sector in
health care delivery where possible, especially with regard to contracting out support services. NGOs are
active in the state, and the project would seek their participation in project activities in areas where they
have a comparative advantage.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Scope: The proposed project would be an investment operation providing Interim Trust Fund (ITF)
financing of US$76.4 million equivalent for a 5 year period. It would address key policy issues at the
community and first referral levels of health care. The project would be an important step in the
development of a coherent, effective and sustainable health system; and would strengthen the
organizational and institutional structure of preventive and curative aspects of health care by integrating
primary health care services with first referral hospitals. The project would help deliver a package of
health services, based on revised service norms, and consistent with needs in the community. The policy
issues to be addressed under the project would help prepare the state to better address priority issues in
the primary and secondary levels of the health system in the medium- to long-term. Project investments
would include:
Component                            Category           Cost Incl.   % of Total
Contingencies
(USL$ M)   ______
Management Development and Institutional        Civil works, goods,         10.1          I1
Strengthening by: (a) strengthening planning,   consultants and services,
management and implementation capacity at the state,  incremental salaries,
district and facility levels; and               operations and
(b) strengthening the HMIS and the capacity for  maintenance costs.
surveillance of major communicable diseases.
Improving Service Quality, Access and Effectiveness   Civil works, goods,   52.5          58
at the Secondary Level by:                      consultants and services,
(a) upgrading area, sub-divisional and district  incremental salaries,
hospitals; and (b) upgrading effectiveness of clinical,  operations and
managerial and support services at the facility level.   maintenance costs.
Improving Access to Basic Health Services at the  Civil works, goods,       28.1          3 1
Community Level through: (a) selective upgrading of  consultants and services,
community health centers; (b) promoting health  incremental salaries,
services in tribal areas and for disadvantaged groups;   operations and
and (c) improving referral mechanisms and       maintenance costs.
strengthening linkages between the different tiers of
the health care system.



5
Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing, effective after June 30, 1997, would be provided for
expenditures which follow the standard features of eligibility. This would include eligible project related
expenditures; procurement following standard Bank guidelines; and activities accepted as consistent with
appraised standards. The government identified the following items for which they would claim
retroactive financing amounting to about US$1 million equivalent (about 1.4% of the proposed Credit):
preparation activities including facilities and equipment surveys, preparation of procurement documents
and model plans, studies, information technology equipment, vehicles and related operational
expenditures.
2. Key policies and institutional strengthiening supported by the project:
The Government of COrissa has furnished a Letter of Health Sector Development Policy (Annex 3) that
provides the basis for policy development in the health sector, the important points of which are linked to
the Remedies section of the ITF Development Credit Agreement. The policy issues include: (i)
increasing financing and improving resource allocation for the health sector; (ii) strengthening capacity
for management, planning and coordination; (iii) enhancing the role of the private and voluntary sectors;
(iv) implementing a user charge policy; (v) providing incentives for the workforce; and (vi) redressing
regional and other imbalances.
3. Benefits and target population:
A major benefit of the proposed project will be to help establish an effective and sustainable health
system in Orissa. This would indirectly benefit the state's population as a whole. First, the broader
sectoral policy issues to be addressed under the proposed project would increase the effectiveness of the
health sector by improving the environment in which the public health sector operates. Second, there
would be substantial cost savings in the state through the implementation of streamlined service norms
and rationalization of service provision at different levels of the health care system. Technical and
quality improvements, including in operations and maintenance functions, at the facility level will
enhance the effectiveness of services. Encouraging patients to seek timely care would result in higher
cure rates at lower costs. Third, analysis has shown that health care services carried out at lower level
facilities, such as at first referral facilities rather than at a tertiary hospitals could result in savings of
between 25-40% (see Annex 5). Fourth, those currently utilizing existing services would benefit from
better quality of care. In addition, there would be other qualitative benefits which would have a
significant impact on the health system. The strengthening of first referral facilities would lend vital
support and credibility to the primary health care system in rural areas. Moreover, there are considerable
externalities associated with reducing public health hazards through improvements in health care waste
management and in the surveillance system for major communicable diseases. Finally, by focusing on
CHCs, the proposed project will have a direct impact on reducing maternal mortality, as well as in
reducing infant mortality by increasing institutional deliveries.
In addition to these systemic benefits, the proposed project would directly benefit approximately 2
million out-patients and 110,000 in-patients annually who are utilizing existing hospital services through
the provision of better quality of care. In addition, the proposed project is expected to directly benefit an
estimated 0.9 million incremental out-patients and an estimated 150,000 incremental in-patients annually.
As in the other states, the beneficiary study has shown that the majority of people using the services to be
provided under the project belong to the poorest 40% of the population.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements (Annex 2):
The project will be managed and implemented by a Project Management Cell (PMC) located in the
state's Department of Health and Family Welfare (DOHFW). The PMC would be headed by the Project
Director. The functions of the PMC would include all aspects of routine project management, monitoring
progress, maintaining flow-of-funds and project account, providing technical guidance and general



6
administration. and preparing progress reports. At the district level, the Zilla Swasthya Samithi (the
District Health Committee) would monitor and supervise project activities including the collection and
distribution of user charges, maintenance of equipment, waste management, training of technical staff,
quality assurance and surveillance of major communicable diseases.
Financial Management and Auditing Arrangements (Annex 7): The PMC will design, develop and
maintain a computerized Project Financial Management System capable of providing timely and reliable
information to DOHFW and project management staff to monitor the project's progress towards its agreed
objectives. PMC will prepare and furnish to IDA a project financial report on a quarterly basis. Project
Financial Statements so compiled would be audited annually in accordance with standards of auditing
acceptable to the Bank by an independent auditor. The audit of project accounts would include an
assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems, ability to maintain adequate
documentation for transactions, and eligibility of expenditures for ITF/IDA financing. The audited
Project Financial Statements including a summary of Statement of Expenditure disbursements together
with auditor's opinion on it would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the close of each
fiscal year. The audit report on Special Account (SA) maintained by the Department of Economic
Affairs would include a summary of SA transactions and the closing balance held by the Reserve Bank of
India. The audit report on SA would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the close of each
fiscal year.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The major alternatives to the project would be to:
(a) target interventions in selected districts in several states rather than addressing statewide health care
needs up to the district level in a single state. This would miss the opportunity to address key state-wide
policy issues such as increasing financing and improving resource allocation in the health sector,
allocating adequate resources for drugs, essential supplies and operations and maintenance, and
institutional strengthening such as rationalized service norms, referral mechanism, health care waste
management system, equipment management system, HMIS and surveillance of major communicable
diseases, procurement and financial management arrangements. By introducing less focused and more
piecemeal interventions within the state, this alternative would not address the health needs in a coherent
and effective manner. Experience in the four states where State Health Systems Development projects
are currently being implemented indicates that the broad-based approach is the appropriate mechanism to
address systemic health sector issues.
(b) target interventions at the primary level only. A number of other disease control and family welfare
projects supported by IDA are already targeting investments at the primary level and addressing the
critical needs related to staffing, drugs and medicine. Moreover, the epidemiological profile/burden of
disease indicates that a sustainable health system will need to combine elements of public health and
basic clinical services in order to provide adequate and necessary health care services. Investments at the
primary level alone will not be effective in providing these basic health services without the vital support
at the first referral level, which confers credibility to the public health system. This is especially true for
critical programs such as safe motherhood and child survival (Investing in Health, World Development
Report, 1993).
(c) build up the primary health care network to deliver services provided at the first referral level.
Significant expansion of primary health center (PHC) network to provide first referral services is not
feasible due to: (i) low absorptive capacity at that level; (ii) difficulty in stationing qualified staff at the
PHC level; (iii) inability of the PHC level to adequately deal with critical conditions such as obstetric



7
emergency, which is key to reducing maternal deaths; (iv) unavailability of sizable investment resources
that would be needed to significantly expand infrastructure, and (v) unavailability of a larger operating
budget at the PHC level at a time when the recurrent budget for staff salaries, medicine and drugs is being
cut back (India: Policv and Finance Strategies, May 1995). In addition, analysis undertaken in the recent
sector work shows that unit cost for bed day, outpatient contact and level I tests such as blood picture and
urine exams are comparable at the PHC and first referral hospital level, and in some cases even lower at
the first referral level (India: New Directions in Health Sector Development, February 1997).
(d) extend selective interventions to the tertiary level as well. Treating communicable disease and
addressing routine meclical services at the tertiary hospitals will overload the tertiary hospitals and
undermine their role in providing super-specialty services. Moreover, recent sector work and other
related studies show th[at for comparable conditions, treatment and care at the first referral level on
average cost about two-thirds of that at the tertiary level facilities (India: New Directions in Health Sector
Development, February 1997). Tertiary hospitals cater mainly to specialized services, many of which
could be provided more efficiently by the private sector, and hence are unsuitable for IDA funding.
(e) leave the provision of first referral services and basic health services to the private sector. There are
several rationale for undertaking this operation through the public sector: (i) both sector work and
beneficiary assessment studies indicate that more than 60% of the beneficiaries belong to the poorest
sections of society and much of the remaining 40% are marginally above the poverty line. As such, they
are unable to afford fees for private services, which are two to three times higher and borne almost
entirely from out-of-pocket sources; (ii) the private sector provides mainly individual, curative care and
does not perform public health functions which these facilities backstop. A package of public health
measures and essential interventions is an important priority for government financing. Moreover, the
coordination of project activities with national health programs would not materialize; and (iii) it would
not be possible to address the systemic issues and put in place a coherent approach to health systems
development due to individual-based care provided by the private sector.
(f) maintain the status quo.  Retaining the current program  would mean that there would be no
institutional strengthening and policy development in the health sector; service norms will continue to
remain unstreamlined: patients would continue to be treated at higher level facilities at higher unit costs;
and technical and quality of the public program will remain at the existing low level. Yet the demand on
the existing system is ever increasing, especially from the poorer sections of societv, and is unable to be
satisfied.
2. Major related projecs financed by thle Bank and/or othier development agencies:
Sector issue                      Project                   Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
IDA-financed              National AIDS Control                        S                S
National Leprosy Elimination                 S                S
Cataract Blindness Control                   S                S
Andhra Pradesh First Referral Health         S                S
System
State Health Systems Development II          S                S
Malaria Control                              S                S
Reproductive and Child Health I              S                S
Tuberculosis Control                         U                S
Other development         An ODA financed project is addressing
agencies                  limited primary care services in Orissa.
IP/DO Ratings: 1HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in tde project design:
The design of this project takes into account key lessons learned from international experience, other
social sector projects in India, and specifically the two State Health Systems Development Projects under
implementation in four states. The key lessons from international experience are: a broad sectoral
approach within a supportive policy environment produces significant positive results and benefits; a
limited package of public health measures and essential clinical interventions is a top priority for
government finance (WDR, 1993). On the public health side, the list includes immunization, school
health programs, family planning, health, nutrition, programs to reduce tobacco, alcohol and drug
consumption, and AIDS prevention with a strong STD component. On the essential clinical services, the
list includes prenatal and delivery care, family planning services, management of the sick child, treatment
of TB, case management of STDs, and limited care.  This project, in recognizing the specific
administrative and socio-technical issues, and epidemiological profile in Orissa, would provide a number
of the services listed above. Among the most important lessons from experience with other social
sector projects in India are: (i) the need to ensure timely and adequate flow of funds to the project
entity; (ii) the need for advanced preparation of hardware and software aspects of the project prior to
approval, especially because of the five-year implementation duration; (iii) the need to speed up
implementation and strengthen supervision by strengthening the implementation capacity of the line
agency to resolve problems in procurement and disbursement early in the project cycle, and develop
detailed implementation plans prior to appraisal; and (iv) the need to ensure maintenance of buildings and
equipment through provision of adequate resources for O&M, increasing capacity for maintenance, and
through provision of training. Lessons from the implementation of the two recent State Health
Systems Development projects are: (i) the importance of maintaining continuity in project management
and the key project actors; (ii) the importance of empowering the Project Management Cell and the
Project Director appropriately to ensure timely and adequate flow of funds, especially when the project is
implemented by a government line department; (iii) the importance of strengthening management aspects
by providing greater autonomy with regard to management and supervision, adequate staffing of key
project management personnel and strengthening management procedures; and (iv) the importance of
paying attention to the quality aspects of the project through the development of staffing and technical
norms, referral mechanism and clinical and management training programs during preparation and
agreeing with the government on performance monitoring indicators prior to approval. Improvement in
HMIS is an important first step to policy and institutional strengthening and the information collected
through M&E should be routinely used for management decision-making as in Andhra Pradesh (AP).
The availability of drugs and medical personnel in Karnataka and AP has increased the credibility of the
health system: and the increased access to basic health services in tribal areas has had a positive impact
on health indicators. With regard to cost recovery, the experience in Punjab and Karnataka shows that
the retention of funds at the facility level is resulting in substantial improvement in O&M functions.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Orissa has expressed a strong commitment at the highest levels to undertake a program of health sector
development to support the investment program under the project. A letter of Health Sector Development
Policy has been provided. Orissa has participated in several workshops organized by the Union MOHFW
on broad-ranging health sector development issues. A detailed project implementation plan has been
prepared in Orissa with the widespread participation of beneficiaries, govemment agencies, NGOs and
DFID.
Orissa was selected for this project on the basis of several other criteria. These included: state-Bank
dialogue in public expenditure policies and initiation of state-level fiscal reform; suitability of health
systems strengthening in relation to area/population size; poverty criterion; advanced status of project
preparation; and GOI priorities with regard to addressing the needs of states with high levels of poverty.
In addition, Orissa's performance in the implementation of donor-assisted social sector projects has been
satisfactory, although those projects have been smaller in scope than the proposed project.



9
5. Value added of IDA/ITF support in t/is project:
IDA/ITF is best suited to provide assistance to an investment operation of this magnitude, where
pragmatic investments would be complemented by key health sector policy initiatives. The policy and
institutional strengthening areas of the project are where the value-added of IDA support lies. IDA's
policy dialogue with CiOT over the past five years has made it possible to engage the government in a
coherent, systemic, broad-based and effective approach to develop the health sector at the state level.
IDA/ITF's support would strengthen the state's capacity to implement priority health programs and
provide basic health care in rural areas on a scale that is not possible for either the state government or
other donor agencies to undertake. Also, the project would consolidate the investments made by a
number of other IDA supported projects in the health, population and nutrition sectors, and provide a
critical link to these investments. Finally, the project would strengthen IDA's strategy of poverty
reduction in India through its focus on underprivileged people, especially women and SCISTs.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 5&6): A number of economic analyses have been undertaken for
this operation. The background data for much of the analysis is contained in several documents,
including India: Policy and Finance Strategies, May 1995 and in India: New Directions in Health Sector
Development. February 1997. First, the section on benefits and target populations describes the major
benefits, including non-quantifiable benefits, that are attributable to this project.  The Beneficiary
Assessment study indicates that a majority of project beneficiaries belong to the lowest income groups, an
important argument for public sector intervention and poverty alleviation. Second, some of the project
alternatives considered have been quantified in previous sector work mentioned above for all India, and
has been applied to Orissa. Third, the Orissa Burden of Disease Study, which followed the extensive
work undertaken for the Andhra Pradesh Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness Study, provides
detailed information on the prevalence of different diseases/conditions in Orissa, based on which an
analysis has been undertaken of the types of services that should be provided at different levels of health
care. Finally, an analysis of cost recovery has been undertaken, which shows that the level of user
charges is currently low, and alternative scenarios have been developed estimating possible revenue that
could be collected at the facilities. Realistic estimates show that at project completion, revenues from
user charges might provide Rs. 50 million towards non-salary recurrent annually (see Annex 6).
Fiscal Impact: An analysis of public expenditure on health is provided in Annex 5. It reviews the fiscal
situation in Orissa, analyzing past trends in selected aspects of public finance, expenditures on health and
family welfare, and the burden of incremental recurrent costs. Incremental and annual recurrent costs
including contingencies at project completion are expected to be about Rs. 230 million. This compares to
current allocations for Health and Family Welfare of about Rs. 2,842 million. Assuming continuation of
past trends in overall expenditures, allocations would amount to Rs. 3,530 million in the year following
the end of the project. Incremental recurrent costs of the project would amount to 6.5% of total revenue
expenditures of DOHFW. The incremental recurrent costs of the project imply an increased share for
health of total government expenditures of about 0.4 percentage points.
While these are substantial additions to the health budget, the fiscal reforms undertaken by the
government and the commitment of the government to the development of the health sector imply that
this addition will be sustainable. The Orissa government would meet the incremental recurrent cost needs
by: (i) enhancing contribution to the health budget; (ii) reallocating incremental resources from the
tertiary to the secondary and primary levels of health care; and (iii) establishing cost recovery
mechanisms where revenues obtained would supplement non-salary recurrent expenditures.



10
2. Technical: The project would link the different tiers of the health delivery system through a referral
mechanism in which the norms of service have been clearly defined. To facilitate this process, a detailed
mapping exercise has been undertaken to identify the types of services to be provided at different
facilities taking into account the epidemiological profile, utilization rates, population-size based criteria,
and districts with high infant and maternal mortality rates. For example, some district hospitals would
provide 11 specializations, whereas others would provide up to 16 based on need and utilization patterns.
Based on the norms of service developed: (i) the proposed block level facilities have been consolidated
into two types of community health centers (CHCs): type II with 16 beds staffed with 3 doctors (I
specialist), and type I with 30 beds and 7 doctors (5 specialists), both performing outreach functions; (ii)
services to be provided at area, sub-divisional and district hospitals have been defined; (iii) norms have
been elaborated for staffing patterns, diagnostic facilities, space requirements and medical equipment at
each type of facility; and (iv) functions of the blood bank and transfusion facilities have been defined,
including space and equipment requirements. This will help to establish a system of service delivery
linking the CHCs to the district hospital, with the district hospital acting as the nodal point under which
the system of secondary and primary care will provide services.
3. Institutional: Specific measures are planned at the state, zonal and district levels to strengthen
institutional capacity, based on lessons learned from the implementation of similar projects and
institutional risks associated with project implementation in Orissa. Specific institutional strengthening
measures include: (i) empowering a Steering Committee to authorize the PMC in day-to-day project
implementation matters; (ii) setting-up a mechanism to ensure adequate and timely flow of funds and
empowering the Project Director to incur project-related expenditures; (iii) empowering the DOHFW in
the implementation of the civil works program and equipment management system; (iv) setting-up a new
drug procurement arrangement which adopts, with minor exceptions, an open tender system in which
purchase orders are centralized at the state level; (v) setting-up a computer-based financial management
system for use and operation by the PMC which will be capable of providing timely and reliable
information to the PMC to facilitate effective monitoring of the project's progress; and (vi) setting-up a
monitoring and evaluation system to provide timely feedback for project management.
4. Social: The social analysis for the project is based on several background pieces: (i) a detailed
situation analysis, describing the socio-economic, demographic, epidemiological and health sector
situation in the state. This indicates that the population is highly dispersed, with a population density
ranging from 400 persons per square km. in the coastal districts to less than 100 persons per square km.
in tribal districts. About 44% of the state's population lives below the poverty line. The sex ratio in the
state was 971 females per 1000 males in 1991. Almost 40% of the state's population is made up of
SC/STs. The project will address these issues by (a) targeting the poor to increase their access to health
services free of cost; (b) providing much greater access to women, especially rural women, for receiving
health care by increasing access to facilities in remote areas. More specifically, the project would reduce
maternal and infant mortality by addressing the most critical gaps for an effective safe motherhood
program. The project would strengthen the referral system from the community to the CHC level where
timely access to emergency obstetrics care is provided; and (c) implementing a tribal strategy to address
the specific health needs of tribal populations (see below). (ii) the Orissa Burden of Disease study,
undertaken during project preparation, indicates that the burden of communicable disease in Orissa, at
62%, is 10 percentage points higher than the average for India, and maternal and infant mortality rates are
amongst the poorest in the country. The project will address this issue by strengthening CHCs to provide
better access to essential and emergency obstetrics care at the community level and by addressing those
conditions which affect childhood mortality; (iii) ananalysis of hospital activity indicators which shows
that Government health institutions are the predominant providers of health care in the state, particularly
in rural and tribal areas. Several indicators of the availability and accessibility of health facilities are
much lower in Orissa than in other Indian states, and this impacts negatively on service delivery in
Orissa. Strengthening the capacity of the public health system at the district level will address the need to



11
deliver enhanced services at that level; (iv) a beneficiary assessment study undertaken as part of project
preparation which identified, through informed participation of the beneficiaries, the health care needs of
tribal and underserved communities and constraints in provision of these needs and recommended plans
for delivering adequate and quality health care for members of these communities. The project will
address these needs by implementing a strategy aimed at increasing access to health care for tribal and
underserved populations; and (v) no land acquisition and involuntary resettlement issues are expected to
arise because upgradation of facilities will take place in existing premises. If, however, during project
implementation any issue should arise in a specific hospital with regard to involuntary resettlement, GOO
would not proceed with the civil works program at the particular facility until such time as the issue was
resolved in a manner satisfactory to the administrator.
Tribal Strategy: About 22% of the state's population is tribal. Studies indicate that the utilization of
secondary and primary health services in tribal areas is low due to problems with physical, economic and
social access of the tribals to health services. The project's tribal strategy (see Annex 2) would be aimed
at increasing the demand for primary health services in tribal areas by improving the quality of services
and providing effective IEC to better inform tribal populations of the benefits of using government health
services. In addition, the project would: (a) strengthen linkages between primary and secondary health
care services; (b) provide an incentive package to doctors and other medical staff in tribal areas to
encourage them to accept assignment in these areas; (c) increase access to health care services through
the provision of mobile health clinics and annual health camps; and (d) reduce the cost of utilizing these
services. A baseline survey and periodic surveys would be conducted to facilitate the on-going
monitoring and evaluation of the strategy, and an appropriate action plan would be developed to address
the issues identified by the monitoring and evaluation system.
5. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category: B
It is estimated in several hospitals in India that 85% of hospital wastes are non-hazardous, which can be
disposed in a manner similar to municipal waste; 10% of hospital wastes are infectious; and 5% are non-
infectious but hazardous. WHO estimates that the generation of hospital wastes for low-income countries
ranges from 0.5 - 3 kg. per bed per day. Based on this estimate and the low proportion of infectious and
hazardous waste in a typical hospital in Orissa, and given the current and projected bed occupancy rates
in Orissa, it is estimated that the total amount of infectious and hazardous waste generated is small
compared to waste gerierated in health care facilities in developed countries. While the project will not
contribute to any sizable increase in hospital waste, it will address the issue of the management of health
care waste at the facility level, including collection, storage and final disposal. The environmental issue
with regard to the process of final disposal of health care waste is the reason the project has been rated as
category B. Taking into account legislative action taken by GOI and other developments in the NGO
sector, the state has developed a plan for the treatment of health care waste, distinguishing between
actions to be taken within the hospital premises and actions to be taken with regard to ultimate disposal
outside hospital premises.
The govemment's Environmental Action Plan proposes a three phase approach. The first phase (short
term), to be implemented within the first six months of the start-up of implementation, would focus on the
immediate reduction in hazards from health care waste by the introduction of low cost/no cost measures
such as simple segregation to remove sharps and infected waste, and secure on-site storage to reduce
scavenging. The second phase (medium term) would include (i) scale up measures, such as fuller
segregation and limited on-site treatment, including needle crushers; (ii) formation of an inter-disciplinary
working group, with a small task force, to implement agreed measures; (iii) survey of waste arising and
technological options; (iv) appraisal of options and cost-benefit analysis, where possible, for each
hospital; and (v) design and implementation of training program. In order to evaluate the available



12
options for properly managing infectious and hazardous waste, a study will be initiated within the first
year of project implementation to collect additional information. Based on this, the third phase (long
term) would be developed, which would focus on completion of options appraisal, development of
appropriate  management systems, implementation  of clinical waste  management plans and
implementation of the full training program.
6. Participatory approaclh
Participatory approach          Preparation          Implementation          Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups    consult            collaborate             NA
Intermediary NGOs               consult              collaborate             NA
Academic institutions           consult              information             NA
sharing
Local government                collaborate          collaborate             NA
Other donors                    collaborate          collaborate/information   NA
sharing
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability: A limited analysis of fiscal sustainability reveals that Orissa's public finances, among
the weakest of the major states of India, have shown signs of increasing strain over the last decade in
terms of both the size and structure of the deficit (Strategy and Options for Fiscal Stabilization in Orissa;
Report No. 15809 - IN, August 1997). The revenue base has remained small and revenue as a share of
gross state domestic product (GSDP) have declined and are substantially lower than in other low-income
countries. In the past decade, gross fiscal deficit rose from 4% of GSDP to more than 6% and the
primary deficit as a share of GSDP has increased steadily since 1993, reaching 1.9% of GSDP in 1994-95
-- a slight improvement was noted for 1995-96 (1.7%). If recent levels and patterns in the state's revenue
and non-interest expenditures continue, the gross fiscal deficit is expected to rise from 6% to 8% of
GSDP by the end of the decade and the primary deficit to more than 2.5% of GSDP in the medium term.
The evolution of Orissa's debt mirrors that of other states in India. The build up of debt has been closely
linked to the trend of the state revenue deficit. Like some other states, Orissa has been forced in recent
years to borrow to meet its revenue expenditure requirements. The total debt of the government is
estimated at about Rs. 9.5 billion at the end of FY97/98, and increase of almost 246% since 1988/89: the
per capita debt burden increased from Rs. 907 to an estimated Rs. 2,690 during the same period. Interest
payments rose more than three-fold between 1988/89 and 1996/97 from Rs. 3,030 million to Rs. 10.970
million, and the stock of Orissa's debt as a share of GSDP increased from about 37% to more than 40%.
This is higher than any of the other major states in India. Efforts to increase revenue and to alter the
structure of expenditure obviously will be necessary to reverse the deteriorating position of public
finances, which has implications for public financing of the health sector. The government has initiated
steps to reform overall public expenditures, and has made a start with major reforms in the power sector
which has so far been the beneficiary of large government subsidies.



13
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourths column of Annex 1):
Risk            Risk Rating                        Risk Minimization Measure
The overall financial  Substantial    *  The government's Letter of Health Sector Development Policv provides
status of the state is a                  assurances that the share of health sector resources in the overall budget
risk. This might have                     would be maintained at the 1996-97 level during the project period.
implications for the                  *  A specific covenant has been included requiring the government to
allocation of sufficient                  increase the share of resources for the primary and secondary levels of
funds to the health                       health care in the total health care resources.
sector.                               *  The financial sustainability of the state and the financial status of the
health sector will be assessed as part of the mid-term review.
A Policy and Strategic Planning Unit will provide technical and policy
inputs to enhancing resource utilization.
Inadequate flow of     Substantial    *  The government will set up an administrative mechanism to ensure
funds, budgetary                          adequate financial management, including flow of funds.
allocations, availability             *  The government would undertake to: make adequate budgetary
of drugs and medicine,                    allocations for recurrent expenditures, including drugs and essential
and other inputs.                         supplies at the first referral level; and implement a user charge policy to
supplement budgetary resources.
Government fails to    Modest         *  Upfront action has already been undertaken by the government, through
implement cost recovery                  the issuance of a user charge policy in July 1997. reinforcing the
measures.                                 government's early commitment.
Delays in              Substantial    *  The first year of procurement packages are in place.
implementation due to                 *  Start-up of construction activities and procurement of equipment is being
slow procurement and                      planned well in advance and will be undertaken by specialized agencies
recruitment of staff.                     for the first year of the project.
The capacity of existing  Modest      *  Measures are being taken to strengthen referral mechanism, HMIS,
institutions to undertake                 surveillance, waste management, procurement, and financial management
systemic improvements                     and audit.
is yet to be tested in                *  Seminars, workshops and informal collaboration are taking place between
Orissa.                                  the four states and Orissa to facilitate the sharing of lessons of experience.
Delays in putting the  Modest         *  Much of the core Project Management Team is in place.
Project Management
Team in place.
Synchronization of     Modest         *  A well-defined plan has been spelled out in the PIP and Bank supervision
project inputs.                           inputs will facilitate the government's efforts.
Overall Risk Rating Modest        _
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
As Conditions of Negotiations the following actions have been taken:
(a)    A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been finalized (dated April 1, 1998) and provided to the
Administrator;
(b)    The project has been cleared by GOO, and a Letter of Health Sector Development Policy,
furnished prior to negotiations, has been finalized during negotiations;
(c)    The Health Secretary of GOO has been designated to function as the Project Director until a
suitable Project Director is appointed. The heads of Health, Engineering, Finance and Accounts,
and Administrative Units of the Project Management Cell have been designated;



14
(d)    A Procurement Schedule/Plan for civil works, goods and services for the first two years of the
project has been prepared and cleared with the Administrator;
(e)    The bidding documents for prior review packages/contracts for use in the first year of the project
have been finalized and cleared by the Administrator;
(f)    All necessary clearances within the GOI and GOO for the project have been obtained; and
(g)    A mechanism to ensure adequate and timely flow-of-funds, including the delegation of adequate
financial powers to the Project Director, has been finalized. GOO has agreed to the introduction
of a Letter of Credit system for payment of expenditures to be incurred under the project, and the
provision of substantial financial authority to the Project Director to incur expenditures under the
project.
Other Covenants:
At negotiations, the Government of Orissa provided assurances that it would:
(a)    Ensure that: (i) the share of resources for the primary and secondary levels of health care in the
total resources (Plan and Non-plan) allocated to the health sector would be increased each year
until the year 2004; and (ii) allocate adequate resources for drugs, essential supplies and
maintenance of equipment and buildings at district, sub-divisional, areas hospitals and
community health centers in accordance with norms agreed with IDA as Administrator of the
Interim Trust Fund;
(b)    Strengthen, and thereafter maintain, a PSPU with adequate powers, functions, staff and resources
satisfactory to the Administrator; maintain the Project Review Committee and the Steering
Committee.
(c)    Ensure that the PMC would have the authority to manage essential operational activities
including civil works construction and maintenance;
(d)    Ensure that the program for collecting user charges at district hospitals is maintained, including:
(i) strengthening collection of existing user charges; (ii) implementing revised user charges in a
phased manner within six months after upgradation of each facility; (iii) permitting revenues
collected from user charges to be retained at the hospital; and (iv) reviewing and revising the
mechanism for targeting beneficiaries below the poverty line for exemption from user charges as
necessary or appropriate;
(e)    Adopt, within six months after hospital upgradation, staffing and technical norms at all hospitals
under the project to ensure the quality of services;
(f)    Complete recruitment of, and thereafter maintain personnel, in the PMC with adequate skills,
qualifications and experience, by December 31, 1998;
(g)    Carry out the project in tribal areas in accordance with the strategy outlined in the PIP;
(h)    Maintain and implement referral protocols and guidelines by March 31, 1999;
(i)    Ensure that the health care waste management plan will be implemented as currently developed
and as may be updated for the medium- and long-term plans;
(j)    Review with the Administrator by April 30 of each year the progress of project implementation
over the preceding twelve months and prepare an annual workplan for the following twelve
months;
(k)    Ensure that no civil works which may result in the involuntary resettlement of people will be
undertaken under the project;
(I)    Carry out a mid-term review by June 30, 2001.



15
H. Readiness for Implementation
The Government of Orissa has provided a final Project Implementation Plan (April 1, 1998). A Letter of
Health Sector Development Policy has been furnished by the Government. An analysis has been
completed of public expenditures in the state overall, and for the health sector. A Social Assessment has
been completed, and the findings and recommendations of the study have been used to fine-tune project
design. A tribal strategy has been developed by the government and found satisfactory. In addition, the
state has completed the following activities: (i) a burden of disease study, which has helped to further
define service norms; (ii) streamlining of services offered at different levels of facilities, and preparation
of equipment and staffing norms on that basis; development of training modules for each category of
staff; development of an agreed set of performance monitoring indicators; finalization of manpower plan;
and preparation of a plan for surveillance for major communicable diseases; (iii) completion of site
surveys; preparation of a civil works program; finalization of a procurement plan for civil works, goods
and services for the first two years of the project; finalization of bidding documents for prior review
packages for use in the first year of the project; completion of an inventory of existing equipment;
finalization of equipment lists and technical specifications; and finalization of an essential drug list; and
(iv) completion of an Environmental Action Plan, addressing health care waste management issues.
1. Compliance with IDA Policies
Tllis project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
Task Team Leader: Tawhid Nawaz
Sector ManageR        Skolnik
Country Director: Edwin Lim



16
Annex I
Page I of 2
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
Design Summary
Narrative Summary                              Key Indicators'                             Monitoring and            Critical
Evaluation        Assumptions/Risks
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Enhance access to basic   Systemic, coherent and broad targeted approach to establishing an  Department of Health   Continued political
health services for the   effective and sustainable health system.                         Progress Report        commitment and
poor and most vulnerable                                                                                          management
in society.                                                                                                       effectiveness.
Project Development       Indicators for measuring development objectives.
Objective:
(i) improve efficiency in    (i) Improved efficiency:
the allocation and use of    *   Increased share of resources for the primary and secondary  State Department of    Political
health resources through       levels of health care in the total resources (plan and non-plan)    Health and Family  commitment to carrv
policy and institutional       allocated to the health sector, until year 2002             Welfare (DOHFW)        out policy.
development               *   Increase resources for drugs, essential supplies and         budget documents
consumables in accordance with agreed norms per inpatient per
bed per year from Rs. 3.500 at baseline, to Rs. 4,500 by July 1,   DOHFW Annual
1999, and Rs. 5,500 by mid-term review                     Report
*   Implementation of a user charge policy                      DOHFW Project
Implementation Plan
(ii) improve the          (ii) Improved quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services:                   Delays in
performance of the health   a. Improved quality:                                           Financial statements    implementation.
care system through       *   Increase in number of institutions staffed in accordance with  of individual hospitals  Timely flow of
improvements in the            agreed norms (particularly in tribal blocks); from 0 at baseline,   and DOHFW Annual   funds. Adequate
quality, effectiveness and     by 25% at mid-term, and 75% at end of project               Report                 budgetary allocation
coverage of health                                                                                                to the health sector.
services.                 *   Increase in laboratory equipment and investigations                                 Availability of
*   Increase in supply of drugs and equipment                                          drugs, medicines.
*   Increase in patient satisfaction (based on client survey for total,                staff and other
women and STs)                                                                     inputs.
b. Improved etTectiveness:
*   Increase in number of admissions to institutions under the
project due to pregnancy-related complications from 20% at
baseline, by 5 percentage points at mid-term, and 15 percentage
points at end of prqiect
*   Increase in the number of institutional deliveries in institutions
under the project from 16% at baseline, by 5 percentage points
at mid-term. and by 15 percentage points at end of project
*   Increase in number of surgeries
*   Increase in treatment and referral of patients with selected
diseases and conditions (ARI. childhood diarrhea, malaria, TB
and pregnancy related conditions)
*   Increase in number of under-5 treatment as outpatients
c. Improved access:
*   Increase outpatient attendance in total, among women and STs,
from 30% for women and 10% for STs at baseline, by 5
percentage points and 2 percentage points respectively at mid-
term, and by 10 percentage points and 5 percentage points
respectively at end of project
*   Increase in the type of services provided
*   Increase in referrals from PHCs to CHCs, area, subdivisional
and district hospitals
I Indicators delineated with * have been agreed upon with the Government of Orissa at negotiations as final project indicators.



17
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Outputs:                 Indicators for measuring implementation progress.
Improve the institutional    *   Increase number of institutions under project utilizing  Project Monitoring  Project management
framework for policy          management information systems from 0 at baseline. by 32  Cell                  team in place for
development and               District Hospitals at mid-term. and 156 project institutions at                  duration of project.
strengthening                 end of project                                            HMIS data
management and
implementation capacity    *   Studies. workshops and seminars conducted.               Baseline surveys.
project progress      Synchronization of
reports, quarterly    project inputs: flow
reports., annual reports  of funds. provision
of training,
Improve service quality   *   Percentage of inpatients and outpatients in institutions under  Annual plans    development of
and effectiveness at          the project receiving diagnostic tests from 10% at baseline, to                  norms and
district, sub-divisional and  15% at mid-term, and 30% at end of project                Project MIS data       contractual
community hospitals.      *   Increase number of districts utilizing community-level data                      arrangements.
including drug                from 0 at baseline. by 20% at mid-term, and by 100% at end of   Project Baseline
management. training,         project                                                   Survey
Quality Assurance.        *   Increase number of medical staff trained (clinical, management,
monitoring and evaluation     IEC, MIS, maintenance, referral. waste management) and
and management of             nurnber of training courses held under the project according to                  Supply of qualified
hospital waste                plan from 0% at baseline, to 50% at mid-term, and to 100% at                     personnel.
end of project                                                                  particularly in
*   Increase number of institutions under project to introduce waste                remote areas.
management practices based on agreed plan from 0 at baseline.
by 20% at mid-term, by 60% by June 30, 2003 and by 80% at
encl of project
*   Total number of civil works grounded would be 70% at mid-
term, and 100% completion of civil works at end of project
*   Patient turnover rate
*   Bed occupancy                                                                   Timely start-up of
*   Average length of stay                                                          training programs
*   Curmulative inpatient days                                                      and of construction
*   Number of outpatients per bed day                                               activities.
*   Admissions during a given time period                                            Procurement of
*   Percentage of post-operative case fatalities                                    drugs. equipment
*   Percentage of infection acquired at hospital                                    and other inputs.
*   Upgradation of clinical, management and equipment
maintenance skills
*   Staffing, equipment and medicines norms met at each facility
*   Availability of essential drugs
*   Maintenance of equipment. furniture and other supplies
Improve access to basic
health services, including    *   Increase in awareness of services offered at district and sub-
upgrading community           divisional hospitals among total community. women and STs
health centers, promoting     from 20% among women and 10% among STs at baseline. to
health services for tribal    30% at mid-term, and to 60% at end of project
and disadvantaged groups,
IEC and improving the    *   Awareness among doctors of functioning of referral system
referral system          .   Awareness among target group of services offered



18
Annex 2
Page I of 7
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
Project Description
Project Component I - US$9.06 million (I 1% of total base costs): Management Development and Institutional
Strengthening
1.     Improving the Institutional Framework for Policy Development:  Sectoral capacity for policy
development would be strengthened in the state through the strengthening of the Policy and Strategic Planning Unit
(PSPU) and headed by the Advisor, Health Reforms who would report directly to the Secretary, DOHFW. The
function of the PSPU would be to develop and review health policy for Orissa by commissioning studies,
workshops and seminars and by directly hiring consultants to facilitate these activities. Key issues to be researched
would include, but not be limited to, monitoring the development of the public and private health sector, reviewing
the suitability of present regulations relating to the quality of private and public care, evaluating the burden of
disease and cost-effectiveness of public health interventions and reviewing medical manpower. In addition, the
PSPU would review implementation of the cost recovery mechanism, the targeting of beneficiaries for exemption,
and sectoral resource allocation patterns. Under this sub-component, the project would finance vehicles, equipment
including computers, furniture, local training, studies, fellowships, workshops, consultants, operational expenses
and salaries of incremental staff on a declining basis.
2.     Strengthening Management and Implementation Capacity:  The project will be managed and
implemented by the state's DOHFW, and specific administrative responsibilities have been assigned to the state,
zonal and district levels. Project management arrangements have taken into account the existing organizational set-
up and implementation capacity at DOHFW, the health programs currently being implemented by the DOHFW and
the overall set-up of public administration in the state, particularly with regard to the nature of decentralized
administration in the state. A Project Review Committee (PRC) will provide strategic direction. It will be chaired
by the Chief Secretary, and have as members the Secretaries of Health, Finance, Public Works, Rural Development,
Environment and Urban Development Departments; the Project Director; the Director Health Services (DHS); the
Advisor, Health Policy and a representative of the PSPU. The PRC will be empowered to make major policy
decisions and develop the broad policy outline for the project; approve the annual budget; authorize major project
revisions as necessary; ratify decisions of the Steering Committee; and undertake an annual review of project
implementation and monitor overall project progress. The PRC will meet twice a year or as necessary.
3.     Reporting to the PRC would be the Steering Committee, which would oversee and monitor project
implementation, undertake project planning, and facilitate project management. It would be chaired by the
Secretary, DOHFW, and have as members the Project Director; the DHS; the DFW; the Director, SIHFW; the
Director, Medical Education and Training; the Advisor, Health Policy; representatives of the four units of the
Project Management Cell (PMC); and representatives of the Finance, Rural Development, Public Works and Urban
Development departments. The Steering Committee will meet at least once in a quarter and more often if necessary.
4.     The PMC would be headed by a Special Secretary or an Additional Secretary as the Project Director. The
Project Director will work in close coordination with the DHS, and under the guidance of the Secretary, DOHFW,
in implementing project activities. The functions of the PMC would include all aspects of routine project
management, monitoring progress, maintaining flow-of-funds and project account, providing technical guidance
and general administration, and preparing progress reports. The PMC would consist of 4 units: (i) the Health Unit
will plan, implement and monitor all health related activities; (ii) the Engineering Unit will be responsible for
implementing civil works and equipment management; (iii) the Finance and Accounts Unit will be responsible for
financial management of the project, including disbursements, flow of funds, maintenance of accounts of receipts
and expenditures; and (iv) the Administrative Unit will assist the Project Director in routine administration. The
PMC would monitor project implementation, and maintain and regularly update relevant databases to facilitate
implementation. The PMC would report on a monthly basis to a Project Board, consisting of the Secretary,
DOHFW, DHS, DFW, with the Project Director as Member Secretary, which would guide the PMC in project
implementation activities and report to the Steering Committee.



19
Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
5.     At the district level, an existing Zilla Swasthya Samithi (District Health Committee) would be involved in
the monitoring and supervision of the various activities to be carried out under the project. The ZSSs would
facilitate the collection and distribution of user charges, maintenance of equipment, waste management, training of
technical staff, qualitv assurance and surveillance of major communicable diseases. The Chief District Medical
Officer (CDMO) (Project) will be a member of the ZSS.
6.     At headquarters in DOHFW, staff would be increased to meet the increased workload and the structure of
DOHFW would be reoriented to meet the new challenges. Parallel improvements and strengthening of the
management and implementation capacity at the zonal, district and facility level would also be undertaken. These
actions would facilitate systems improvement, wider access and improved data collection and utilization for
planning and policy making, problem solving and monitoring at all levels of management, including the facility
level. At the hospital level where both information collection and management are fairly rudimentary, the project
would: (a) enhance the computerized system through the provision of hardware and software, and consultancy
support; (b) establish trained and equipped information cells at HQ and district levels; (c) train all management staff
in appropriate record keeping; and (d) introduce a revised medical reporting system for in-patients and diagnostic
services.
7.     To facilitate the functioning of DOHFW, it is proposed that all DOHFW  staff at the Secretariat and
Directorates be located in the same building, to be known as Swasthya Bhawan. The objective is to house all staff
in a consolidated facility to improve administrative and organizational efficiency and reduce administrative costs
due to delays in communications, additional person-hours spent on movement and unnecessary paperwork. The
present staff strength is about 805, and includes staff from the following institutions: DOHFW, DHS, DMET, DFW
and DIMH, who are housed in several small and inadequate facilities in Bhubaneshwar.
8.     In order to assist medical personnel in updating their knowledge and skills, it is proposed that an
information resource center based in Bhubaneshwar under the DOHFW be established. A proposal for an
Information Resource Center has been developed on the basis of analysis undertaken by DFID and reviewed by
IDA. The center will aim to provide information services to about 13,000 health professionals in Orissa with books,
periodicals, CD-ROMs and internet connection. The center will be located in the State Capital Hospital, and
technical consultancy for setting up the center will be provided by the British Council. Under this sub-component,
the project would finance minor civil works, professional services, furniture, other equipment including computers,
vehicles, other supplies, MIS/IEC materials, studies, workshops, local training, fellowships, operational expenses
and salaries of incremental staff on a declining basis.
9.     Financial Management and Auditing Arrangements: The PMC will design, develop and maintain a
computerized Project Financial Management System capable of providing timely and reliable information to
DOHFW and project management staff to monitor the project's progress towards its agreed objectives based on the
following guidelines: (a) a separate budget head with appropriate sub-heads would be created under the Annual
Budget document of GOO to capture all project related expenditures; (b) the accounting system would reflect
component-wise and category-wise expenditures, produce financial reports that show actual versus budgeted
expenditures for the current period and to date, and provide costing information. It would also capture information
regarding the method of procurement so that the limits of procurement laid down in the Procurement Schedule in
the Project Agreement are properly monitored. The system would generate the Schedule of Withdrawal of Proceeds
(Form 1B) and the Statement of Expenditure (Form IC) required for submission to IDA, as Administrator of ITF,
for withdrawal of credit; and (c) the Project Financial Management System will map the financial data with the
physical data for measuring the performance of the project. PMC will prepare and furnish to IDA a project financial
report on a quarterly basis.
10.    Project Financial Statements so compiled would be audited annually in accordance with standards of
auditing acceptable to IDA by an independent auditor. The audit of project accounts would include an assessment
of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems, ability to maintain adequate documentation for
transactions, and eligibility of expenditures for ITF financing. The audited Project Financial Statements including a
summary of Statement of Expenditure disbursements together with auditor's opinion on it would be submitted to
IDA not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year. The audit report on Special Account (SA)
maintained by the Department of Economic Affairs would include a summary of SA transactions and the closing



20
Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
balance held by the Reserve Bank of India. The audit report on SA would be submitted to IDA not later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year.
11.    Staffing. Considering the scale of the investment, the PMC would have a separate Finance and Accounting
Unit with a full time dedicated finance and accounts professional to head it. S/he would be responsible for financial
accounting, reporting, submission of withdrawal requests to the Bank and funds management. S/he will be assisted
by two full time account and audits officers. S/he will be a qualified accountant and experienced finance
professional. PMC may appoint the Head of the Finance Unit on contractual terms.
12.    Training. Training in (i) project financial management for the Head of the Finance Unit and Accounts
Officer/Audit Officer for one week in India; (ii) Bank reimbursement procedures for the Head of the Finance Unit,
Accounts Officer/Audits Officer; and (iii) computerized financial accounting and management for all accounting
staff will be provided. This training will be provided by the financial management systems consultant as part of the
design and development assignment.
13.    Funds Flow Arrangements. Budget estimates for project activities prepared by the PMC will be included
in totality in the budget proposals presented to the legislature for approval. The Finance Department will ensure that
funds are released in a timely manner. In addition, it is understood that GOI will release 25% of the annual
expenditures as estimated by the PMC as advance ACA to GOO at the beginning of each fiscal year. Thereafter,
GOI will release funds to GOO, within a month from the date of withdrawal of funds from the Special Account by
the Controller of Aids Accounts and Audit.
14.    Developing Surveillance Capacity for Major Communicable Diseases and HMIS: A rudimentary
surveillance system is already in place in the state at the primary level. This system needs to be strengthened, and
extended to the secondary level, in order to effectively reduce morbidity and mortality due to communicable
diseases. The surveillance system for major communicable diseases proposed under the project would focus on
seven major communicable diseases in Orissa: malaria, cholera, neonatal tetanus, meningitis, AIDS, TB,
poliomyelitis, measles and hepatitis. The project would strengthen the existing system by: (i) improving data
collection from various facilities; (ii) promoting community involvement in data collection; (iii) strengthening the
capacity to analyze and interpret data at the district level; (iv) strengthening the capacity to promptly respond to
disease outbreaks at the district level; and (v) monitoring the district level reporting and response from the zonal and
state levels.  The system would cover the identification of cases through education of health workers and
community involvement; indexing of cases or isolation of cases and treatment; and tracing of contacts for
monitoring and evaluation. Explicit criteria for monitoring these communicable diseases would be set to avoid any
ambiguity in reporting by different agencies.
15.    It is proposed to strengthen capacity at the district level by establishing a "task force" consisting of an
Assistant Health Officer, Health Supervisor, Laboratory Technician and attendant, working under the supervision of
the Additional District Medical Officer (Public Health). The task force would be responsible for selected disease
surveillance activities in each district. Three Zonal Joint Directors will be appointed to supervise the activities of
the task forces in the districts under their purview. At the state level, the State Epidemiologist would monitor the
activities of the district task forces and coordinate with the zonal level. Emphasis has been placed on a community-
based system for early detection and reporting and the full participation of local level institutions working at the
village or community level will be necessary to make the system fully effective. It is proposed that an earlier
system of "health informants" in each village will be revived and such informants will be trained to identify and
report epidemic outbreaks. Village leaders such as Sarpanches, school teachers, anganwadi workers etc. will be
appointed as the informants. Private medical practitioners and private institutions will also be included through
workshops and training programs. To improve the system, quick containment measures have been developed even
in the case of a single incidence to prevent possible outbreak of the disease identified in the priority list. Under this
sub-component, the project would finance minor civil works, professional services, furniture, other equipment and
supplies, MIS/IEC materials, local training, operational expenses and salaries of incremental staff on a declining
basis.



21
Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
Project Component 2 - US$46.35 million (58% of total base costs): Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness
at District, Sub-divisional and Area Hospitals
16.    Upgrading Area, Sub-divisional and District Hospitals:  19 area, 20 sub-divisional and 32 district
hospitals will be renovated/extended under the project. There would not be any new hospitals built under the
project, and the state government has confirmed that all premises slated for renovation/extension have existing land.
Details of the construction program to be undertaken, based on a survey of all existing facilities, are provided in Part
lb of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). 1889 new beds will be added to the existing bed strength of 4811
beds. The proposed increase in bed strength is justified on the basis of: (i) epidemiological data; (ii) indicators of
existing and proposed hospital activity, such as bed occupancy rate, turnover rate, and out-patient/in-patient ratio;
and (iii) Planning Commission norms for beds at the first referral level. The proposed increase in bed strength
under the project is less than what is suggested by these criteria. Staff quarters would also be built in areas where
housing is a problem for staff. Under .his sub-component the project would finance civil works, professional
services, equipment, building maintenance and operational expenses.
17.    Upgrading the Effectiveness of Clinical, Management and Support Services at District, Sub-
divisional and Area Hospitals: Streamlined norms and standards for clinical and support services developed
during project preparation would be applied at the first referral hospitals. Staffing norms conforming to services
that will be provided at each type of facility would be adopted, a system for monitoring improvements in the quality
of clinical care would be established through the adoption of a quality assurance program and the capacity of
support services would be expanded. Staff skills in clinical and technical areas would be enhanced through the
provision of training to improve the quality and range of services. Management training for professional cadres and
on-going in-service training for clinical and technical cadres would also be strengthened. This would facilitate the
implementation of the quality improvement strategy of the project. Within six months of upgrading each facility,
staffing and technical norrns would be adopted to ensure improved quality of services. Under this sub-component
the project would finance iminor civil works, professional services, furniture, medical and other equipment, medical
laboratory and other supplies, medicines, vehicles, MIS/lEC materials, local training, studies, workshops,
fellowships, consultants, equipment and building maintenance, operational expenses and salaries of additional staff
on a decreasing basis.
18.    Drug Management:  The existing system  for the procurement and distribution of drugs has several
problems. Delays are common in the finalization of lists and rate contracts and in releasing funds to the districts; as
a result, there are delays in payments to suppliers and substantial gaps between need and supply. A new drug
procurement arrangement has been under implementation since August 5, 1997 and has been elaborated in the PIP.
This arrangement adopts, with minor exceptions, an open tender system in which purchase orders are being
centralized at the state level and which (i) allows for purchase of drugs in generic names only from manufacturers
and not through agents; and (ii) qualifies manufacturers on the basis of good manufacturing practice certification,
good market standing for at least three years, and a prescribed minimum turnover to eliminate very small firms
which would not be able to keep up prescribed delivery schedules. Quality testing of each batch of drugs would be
undertaken at designated testing laboratories, and payments made after quality assurance. Training in rational drug
prescription has been included in the training curricula. An essential drug list has been prepared, and a drug list for
each type of facility has also been developed. These will be updated each year.
19.    Health Management Information System (HMIS): A well-functioning HMIS would be established to
improve program performance and ensure effective monitoring, regular information flows and timely feedback
mechanisms by bringing together information collected under different health programs. The HMIS would gather
data on five broad areas: civil works, equipment, drugs, major communicable diseases and hospital activity. There
are currently two major statistical cells in the DOHFW: the State Bureau of Health Intelligence under the DHS and
the Demography and Evaluations Cell under the DFW. There are also statistical cells related to specific national
programs like malaria, leprosy, TB, goiter control and AIDS. The flows of information from the concerned
statistical cells and program officers are independent of one another, and need to be integrated to provide
comprehensive information. This will be done by appointing a Joint Director (Statistics) under the project. In
addition, the project would: (i) improve the HMIS by developing standard formats for hospital record-keeping,
improving storage facilities for medical records, and providing training for medical records personnel;



22
Annex 2
Page S of 7
(ii) strengthen district level capacity for data analysis by providing training to district HMIS staff in data analysis
and computer use, and providing appropriate equipment and supplies; and (iii) train state level personnel in data
analysis.
20.     Training: The training program proposed under the project can be broadly categorized into: (i) hospital
management training, aimed at improving the managerial competency of health personnel in secondary institutions
in areas such as planning, organization, coordination and program implementation; (ii) clinical training, aimed at
providing specialized and quality health care at secondary hospitals through the training of doctors, nurses and
paramedical personnel; and (iii) clinical trainers training, to orient clinical trainers in participatory and interactive
training approaches, task analysis, standardization of operative steps, and the creation of positive training climates.
A Training Needs Assessment has been completed and a detailed training plan for the entire project period is
presented in Annex 14 of the PIP.
21.     Quality Assurance (QA): The QA program will cover issues such as clinical quality, user satisfaction,
gender needs and management of resources. Two districts, Phulbani and Khurda, have been identified as pilot sites
for the QA program in the first year of project implementation, after which the program will be extended to the
whole state. The QA program will consist of the following components: (i) a Quality Assurance Committee will be
set up to develop a policy framework for the QA program. The committee would identify influential opinion
leaders involved in health care delivery at hospitals, plan a systematic program of consensus building among them,
identify priority areas, and identify working groups that will work on selected areas of specialty; and (ii) Quality
Assurance Working Groups will be established to work on the details of each area of specialty and design quality
assessment tools, conduct evaluations of the current quality of services, develop guidelines for the implementation
of QA programs, and monitor the implementation of the QA program in the pilot districts. The Joint Director,
Hospitals will supervise the QA program at the state level, and the Additional CDMO would oversee the program at
the district level. An appropriate training program for hospital staff has been planned.
22.    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): M&E strategies have been planned keeping in mind the development
objectives of the project, the duration and the mode of implementation. Appropriate formats have been designed,
and the HMIS will be used to collect and update the necessary inforrnation. The PMC will be primarily responsible
for monitoring and evaluation. The focus will be on civil works, equipment, maintenance, manpower, QA, training,
waste management, tribal strategy, HMIS and [EC. A baseline survey will be undertaken at the start of the project
to ascertain the existing conditions of physical infrastructure and services, and customer use and satisfaction. A
mid-term evaluation will be taken up in the third year of project implementation, focusing on improvements in
hospital activity, impact of the secondary level upgradation on the primary health care system, the functioning of the
referral system, user satisfaction, and increased use of hospital services by tribal peoples. The final evaluation will
be done in the last year, and would focus on the achievement of the development objectives of the project, areas that
still need support, sustainability and future directions.
23.    Management of Health Care Waste: The management of health care waste is an important element in
providing quality health care. Risks of improper disposal of health care waste are several, including: occupational
health hazard to doctors, staff, attendants and patients; breeding ground of rodents, mosquitoes and flies and
attracting stray animals; source of foul odors; blocking of sewers, drains, and general unhygienic conditions in
hospital premises; and increased risk of transmission of diseases from handling and disposal. The hazards posed by
hospital wastes are recognized by the government. The government has constituted a high-level inter-disciplinary
working group under the Secretary, DOHFW. The government's plan proposes a three phase approach. The first
phase (short term), to be implemented within the first six months of the project, would focus on the immediate
reduction in hazards from health care waste by the introduction of low cost/no cost measures such as simple
segregation to remove sharps and infected waste, and secure on-site storage to reduce scavenging. The second
phase (medium term) would include (i) scale up measures, such as fuller segregation and limited on-site treatment,
including needle crushers; (ii) formation of an inter-disciplinary working group, with a small task force, to
implement agreed measures; (iii) survey of waste arising and technological options; (iv) appraisal of options and
cost-benefit analysis, where possible, for each hospital; and (v) design and implementation of training program. In
order to evaluate the available options for properly managing infectious and hazardous waste, a study will be
initiated within the first year of project implementation to collect the necessary additional information. Based on
this, the third phase (long term) would be developed, which would focus on completion of options appraisal,



23
Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
development of appropriate management systems, implementation of clinical waste management plans and
implementation of the full training program. A waste management team will be constituted for each hospital, and
the members will be sensitized and trained for the implementation of interim and long-term measures.
Project Component 3 - US$24.86 million (31% of total base costs): Improving Access to Basic Health Services
24.    Selective Upgrading of Community Health Centers (CHCs): The burden of disease study in Orissa
shows that 62% of BOD measured in terms of DALYs is attributable to communicable diseases and pregnancy
related conditions, 22%  to non-communicable diseases, and 16% to accidents and injuries.  This share of
communicable diseases is 10 percentage points higher than the average for India, and data indicate that the infant
mortality and maternal rmortality rates are also substantially higher than all-India averages. This analysis clearly
points to a need to strengthen access to basic health services in the state, and enhance capacity at the community
hospital and community center level to address reproductive health concerns as well as the main causes of childhood
mortality. It is proposed that 37 CHCs would be strengthened under the project, including renovation and
extension, additional manpower, and the provision of equipment, drugs and other supplies. The proposed extension
program would include an additional 624 beds, labor room, OT, diagnostic block, provision of water supply,
sewerage and installation of a solid waste management system. Due to an acute shortage of housing in these areas, a
limited number of staff quarters are proposed at each CHC. An additional 48 Block PHCs will be upgraded and
called CHC-2. The extension program will upgrade these PHCs to 16-bedded CHCs, for a total increase of 480
beds, with rooms for specialists, continuous water supply, meeting hall, MIS/IEC room, store, dispensing room,
immunization room and space for administrative work.
25.    Promoting Heallth Services for Tribal and Disadvantaged Groups: About 22% of the state's population
is tribal. The majority of the tribals live in the districts of Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Koraput, Phulbani and
Sundargarh. The prevalence of some diseases among this population is surprisingly high: for example, the
percentage of P. Falciparum cases to all malaria cases in these districts was as high as 85.4% (1992), 84.9% (1993),
85.6% (1994) and 89% (1995). The incidence of meningitis, diarrheal disease, respiratory infections, malnutrition,
STD, infant and maternal deaths, sickle cell anemia and G-6-PD deficiency are also very high. A beneficiary
assessment study has been undertaken as part of project preparation to: (i) identify through inforrned participation
the health care needs of tribal communities and constraints in provision of these needs; and (ii) recommend plans for
delivering adequate and quality health care for members of these communities. The beneficiary assessment was
undertaken with strong collaboration between the IDA team; DFID; local research organizations; state government
officials; local government; and representatives of NGOs and the private sector. The study indicates that the
utilization of secondary and primary health services in these areas is low due to problems with physical, economic
and social access of the tribals to health services.
26.    The project's tribal strategy would be aimed at increasing the demand for primary health services in tribal
areas by improving the quality of services and providing effective IEC to better informn tribal populations of the
benefits of using government health services. In addition, the project would: (a) strengthen linkages between
primary and secondary health care services; (b) provide an incentive package to doctors in tribal areas to encourage
them to accept assignment: in these areas; (c) increase access to health care services through the provision of mobile
health clinics and annual health camps; and (d) reduce the cost of utilizing these services. A baseline survey and
periodic surveys would be conducted to facilitate the on-going monitoring and evaluation of the strategy, and an
appropriate action plan would be developed to address the issues identified by the M&E mechanism.
27.    Information, Education and Communication (IEC): The IEC component of the project will serve as a link
between the various activities of the project, such as the referral mechanism, the tribal strategy, waste management
system and the surveillance system. The broad objectives of the IEC program proposed under the project are to: (i)
create community awareness regarding the availability of health services at primary and secondary level institutions,
and the need for the timely use of such services; (ii) improve attitudes of health care providers towards patients and
educate them with regard to the referral mechanism; (iii) educate people's representatives so as to generate political
support to improve the quality of health care; and (iv) provide feedback to the government with regard to consumer
satisfaction. The target groups will be: government functionaries at the grassroots level; underserved populations,
including women, SCs and STs; patients at the hospitals; health care workers and hospital staff; and private



24
Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
practitioners and NGOs. The strategy will be implemented by an in-house IEC Committee, chaired by the head of
each secondary level institution, to formulate and review hospital IEC policies and activities. An [EC unit will also
be set up at each hospital, managed by a senior staff nurse, and under the guidance of the district health education
officer. A system of continuous education of in-patients and out-patients will be established. In addition, periodic
workshops and seminars will be organized to enhance the knowledge, develop the skills and change the attitudes of
service providers, service users and the community. Knowledge, attitude and practice, and social marketing
research will be undertaken to assess IEC needs.
28.     NGOs would be involved in the implementation of IEC activities and would be contracted to conduct
health camps in tribal blocks. The TORs for the selection of NGOs would follow IDA guidelines. Selection criteria
would be developed based on models used in previous IDA projects.
29.     Improving the Referral System: A referral system, which is an institutional mechanism through which
patients with complex health problems are identified in a timely manner, investigated and/or treated relatively
promptly at an appropriate health care facility, will be strengthened under the project. At present. the referral
system in Orissa, as in the rest of India, does not function well. Patients perceive the lower level facilities as
providing poor quality of services. As a result, the lower tiers are underutilized and patients directly proceed to
higher level hospitals for minor illnesses, thereby overloading the higher level institutions. It is estimated that a
third of all cases which are currently treated at tertiary facilities could be treated, and at lower costs, at first referral
facilities if those facilities received adequate inputs; and many of the cases treated at district hospitals could be
treated at CHCs.
30.     The project would seek to ensure that a much higher proportion of patients coming to first referral hospitals
had been seen at PHCs and CHCs and referred upwards. Likewise, for those patients going to tertiary hospitals, the
project would implement several measures to strengthen the referral system and improve the quality of care at the
first referral level. These include: (a) strengthening the management of the referral system; (b) implementing the
referral protocols that specify the "what", "when" and "how" of referrals; (c) implementing clinical management
protocols that specify the essential processes of clinical management by staff who manage common conditions
without the direct supervision of relevant specialists; and (d) establishing an incentive system, with differentiated
user fees for users and non-users and allowing patients to by-pass waiting lines when they carry a referral slip.
Special attention would also be given to establishing mechanisms to improve access for remote and disadvantaged
groups and tribal communities. The project would establish linkages and communications between the first referral
and primary health care levels. The first referral hospitals would provide clinical and technical support to the PHCs;
clinical skills at first referral facilities would be updated and upgraded; technical support for the primary level of
care and community hospitals would be strengthened; referral mechanisms between community, subdivisional and
district hospitals would be strengthened: and mechanisms to provide greater access to secondary and higher levels
of health care would be formulated by making the referral system more timely, effective and client-friendly. Under
this sub-component the project would finance vehicles (purchase, hire and maintenance), other supplies, MIS and
IEC materials, local training, consultants, fellowships, workshops and operational expenses.



25
Annex 3
Page 1 of5
Arr8_:0. 11998
From: Mls. Meena Gupta
Commissioner-cum-Secretarv
Health and Family Welfare Department
Government of Orissa
Bhubaneswar
Orissa
INDIA
To:   Mr. Edwin, Lim
Country Director, India
South AsizL Region
The World. Bank
Resident Mission
P.O. Box 416
New Delhi.
INDIA
Subject: Orissa Health Systems Development Project
The Government of Orissa have proposed to IDA a project for the development of
health systems in Orissa with special focus on secondary and community level hospitals.
In this connection. I am happy to send to you a policy matrix reflecting Government
decisions on various issues relating to health sector reform.
Yours faithfully,
(Meena Gupta)
cc: V6. Tawhid Nawaz, Task Team Leader, The World Bank
Shri K.B. Verma, Principal Secretary Finance, GOO



26
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY MATRIX
ISSUE                           EFFECT                               PROPOSED CHANGE OR ACTION
Adequacy of the     The share of the health and family welfare sector  Recognizing that the provision of basic health services is
overall size of the   is about 5.27% of the State revenue budget and    essential for poverty alleviation and enhancement of
health budget to    1.14% of GDP in 1995-96. The budgetary        productivity, Government will ensure that in each fiscal
meet public health   allocations are not enough to provide for    year during the implementation of the project, the share of
goals.              effective and quality health care at the primary    the overall budget (plan and non-plan), excluding all
and secondary levels including a package of   projects specifically financed either through external
clinical and curative services.               assistance or by way of loan from financial institutions
allocated to the health sector, shall be maintained at least
at the level allocated in the financial year 1996-97.
Inadequate          Within the health sector the lower share of   The State Government recognizes the need for focusing
allocation for      expenditure on the primary and secondary levels  attention on the primary and secondary levels of health
primary and         has resulted in a shortage of drugs, equipment  care, and to step up the allocation to the primary and
secondary level     and other materials, in the primary and       secondary levels. The Government will ensure that
health care        secondary level institutions. and poor         within the health sector the share of resources for the
services in the     maintenance of buildings and equipment. This    primary and secondary levels of health care services
State budget.       has, in turn resulted in overburdening of the  shall be increased in each fiscal year throughout the
tertiary level services, as patients seek from  project, starting in fiscal year 1997-98.
tertiary institutions, treatment which could easily
be given at the primary or secondary level.
Redressal of        The tribal districts of Orissa viz., Koraput,  Interventions will be made both within and outside the
regional            Malkangiri. Rayagada, Nawarangpur. Gajapati,   project to reduce the disparities between the health status
imbalances.         Phulbani, Sundargarh. Nawapara, Keonjhar and    of people in the tribal and remote districts and those in
Mayurbhanj and the western districts of       the more developed areas. People in tribal districts will
Kalahandi show poor health indicators due to  be encouraged to seek health care in medical institutions.
uneven development of health and other
infrastructure, and inadequate delivery of         Changes are being introduced in the personnel
services.                                     policy to encourage doctors to serve in tribal and remote
rural areas.
- Existing rules already provide for an initial mandatory
posting of 3 years in tribal and backward areas but this is
not usually enforced. This will be effectively enforced.
- In remote areas where regular doctors are reluctant to
go, doctors will be appointed on contract basis.
- Additional marks are being given in the P.G. entrance
examination to those doctors who serve for 3 years in
tribal and backward areas.
- Doctors employed in these areas on contract or ad hoc
basis will be given additional weightage in marks if they
apply for regular employment in the Government.
- It is proposed to make one year of service in tribal and
backward areas mandatory for doctors for admission into
any P.G. course in the State.
- Under the project it is proposed to provide a financial
incentive of Rs.400 P.M. to doctors who serve in single
doctor institutions in tribal areas. This will increase the
motivation of doctors to serve in these areas.



27
Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
Quality of, and     The quality of medical services is unsatisfactory   Government is committed to improving quality and
access to, hospital   and access to such services limited, especially    access by: (i) upgrading and expanding physical capacity;
services.          for disadvantaged groups in the population,    (ii) upgrading clinical effectiveness and quality of
such as Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and   services at the community, sub-district and district level;
women.                                        (iii) improving the referral system; and (iv) improving
staffing and technical norms.
Personnel          Improvement of services at the hospitals is    In addition to the personnel policy changes meant to
largely dependant on the workforce, its quality   rectify regional imbalances indicated against item 3,
and quantity. The staff sanctioned at the     other changes in personnel policy will also be introduced.
hospitals does not always match the needs. In
addition absenteeism of doctors in remote rural   Doctors will be posted in remote or accessible areas
areas is a major problem.                     according to the years of service put in, with the younger
and junior persons working in the more remote and
Doctors in the government generally get    inaccessible areas.
their first promotion after 25 - 26 years. This is
much later than other government employees.    Higher level positions are proposed to be created both
Consequently morale and incentive to work is    under this project as well as outside by upgrading some
low.                                          of the existing posts. This will give better promotional
opportunities to the doctors. and will boost morale.
MBB'S doctors, though qualified, are
reluctant to undertake duties such as         The number of specialist services at the CHC level will
administering anaesthesia, or undertaking     be increased.
surgery, even in emergency cases because they
may be prosecuted for any untoward            Even after 5 years it may not be possible to meet some of
happening,                                   the current specialist needs e.g. in anaesthesia.
Government is therefore contemplating introducing a
There is also an acute shortage of nursing    diploma course in anaesthesia, offering special incentives
personnel.                                   to diploma holders and giving legal protection to MBBS
doctors who undertake/administer surgery/anaesthesia in
emergencies.
Strategic planning.  Inadequate strategic planning activity in the  The capacity for strategic planning is proposed to be
health sector has resulted in sub-optimal use of   enhanced through the setting up of a unit called the
resources.                                    Policy and Strategic Planning Unit (PPU) as part of the
DFID(ODA) funded health project. The PPU will
essentially be a think tank and will report to the
Secretary, Health and Family Welfare. It will either
directly undertake or will commission specific studies
and research with a view to suggest appropriate health
sector reform and to improve health care services. This
Policy and Planning Unit will be further strengthened
under the proposed Orissa Health Systems Project,
specifically with a view to undertaking studies in key
areas of the health sector and supporting policy reformn.
Drug purchase and   The existing system of approving suppliers and   The drug purchase system will be centralized so that
distribution.       prices of drugs at the State level and permitting    orders can be placed and payments made centrally either
purchases to be made at the district level results  through the department or through a corporation. This
in delays, low cost efficiency and difficulties in   will ensure better quality control and more efficient use of
supply.                                       scarce resources.



28
Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
The role of the     The health services development strategy of the   Legislation to regulate private clinical establishments
private sector and    Govemment has not taken into account the    already exists in the shape of three laws: i) the Orissa
voluntary           scope and coverage of health services provided    Clinical Establishment (Control & Regulation) Act 1990
organisations.      by the non-govemment sector.                  (a State Act); ii) the Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques
(Regulation and Prevention of Misuse) Act 1994 (a
Central Act; and iii) the Medical Termination of
Pregnancy Act 1971 (a Central Act). These Acts will be
effectively enforced, and services offered in the private
sector will be monitored with a view to improving the
quality of such services. Referrals between private
primary care and public secondary care, diagnosis and
treatment will be encouraged.
Contracting out     At present, hospital support services are by and    The cleaning of one district level hospital, the Capital
services.          large maintained by regular staff employed for    Hospital, Bhubaneswar has been contracted out on a pilot
this purpose. These employees have not        basis. The results have been extremely encouraging, and
provided efficient support services, resulting in    will be replicated elsewhere in a phased manner. Other
unclean hospitals, poor maintenance of bedding,  services that are proposed to be contracted out are
clothing and linen, etc.                     laundry, catering and security services. The Department
of Health and Family Welfare will monitor the cost
effectiveness and quality of these services.
The role of the     NGO participation in health care at all levels,  On an experimental basis, NGOs are being encouraged to
NGO sector.         especially at the levels of public health and first   operate government health facilities in remote areas,
referral, needs to be supported and encouraged,   where Govemment health personnel is reluctant to go or
with a special focus on the backward and      irregular in attendance. The experiment which has been
remote regions of the State.                 taken up in one district of Orissa so far (Kalahandi) will
be extended to other districts as well. This will ensure the
outreach of health services to the sections of the
population living in remote areas. NGO participation will
be encouraged in public health programmes and in IEC
activities.
User charges.       Most of the services in public health institutions   From July 1997, user charges have been enhanced
are provided free of cost. Nominal fees were  substantially, in the district hospitals and tertiary
earlier charged for a few services and the    hospitals, keeping in mind the market costs. The charges
revenue collected was deposited in the        are still only for a limited number of services. viz., special
Government treasury. These funds did not go   accommodation, diagnostic tests, and transport, but the
back to the institutions.                     enhancement is expected to bring in considerable revenue.
The poor constituting approximately 40% of the State's
population are exempted from payment. Arrangements
are in place to ensure that this entire income is available
for utilisation to the medical institution concerned, in
particular non-salary recurrent costs. The income eamed
does not go to general Govemment revenues.
Safeguarding the    The existing secondary and primary hospitals  The State Govemment will make adequate provision in
operations and      face operational difficulties and function poorly  the health budget for drugs and other medical supplies,
maintenance         because of the inadequacy of non-salary       and for maintenance of equipment and buildings.
component of the    recurrent costs.                              Changes in procurement and maintenance systems will be
health budget.                                                    introduced to ensure greater availability of resources for
non-salary recurrent costs.



29
Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
Reduction of       The single most important health problem facing    Linkages will be established with the RCH Project,
infant mortality   the State is the high infant mortality rate. Though   UNICEF supported training programmes and other
rate (IMR).        the IMR is declining, it is doing so very slowly.  programmes that can reduce IMR, such as the National
Maternity Benefit Scheme. the ICDS Programme etc.
Gender issues.      Due to social and economic reasons utilisation of   Women's utilisation of hospital services both for
hospital services by women, is lower than by men   maternity and life cycle health matters will be increased
if general health services and maternity services  by targeting l.E.C. activities at them. As far as possible
are separately looked at. Improved utilisation can    one woman doctor will be posted in a CHC to
significantly reduce the morbidity and mortality  encourage women to use the hospital services.
among women.
Poverty            About 40% of the population of Orissa is below  The Government of Orissa is committed to poverty
alleviation.       the poverty line. In this group, health indicators    reduction by improving the health status and thereby the
such as mortality and morbidity rates are      productivity and earning potential of disadvantaged
especially adverse.                            groups (SC/ST and women).



Orissa Health Sysleiiz.) Development Project
COST E [i rlMATES
Table 1. Componentti IProject Cost Summary
(Rupee Milion)                                   (US$ Milliol)
%      % Total                                 %      % Total
Foroign    Base                                Foreiirn    Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange  Costs    Local   Forelgn   Total  Exchom90  Costs
t. Management Development & Institutional Strengthening
la - Strengthening nsbtutional Frameworik. Management and Implementaion Capacity   237.58     4044      278.02     1500      9.00     609       1 04     7 13     1slbn      900
lb - Disease Surveillance and MIS                                                  60.30      13.47     73.17      18 o0     2.00      1.59     0.35     1 93      18 c0     2 00
Subtotal                                                                             297.87     53.92     351.79     16.00     11.00     7.68     1.38     906       15,;0     11.00
2. Improve Service Quality, Access and Effectivene.
2a-UpgradingArea. Sub.Divisional andDistrict tospitals                             968.17    31581    1283.98      25.00     4100    24.82      810      3292     2u.       41.00
2b. Upgrade Effectiveness, Clinical, Management and Support Services               45320      70.37     523.57     13.00     17.00    11.62     1.80     13.42     13 (.0    17.00
Subtotal                                                                             1421.3C    386.19    1807.55    21.00     58.00    36.45     9.90     46.35     21 00     58.00
3. Improving Basic tHealth ServIces at the Community Level
3a. Selecdve Upgrading of Community Health Centers                                 672.10    156.80    828.90      19.00     26.00    17.23     4.02     21.25     1-. .d    26 00
3b. Promoling Health Services in Tribal Areas and Disadvantaged Groups             46.90      15.91     62.81      2500      2.00      1.20     0.41     1.61     2500       2.00
3c. Improve Referral System                                                        35.44      42.36     77.80      54.00     2 00      0.91     1.09     1.99     54 *o      2 00
Subtotal                                                                             754.44    215.07    969.51      22.00     31.00    19.34     5.51     24.86     22 00     31.00
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                 2473.68    655.17    3128.85     21.00    100.00    63.46    16.80    80.27     21 ;i)    100.00
Physical Contingencies                                                             220.56     65.29     285 85     23 00     9.00      5.66     1.67     7.33     23 eo      9 00
Price Contingencies                                                                560.53    180.56    741.09      24.00     24.00     174      137      3.11     44 1       400
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                  3254.71    901.02    4155.79     22.00    133,00    70.86    19.84    90.70     22uo0    113.00            0
'a,
40>
10
co x



Table 2. Componenits by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Orissa Health Systems
Development Project                                                                                                                      Loc..i
(;oO              ITF             Total             For.   (Ex -l.  Duties &
Amuount    %    Amount    %       Amount    %        Exch.   Taxe")   Taxes
1. Management Development & Institutional Strengthening
1a - Strengthening Institutional Framework, Management and Implementation Capacity  1.26    15.80    6.73    84.20    7.99  8.80  1.22  6 44    0.34
lb - Disease Surveillance and MIS                                         0.59    28.20    1.52    71.80    2.11     2.30     0.40     1 61     0.10
Subtotal                                                                    1 86    18.40    8.25    81.60    10.10    11.10    1.62     8.04     0.44
2. Improve Service Quality, Access and Effectivenes
2a -Upgrading Area, Sub-Divisional and District Hospitals                 471     12.50    32.87    87.50    37.54    41.40    9.57    25fl1    2.16
2b. Upgrade Effectiveness, Clinical, Management and Support Services      3 19   .21.30    11.76    78.70    14.95    16.50    2.15    12 27    0.53
Subtotal                                                                    7.89    15.00    44.62    85.00    52.53    57.90    11.72    38.08   2.69
3. Improving Basic Health Services at the Community Level
3a. Selective Upgrading of Community Health Centers                       374     15.60    20.23    84.40    23.97    26.40    4.76    18.12     1 09
3b. Promoting Health Services in Tribal Areas and Disadvantaged Groups    0 46    25.00    1.37    75.00    1.83      2.00    0.48     1.23     0.12
3c. Improve Referral ystem                                               035     15.50    1.91    84.50    2.27      2.50    1.26     082      0.18
Subtotal                                                                    4.55    16.20    23.52    83.80    28.07    31.00    6.50    20.18     1.39
Total Disbursement                                                          14.30    15.80    76.40    84.20    90.70   100.00   19.84    66.30    4.52
-u
0)
0 >
x



Table 3. Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(Rs Million)
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
Local
GOO                 ITF                  Total                For.       (Excl.    Duties &
Amount    %         Amount       %       Amount        %       Exch.     Taxes)      Taxes
Investment Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                  46.94    1000      422.42     90.00      409.35     11 30     7381      369 73      2581
Civil Works (New)                        118.15    10.00     1063.38    90.00     1181.53     2840    185.81      93073       64.98
ProfessionalServices                      0.00     0.00      163.26     100.00     10.1.26    3.90      34.15     129.11       0.00
Furniture                                 13.47    10.00     121.21     90.00     1l4.67      320       14.12     111.12       9.43
Medical Equipment                         53 17    1000      478.57     9000       !). 175    12.80    32467      16985       37.22
Equipment (Other)                         8.85     1000       79.63     90g00      mi 48      2.10      18.41      63.88       6.19
Vehicles                                  10.52    10.00      94 72     90 00      loi.24    2.50      79 49      15.23      10 52
Medicines                                 22.27    10.00     200.44     90.00      232.71     540      114.28      9284       15.59
Other Supplies                            7.85     10.00      70.64     90.00      its 49      1.90     0.00       74 56       3.92
MIS/IEC Materials                         0.57     1000       5.15       90.00      :,.t2    0n10       1.49       384         040
Local Training                            0.00      0.00     101.44     100.00     liil.44    2.40      0.00      101.44       000
Studies                                   0.00     0.00       16.48     100.00     16.48      0.40      0.00       16 48       0.00
Fellowships (Local and Foreign)           0.00      0.00      6.57      100 00     ii 57      0 20      5 95       0 63        0.00
Workshops                                 0.00      0 00      4 88      100.00      4 88       0.10     0 00       4 88        0 00
Consultants                               0.00     0.00       42.58     100.00     .12.58      1.00     0 00       42.58       0o00
TotallnvestmentCosts                       281.79     8.90     2871.37     91.10    3153.16     75.90    852 19     2126.89     174.08
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff             210.23    39 00     328.68     61.00     $'38.91     13.00     0 00      538 91      0.00
Operational Expenses                      89.96    36.40     157.35     63.60      2-17.32    6.00      26.02     203.99      17.31
Building Maintenance                      3.86     48.20      4.15      51.80       8 02      0.20      0.85       6 60        0.56
Vehide Maintenance                        0.27     46.00      0.31      54.00       o 58      0.00      0 06       0 48        0.04
Equipment Maintenance                     82.11    39 50     125.69     60.50      207.80     5 00     21.90      171.35      14.55
Total Recurrent Costs                      386.43    3850      61619       61.50    1u02.63     24.10     48.83     921.33      32.46
Total Disbursement                          668.23    16.10    3487.56     83.90     4155.79    100.00    901.02    3048.23     206.54
(D>
a -
o~ 



Table 4. ExpenditRe Accounts by Years
(US$ Million)
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
Totals Including Contingencius
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    Total
Investment Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                 0.69     1.49    2.83     2.57     2.09     0 57    10.25
Civil Works (New)                        1.73     3.75    7.13     6.47     5.27     1.34    25.70
Professional Services                    0.24    0.52     098      0.89     0.73     0.19     3.55
Fumiture                                 0.29     0.58    0,88     0.60     046      0.15     2 96
Medical Equipment                        0.00     3.47    4.73     3.63     0.00     0.00     11.84
Equipment(Other)                         0.19     0.48    0.69     0.40     0.10     0.10     1.97
Vehicles                                 0.46     0.95     0.49    0.50     0.00     0.00     2.41
Medicines                                0.46     0.70    0.95      1.22    1.25     0.25     4.83
Other Supplies                           0.17     0.34    0.52     0.35     0 27     0 09     1 73
MIS/IEC Materials                        0.01     0.04    0.04     0.03     0.01     0.01     0.13
Local Training                           0.22     0.44    0.55     0.56     0.34     0.12     2.23
Studies                                  0.03     0.07    0.09     0.09     0.06     0.02     0.36
Fellowships (Local and Foreign)          0.01     0.03    0.04     0.04     0.02     0.01     0.14
Workshops                                0.01     0.02    0.03     0 03     002      0.01     0.11
Consultants                              0.09     0.18    0.23     0.24     0.14     0.05     0.93
Total Investment Costs                     4.59    13.06    20.19    17.62    10.7e    2.90    69.13
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff             0.55     1.46    228      2.89     341      0.94     11.55
Operational Expenses                     0.52     0.78     1.06    1.35     1.3H     0.28     5.37
Building Maintenance                     000     0.00     0.00     0 03     0.12     0 02     0 16
Vehicle Maintenance                      0 00     0 00     0 00    0 00     0 01     0.00     0.01
Equipment Maintenance                    0 64     065     0.44     0 67     1 6n     0 46     4.48
TotalRecurrentCosts                        1.71     290     3.79     4.95     6.51     1.71    21.57
Total PROJECT COSTS                        6.30    15.96    23.98    22.58    17.2/    4.61     90.70
-o
-o X
CD1



Table 5. Expenditure Accounts by Years, Base Costs
Orissa Heafth Systems                      Base Cost (Rupee Million)            Foreign Exchange                       Base Cost (USS Million)            Foreign Exchange
Delopment Project         1io     2000    2001      2002    2003   2004    Total      %      Amount  19S    2000   2001   2002   2003   2004    Total            %     Amount
Invealnut Costs
Civil Works (Renov)    24.51   52.52    98.04    87.54   70.03   17.51   350.15    15.00    52.52    0.63    1.35    2.51    2.24    1.50    0.49   9.02     15.00    1.35
Civil wrks (New)       61.70   132.22  246.81   220.36   176.29  44.07   881.45    15.00    132.22    1.58    3.39    6.33    5.65    4.52    1.13    22.60    15.00  3.39
Professiorna Senviis    8.51    18.23   34.02    30.38   24.30   6.08    121.51    20.00    24.30    0.22    0.47    0.87    0.78    0.62    0.16   3.12    20.00     0.62
Furniiue               10.24   20.47   30.71    20.47    15.35   5.12   102.35    10.00    10.24    0.26    0.52    0.79    0.52    0.39    0.13    2.62     10.00    0.26
Meicai Equipment        0.00   119.96   159.95   119.96   0.00    0.00    399.88    60.00    239.93    0.00    3.08    4.10    3.08    0.00    0.00    10.25    60.00  6.15
Equipment (Other)       6.79    16.98   23.77    13.58    3.40    3.40    67.92    20.00    13.58    0.17    0.44    0.61    0.35    0.09    0.09   1.74    20.00     0.35
Vehicles                16.35   32.71    16.35    16.35    0.00    0.00    81.77    75.00    61.33    0.42    0.84    0.42    0.42    0.00    0.00  2.10     75.00    1.57
Medicines              16.21   24.32   32.43    40.53   40.53   8.11    162.13    50.00    81.07    0.42    0.62    0.83    1.04    1.04    0.21    4.16     50.00    2.08
Oter Supplies           6.00   12.00    18.00    12.00    9.00    3.00    60.00    0.00     0.00    0.15    0.31    0.46    0.31    0.23    0.08    1.54     0.00     0.00
MlSliEC Materials       0.22    1.30    1.30     0.87    0.43    0.22     4.34    25.00     1.09    0.01    0.03    0.03    0.02    0.01    0.01    0.11    25.00     0.03
Local Training          8.10   16.20   20.25    20.25    1215    4.05    81.00     0.00     0.00    0.21    0.42    0.52    0.52    0.31    0.10    2.08     0.00     0.00
Studies                 1.26    2.51    3.14     3.14    1.88    0.63    12.56     0.00     0.00    0.03    0.06    0.08    0.08    0.05    0.02    0.32     0.00     0.00
Fellowships             0.50    1.00    1.25     1.25    0.75    0.25     5.00    90.00     4.50    0.01    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.02    0.01    0.13    90.00     0.12
Workshops               0.39    0.78    0.98     0.98    0.59    0.20     3.90     0.00     0.00    0.01    0.02    0.03    0.03    0.02    0.01    0.10     0.00     0.00
Consultants             3.40    6.80    8.50     8.50    5.10    1.70    34.00    0.00      0.00    0.09    0.17    0.22    0.22    0.13    0.04    0.87     0.00     0.00
Total Investment Costs   164.17  458.00   695.50   596.17  359.81   94.32   2367.96   26.20    620.77    4.21   11.74   17.83   15.29   9.23    2.46    60.76    26.20    15.92
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of AdW Staff  20.84   54.19   83.37    104.21   120.89  33.35   416.85    0.00     0.00    0.53    1.39    2.14    2.67    3.10    0.86    10.69    0.00     0.00
Operational Expenses   18.46   27.68   36.91    46.14   46.14   9.23    184.56    10.00    18.46    0.47    0.71    0.95    1.18    1.18    0.24    4.73    10.00     0.47
BuildingMaintenanre     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.11    3.87    0.55    5.53     10.00    0.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.10    0.01     0.14    10.00     0.01
Vehile Maintenance      0.00    0.00    0.04     0.14    0.18    0.04    0.41     10.00     0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01     10.00    0.00
Equipment Maintenance  23.03   23.03    15.35    23.03   53.74   15.35   153.54    10.00    15.35    0.59    0.59    0.39    0.59    1.38    0.39   3.94    10.00     0.39
Total Recunent Costs      62.33   104.91   135.68   174.63   224.82   58.52   760.89    4.50  34.40    1.60    2.69    3.48    4.48    5.76    1.50    19.51   4.50     0.88
Total E ASEUNE COSTS      226.50  562.91   831.17   770.80   584.63  152.84  3128.85   20.90    655.17   5.81    14.43   21.31   19.76   14.99   3.96    80.26    20.90    16.80
Physical Contingencies  20.99   52.34   77.40    70.32   51.49   13.31   285.85    22.80    65.29    0.54    1.34    1.98    1.80    1.32    0.34   7.33    22.80     1.67
Prie Contingencies
Inflation
Local              6.60   44.47   115.77   155.06   172.87  57.03   551.79    0.00     0.00    0.17    1.14    2.97    3.98    4.43    1.46    14.15    0.00     0.00
Foreign            0.54    6.38    14.73    18.16   10.48   3.16    53.45    100.00    53.45    0.01    0.16    0.38    0.47    0.27    0.08   1.37    100.00    1.37
Subtotal Inflation   7.14   50.85   130.49   173.22   183.34  60.19   605.24    8.80     53.45    0.18    1.30    3.35    4.44    4.70    1.54    15.52   8.80     1.37
Devaluation          2.32    18.64   37.54    44.44   25.18   7.73    135.85    93.60    127.11   -0.23   -1.12   -2.66   -3.43   -3.74   -1.22   -12.41  0.00     0.00
Subtotal Price Contingencie  9.46   69.49   168.04   217.66  208.52  67.92   741.09    24.40    180.56   -0.05    0.19    0.68    1.01    0.96    0.32  3.11  44.10   1.37
Total PROJECT COSTS       256.95  684.74  1076.61  1058.78  844.64  234.07  4155.79   21.70    901.02   6.30   15.96   23.98   22.58   17.27   4.62    90.70    21.90    19.84
Taxes                  13.64   37.33   55.63    52.57   37.30   10.08   206.54    0.00     0.00    0.33    0.87    1.24    1.12    0.76    0.20    4.52      0.00     0.00
Foreign Exdcange       48.92   190.61   266.99   246.54   117.18  30.78   901.02    0.00   0.00    1.20    4.44    5.95    5.26    2.40    0.60    19.84    0.00      0.00
-U
ID
0>
cn:
0o
Cm 4.



Table 6. Project Coimponents by Year
(Rs fvliIlion)
Orissa Hfeaflh Systems Develpmrent Project
Base Cost
1999    2000      2001        2002      2003    2004       Total
1. Managent Development & Institutional Strengthening
la - Strengtheing Institutional Frainework. Management and Implemenlation Capacity  23 14    48 26     71 10      67 03     53 77    14 /2    27b 02
lb - Disease Surmvance and MIS                                                       6.75    14.48     16.49      17.53      1468     3.86      7377
Subioui                                                                                2989    62 73     87 59       84 55     68 45    18 58    351 .-9
2. Improve Servke Quality. Access and Effectivenes
2a- UpgradinAArea. Su-Divisiona and Districttosptals                                8167    23986    37212        32040    21428    55 65    12b3iS
2b.UpgradeEffedaveness.Clinical.ManagementandSupportServices                        4206    83.07      11989      12709    11987    31 59      523 3/
Subtotal                                                                              123.73   322.93    492 01     447 49    334 15   87 24    1807 tS:
3. Improving Basic Health Seivices at the Community Level
3a Selctie Upgrading of Community Health Centers                                    5401    14127    22276        20676    16174    4236       828 t.J
3b Promoting HealthServicesinTribalAreasandDisadvanlagedGroups                       6.08    10.40     12.78      1542       1489     324       6281
3c. Impove Referral System                                                          12.80    25.57     16 03      16 58      5 40     1 42      77 8)
Subtotal                                                                              72.89   177.24    251 57      238.76    182 03   47 02     969 51
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                  226.50   56291    831 17       770.80    584 63   15284    3128 85
PtysicalContnencies                                                                 20.99    52 34     77 40      70.32      51 49    13.31    285 85
Pnce Contingencies
Infiaton
Local                                                                           6.60    44.47      115.77     155.06    17287    57.03     551 79
Foreign                                                                         0.54     6.38      14.73      18.16     1048      3.16     5345
Subtotal lnfttion                                                                  7.14    50.85     13049      17322    183.34   60 19    60524
Devakation                                                                         232     1864      3754       4444      25.18    7.73      13585
Sublolal Pce Contingencies                                                           9 46    69 49     168.04     217.66    208 52   67 92     741 09
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                    256.95   684.74    1076.61    1058.78    844.64   23407    4155 19
Taxes                                                                                13 64    37 33    55 63       52.57     37 30    10 08    206 S-I
Foreign Exchange                                                                    48.92   190.61    266.99      246.54    117.18   3078      901 02
13
al
a>
e



Table 7. Expenditure Accounl:, by Compoinents, Hase Costs
(US$ Million)
1. Management Development &   2. Improve Service Quality, Access anti  3. Improving Basic Health Services at the
lnstitullonal Strengthening             Effectiveness                        Community Level
3b. Promoting
Orissa Health Systems   la. Strengthening                                    2b. Upgrade      3a. Selective    Health
Development Project       Institutional                    2a. Upgrading    Effectiveness,     Upgrading     Services In                               6
Framnework,                        Area.            Clinical,          of         Tribal Areas
Managemnent and    lb. Disease    Sub-Divisional   Management and    Community          and        3c. Improve           Physical
Implementation    Surveillance    and District        Support          Health     Disadvantaged    Referral           Contingencies
Capacity         and MiS        Hospitals          Services        Centers         Groups        System      Total      %      Amount
Investment Cosb
Civi Works (Renov)          0.00             0.00            5.52              0 12            3 38           0 00          0 00       9 02      10.00    0 90
Civii Works (New)           2.74             0.00           12.59              0.88            6.39           0 00         0o00        22.60     10.00    2 26
Professional Services       0.27            0.00             1.81              006             097            000           000        3.12      1000     031
Fumiture                    0.54            0.05             1 49              000             0.55           0 00          0 00       2 62      10 00    0 26
Medical Equipment           0.00            0.08             7.44             0 00             2.74           0 00          0 00       10 25     10 00    1 03
Equipment(Other)            0.39            0.11             0.22             067              030            000           004         1.74     1000     017
Vehides                     0.33             0.29            0 00              0 00            0.00           0 08          1.40       210       10 00    0 21
Medicines                   0.00            0.00             0.00             2.69             095            051           0.00       4.16      1000     042
OlherSupplies               0.00            0.08             0.00              1.26            0.21           000           000         1 54     1000     0.15
MISllEC Materials           0.00            0.01             0.00              0.02            0.00           007           0 01       0.11      10.00    0 01
LocalTraining               000             000              0.00              1.28            072            000           0.08       208       5.00     0.10
Studies                     0.26            000             0.00              0.05             0.00           0.01          0.01       0 32      10.00    0.03
Felkowships                 0.13            0.00             0 00             0 00             0.00           0 00          0 00       0.13      5.00     0 01
Workshops                   0 00             0.00            0.00              0 10            0 00           0 00          0 00       0 10      5 00     0 01                             a
Consultants                 0.48             0.00            0 21              0 10            0 08           0 00          0 00       0 87      5 00     0 04
Total lnvestnent Costs        5.15             0.61           29.27              7 24            16 28          067            1 54      6076      970       5 91
Recurrent Costa
SalariesofAdditionalSta     1.25             0.74            000              4.62             3.69           0.18          0.22       1069      500      053
Operational Expenses        0.72             0.54            0.64              1 57            0.29           0 74          0 23       4.73      10.00    0o47
Building Maintenance        0.00             0.00            0 07              001             007            0 00         0o00        0 14      1000     001
VehirleMaintenance          0.00             0.00            000               000             000            001           000        001       1000     000
Equipment Maintenance       0 00            0 01             2 99             0o00             0 93           0 01          0 00       3 94      10 00    0 39
TotalRecurrentCosts           1.98             128             369               6.19            498            094           045        19.51     730       1.42
Total BASELINECOSTS           7.13             1.89            32.92             1342            21.25           1.61          1.99      8027       9.10     7,33
PhysicatContingencies       0.62             0.15            3.28              1.04            1 90           0 15          0 18       7 33      0 00     0 00
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                  1.36             0.35            5.49              2.62            389            0.27          0 17       14.15     0.00      0.00
Foreign                0.08             0.02            0.66              0.16            034            0.04          006         1.37     000      000
Subtotallnflation         1.44            0.37            6.16              2.79             4.23           0.31          023        15.52     0.00     000
Devaluation              -1.19            -0.30           -4 82             -2.30           -3 41          -0 24         -0 14      -12 41     0.00     0 00
Subtota Price Contingen     0.25             0.07            1.34             0.49             0 82           0 07         0o09        3.11      8 50     0 27
TotalPROJECTCOSTS             7.99             2.11            37.54             14.95           23.97           1.83          2.27      90.70      8.40     7.59
Taxes                       0 34            0.10             2.16             0.53             1.09           0.12          018        4 52      9.10     0 41                        at
Forign Exchange             1.22            0.40             9.57             2.15             4.76           0.48          126        19.84     9.10     180                         a  ,
o x



Table 8. Expenditure A, counts by Components
(Rs Mlillion)
1. Management Development &    2. Improve Service Quality, Access   3. Improving Basic HealthServices at the
Insttutional Strengthening           and Effectiveness                    Community Level
Orissa Health Systems
Development Project                                                                                       3b. Promoting
la. Strengthening                                   2b. Upgrade    3a. Selective    Health
Institutional                   2a. Upgrading    Effectiveness,    Upgrading   Services in
Framework,                         Area,           Clinical,         of        Tribal Areas
Management and    lb. Disease     Sub-Divisional  Management and  Community          and       3c. Inprove           Physical
Implementation    Surveillance    and District       Support        Health     Disadvantaged   Referral           Contingencies
Capacity         and MIS        Hospitals         Services       Centers       Groups        Systei-n    Total       %     Am,unt
Investment Costs
Civi Works(Renov)           0.00             000            213.81            464           13170          000           000       350.15     1000    3502
Civi Works(New)            106.98            000            49094            34.30          249.23         000           0.00      88145      10.00    8815
Professional Services      10.70            000             70.48             2.43          37.90          0.00          000       121 51     1000    12 15
Fumiture                   21.00             1 80           58.04             0 00          21.34          0 00          0.17      102.35     10 00    10.24
Medical Equipment           0.00            3.00            290.20            0.00          106.68         0 00          0.00      399.88     10 00    39 99
Equipment (Other)          15.35            4.21             839             26.32          11.85          010           1.70      67.92      1000     679
Vehicles                   13.00            11.20            0.00             0.00           0.00          2 97         54 60      8177       10 00    818
Medicines                   0.00            0 00             0.00            105 00         37.13          20.00         0.00      162.13     10 00    16.21
Other Supplies              0.00            3 00             0 00            49.00           8.00          0.00          0.00      60.00      10.00    6.00
MISIIEC Materials           0.00            0 50             0 00             0 60           0.00          2.70          0 54       4.34      10.00    0.43
Local Training              0.00            0.00             0.00            50.00          28.00          0.00          3.00      81.00      5.00     4 05
Studies                    10.00            0.00             0.00             2.00           0.00          0 36          0.20      12.56      10.00    1 26
Fellowships                 5.00            000              0.00             0.00           000           0 00          000        5.00      5.00     0 25
Workshops                   0.00             0 00            0o00             3 90           0 00          0 00          0.00       3.90      5.00     0 20                              -
Consultants                18.90            0 00             8.10             4.00           3.00          0 00          0 00      34.00      5 00     1 70
TotalInvestmentCosts         200.93           23.71           1139.96          282.19         634.83         26.13        6021       2367.96    9.70    23060
Recurrent Costs
SalanesofAddI Staff        4872             28.81            000             180.06         144.00         6.83          8.43      416.85     5.00     2084
Operational Expenses       28.25            20.95           24.80            61.12          11.40          29.04         9.00      184.56     10.00    18 46
Budding Maintenance         0.00            000              2.76             020            2.57          0.00          0.00       5.53      1000    .0.55
Vehide Maintenance          0.00            0 00             0 00             0 00           0.00          0 41          0.00       0.41      10 00    0 04
EquipmentMaintenance        0.12            030             116.46            0.00          36.10          0.40          0.16      153.54     1000    15.35
Total Recurrent Costs        77.09            50.06           144.02           241.38         194.07         36.68         17.59     760.89     7.30     55.25
Total BASELINE COSTS         278.02            73.77          1283 98          523.57         828.90         62 81         77.80     3128.85     9 10    285 85
Physical Contingencies     24.17             5 94           127.99           40.46          74.14          5.94          7 21      285.85     0 00     0 00
Price Contingencies
Inflafton
Local                  52.90            13.59          214.15           102.37         151.59         10 67         6.51      551.79      0.00     0 00
Foreign                3.23             0 89            25.91            6.41           13.23          1.38         2.40       53.45      0 00     0 00
Subtotal Inflation       56.13            14.48          240.06            108.78         164.83         12.05        8.91       605.24     0.00     0 00
Devaluation              8.18             2 38            65 53            16.18          33.36          3 53         6 70       135.85     0 00     0 00
Subtotal Price Contingen   64.31            16.86           305.59           124 95         198.19         15.58        15.61      741 09     8 40    61.89
Total PROJECT COSTS          366.51            96 57          1717.56          688 98         1101.23        84.33        100.62     4155.79     8.40    347.74
Taxes                      15.56            451             98.72            24.38          49.90          5.37         8.11       20654      9.10     18.78
Foreign Exchange           55.20            17.88           434.81           98.89          217.05        22.15         55.04      901.02     9.10     81.65                           D 4
O (D
2. 4-



38
Annex 5
Page I of 5
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
Public Expenditures On The Health Sector
Introduction
1.     Annexes 5 and 6 review the economic analyses undertaken for this project. This annex reviews the fiscal
situation in Orissa analyzing past trends in selected aspects of public finance, expenditures on health and family welfare
services, the burden of incremental recurrent costs of the project, the resulting shifts in the structure of health
expenditures and the conditions for financial sustainability. Annex 6 deals with cost recovery, user charges and cost-
effectiveness. Other economic analyses are addressed in the text of the PAD. These include: (i) how the project relates
to the CAS (Section B); (ii) analysis of project alternatives (Section D); and project benefits and beneficiaries (Section
E).
State Finances
2.      A review of overall developments in state government finances in India reveals that, through the 1980s,
revenues grew at a slower rate than expenditures. This has led to the emergence of revenue deficits and to the growth
and changing composition of fiscal deficits. Calculations of individual state deficits as a proportion of their own state
domestic product suggest that for the eleven most populated states the average gross fiscal deficit increased slightly,
from 4.2 to 4.3 percent, in the early 1990s. However, differences between states are quite substantial. Interest rate
payments on state debt of almost all states have increased in the same period, partly because of the reform program
undertaken by the center in its move toward a market-oriented economy. This has affected overall tax revenues and the
size of the Central government's transfers to states, and has increased interest rates on the states' borrowings from the
center.
3.      Orissa's public finances, among the weakest of the major states in India, have shown signs of increasing
strains over the last decade in terms of both the size and the structure of the deficit. The revenue base has remained
small, and revenues as a share of gross state domestic product (GSDP) have declined and are substantially lower than in
other low-income or major states. Capital expenditures as a share of GSDP have remained stagnant. In the past
decade, the gross fiscal deficit rose from 4 percent of GSDP to more than 6 percent. The primary deficit as a share of
GSDP has increased steadily since 1993/94, reaching 1.9 percent of GSDP in 1994/95, and improved slightly in
1995/96, at 1.7 percent (Table 1). If recent levels and patterns in the state's revenue and non-interest expenditures
continue, the gross fiscal deficit will rise from about 6 percent to 8 percent of GSDP by the end of the decade. The
primary deficit is expected to rise to more than 2.5 percent of GSDP in the medium term.
Table 1. Orissa: Overall Finances, 1990/91 - 1995/96
1990/91    1991/92     1992/93    1993/94    1994/95     1995/96
Gross State Domestic Product.   48.84    54.57       54.06      57.27       60.05      62.45
Rs. billion
(at 1980/81 prices)
Gross Fiscal Deficit.         5.3         6.1        4.3         4.8         5.9        5.9
% of GSDP                            I
Primary Deficit.              2.0         2.7        0.8         1.0         1.9        1.7
% of GSDP
Revenue Deficit,              0.2         1.3        0.9         1.6         2.3        4.2
%ofGSDP
4.      Debt. The evolution of Orissa's debt has mirrored that of other states in India. The build-up of debt has been
closely linked to the behavior of the state revenue deficits. Like some other states, Orissa has been forced in recent
years to borrow to meet its revenue expenditure requirements. In some cases, new loans have had to be taken to repay
old debts, leading to a sharp deterioration in the state's debt situation. The total debt of the Government is estimated at



39
Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
Rs. 9,582.8 crores at the end of FY 1997/98, an increase of almost 246 percent since 1988/89. The per capita debt
burden increased from Rs. 907 to an estimated Rs. 2,690 in the same period. Interest payments rose more than
threefold between 1988/89 and 1996/97, from Rs. 303 crores to Rs. 1,097 crores and the stock of Orissa's debt as a
share of GSDP increased from about 37 percent to more than 40 percent. This is proportionately higher than in any of
the other major states. If current trends continue, the debt is expected to rise to more than 50 percent of GSDP in the
next decade.
Trends in expenditure on lHealth and Family Welfare
5.     Share of budgetary resources devoted to health. The effectiveness of the health care system depends on the
availability of recurrent inputs and adequate maintenance of existing assets. In Orissa, the broad composition of
government spending deviates slightly from the average for all Indian states. The proportion of expenditure spent on
education and health is below the average level, while the proportion of spending on programs is significantly above
average. Government expenditures on health and family welfare are well below international levels that are considered
adequate to meet public health priorities (World Development Report 1993), and below the levels required to achieve
the service norms set by the Government of India (India: Policy and Finance Strategies for Strengthening Primary
Health Care Services, 1995).
6.      Expenditures on Health and Family Welfare as a share of total revenue expenditure has remained below 6
percent since 1992/93 (Table 2). Wage expenditures have been growing much faster than non-wage expenditures; in
1991/92 nonwage spending represented 23 percent of total spending in hospitals and 15 percent in other health
facilities. These figures compare unfavorably with the 38 percent average non-wage spending on health facilities
among many Asian countries, and represent a decline in the share of non-wage recurrent expenditures from a base that
was already low in 1991/92.. Funds allocated to health as a share of total state budget has remained at around 3 percent
in the same period. Throughout the 1980s, health expenditures in Orissa have remained at about 1 .15 percent of GSDP.
In the early 1990s, the share declined from 1.24 percent of GSDP in 1990/91 to 1.08 percent of GSDP in 1993/94. In
1995/96, real growth rates in health expenditures turned positive, expenditures rose to 1.24 of GSDP, and the rising
trend is expected to continue.
Table 2. Orissa: Health Sector Expenditures, 1990/91 - 1996/97
1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95    1995/96  1996197
Expenditures on Health       1.24    1.12    1.13       1.08    1.10       1.24    n.a.
and Family Welfare
(% of GSDP)
Health and Family            6.2      6.0     5.6      5.6      5.3        5.3     5.4 (B.E.)
Welfare: Share of
Total Revenue Expenditure
liealth Budget as            3.6      2.9     3.0      3.0      2.7        2.9     3.0
% of State Budget                   _
7.      Measures of aggregate resources devoted to public sector health programs do not convey the absolute levels
of real expenditure per capita. Despite the relatively low share of public resources devoted to health in Orissa, real per
capita expenditures have increased significantly since the early 1990s; expenditures on health increased from Rs. 48
per capita in 1991/92 to Rs. 64 per capita in 1994/95. Adjusting for the observed annual rate of inflation of 7 percent
in the period 1991/92 to 11995/96, the annual increase in real terms in per capita expenditure is 5 percent. The
resources allocated to health are insufficient, however, given the low health status of much of the population, and are
well below the levels required to provide the minimum package of health services as described in the World
Development Report, 1993.
Budgetary allocations
8.      State plan allocatiions in Orissa have been adversely affected by the expenditure contraction that resulted
largely from the decline in central resource availability since 1990/91. Within the priority area of rural and primary



40
Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
health service, nonplan allocations have risen in real terms by an average of 6 percent a year (mainly on staff salaries)
and central plan allocations have risen by 3.5 percent. State plan allocations have declined by 3.3 percent a year (Table
3).
Table 3. Orissa: Budgetary Allocation within the Health Sector (Rs. million)
1990/91 and 1994/95
1990/91        1994/95       Annual real growth (%)
Nonplan                                       868             1061               5.1
Urban hospitals                             235             276               4.1
Urban water supply                          109             186               14.3
Rural and primary services                  385             484               5.9
Central and centrally sponsored plan          515              592               3.5
Rural and primary services                  515             592               3.5
State plan                                    386              275               -8.1
Urban hospitals                              51               7              -13.2
Urban water supply                            7               12                                l
Rural and primary services                  270             236               -3.3
Cost effectiveness
9.     A significant and rising share of public resources is being absorbed by unrecovered current expenditures spent
on providing curative care in urban tertiary hospitals.  Meanwhile, primary health care and first referral services,
including family welfare and rural health services delivered through primary health centers, are underfunded. While it
is difficult to exactly disaggregate the expenditure data of primary, secondary and tertiary levels, well over half of the
health budget has been devoted to the tertiary sector throughout the 1990s. The primary and secondary levels have
remained at about 20 percent, respectively (Table 4).
Table 4. Orissa: Distribution of Budget Expenditure: Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Levels (% of
State Health Budget), 1991/92 - 1995/96
Year                 Primary              Secondary                 Tertiary
1991/92                 21                     2 1                      58
1992/93                  19                    22                       59
1993/94                 22                     20                       58
1994/95                 21                     20                       59
1995/96                 22                     19                       59
10.    Recent analysis has indicated that substantial cost savings can result if health care services are provided at the
lower tiers of the health care system. This is particularly true between the tertiary and first referral/secondary tiers
where the range of services provided is similar; it is estimated that between 25-40 percent of costs could be saved by
treating patients at secondary facilities rather than at tertiary hospitals. Such cost comparisons between the secondary
and primary tiers are more difficult since the services offered at these two levels have greater divergence.
11.    Table 5 is a summary of costs for specific interventions at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels in Andhra
Pradesh. It summarizes the results from the Andhra Pradesh Burden of Disease and Cost Effectiveness Study'. These
estimates are achieved by comparing the overall unit costs related to specific inputs for in-patients and out-patients at
secondary versus tertiary hospitals and by giving cost and efficiency comparisons of secondary versus tertiary level
hospitals in terms of costs per case equivalent. While the data, specific issues and examples presented are specific to
the situation in Andhra Pradesh, with a few modifications the results are applicable to other Indian states as well.
' Administrative Staff College of India. "Andhra Pradesh Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness of Health
Interventions". Report Volume II, 1966. Center for Social Services, Hyderabad.



41
Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
Table 5. Costs at the PHC, Secondary and Tertiary Levels (Rs.)
Item/Service               PHC                   Secondary                  Tertiary
Bed Day                          73.18                  69.52                      52.70
OP Contact                        9.65                    2.45                      14.24
Level I Test'                    12.88                   11.95                     27.21
Level II Test                                            24.86                     38.28
X-rav                            48.45                   55.45                     76.66
Major OT                                                 55.67                    125.00
Project Financial Sustainabilitv
12.    The project's financial sustainability depends on the ability and commitment of the state government to
allocate resources for the continuation of project activities at the end of the project period and to support adequately
those non-project activities upon which project implementation depends. The level of recurring costs and the level,
composition and trends in health expenditure will have an important bearing on financial sustainability; the
effectiveness of the health care system depends on the availability of recurrent inputs and adequate maintenance.
13.    The incremental recurring costs of the project, including contingencies, at the end of the project period are
estimated at about Rs. 230 million. In 1996/97, total revenue expenditures in the Department of Health and Family
Welfare were Rs. 2,824 miillion. Real growth rates in health expenditure in the early 1990s averaged 5 percent a year.
Assuming a continuation of this trend, revenue expenditures in the year following the end of the project will be Rs.
3,530 million with a ;normal' increment in that year of Rs. 140 million. Project incremental recurring costs would be
about 4 percent of total revenue expenditures on health. However, overall trends in government revenue expenditures
in recent years have been above those in health. If, in the future, the share of health expenditure in total expenditures is
maintained and the latter continue its recent trend, a real growth rate of about 10 percent, then the total health allocation
at the end of the project period would be about Rs. 4,010 million, with a normal increase of about Rs. 250 million.
Project incremental costs would then be equal to about 6 percent of the 'normal' annual increase. If the incremental
recurrent costs of the project were to be funded in addition to the 'normal' increase this would imply an increased share
for health of total government revenue expenditures by around 0,4 percent.
14.    The incremental project costs would lead to some restructuring of overall health allocations and an increase in
expenditures. particularly at the secondary level. These costs are likely to be met partly through the trend increase and
partially through additional resources allocated to the sector. In order for the project incremental expenditures to be
accommodated relatively easily at the end of the project without a sudden large increase, the share of overall health
expenditures should increase at a rate at least as fast as total revenue expenditures. If that occurs, the costs should be
sustainable. If the growth rate of health sector allocations was to continue to be substantially below that of overall
expenditures, the question of project sustainability would be more ambiguous.
15.    The project is likely to result in an increase in the share of health expenditures for secondary level services.
Expenditure on secondary health in 1995/96 was equal to 19 percent of total health expenditures, around Rs. 521
million (with 22 percent for primary care). Maintaining a constant share of total government expenditures at the recent
trend rate would lead to an allocation of Rs. 4,010 million at the end of the project period. If project incremental costs
were financed in addition to the trend increase, these would add an additional 6 percent to this total and the share of
secondary service would increase to almost 24 percent of total health expenditures. To the extent that the incremental
expenditures are financed through the normal trend increase, the share for secondary services would increase further.
16.    How feasible are the assumptions regarding increases as well as changes in the composition of health sector
financing? The deficit on the revenue account was 4.2 percent of revenue receipts in 1995/96, an increase from about
1.3 percent in 1991/92. The gross fiscal deficit is estimated to equal 7 percent of revenue receipts (1995/96 B.E.).
Orissa's debt is expected to reach 40 percent of GSDP in 1995/96. Interest payments on the government's debts were
' Level I refers to blood picture, urine exam, and sputures for TB, while Level II refers to blood sugar, blood urea,
electrolyte, and urine and blood culture and sensitivity.



42
Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
equal to 19.6 percent of revenue expenditures in March 1997. This is slightly above the average across major states
(18.0). Outstanding debt in 1995/96 was more than 40 percent of state domestic product, which is above the average.
Efforts are underway to improve state public finances. to increase revenues and to alter the structure of expenditure,
particularly with regard to the situation of finances for the health sector. Real growth rates in health expenditures
turned positive in 1995/96. The Ninth Plan allocation to health shows a significant increase in allocation for the period
1997 to 2002. State plan allocations for health and family welfare will be increased from 13.2 percent of total
expenditures in 1996/97 to 14.1 percent in 1997/98, and nonplan allocations from 5.9 percent to 6.1 percent.
17.    The project will add 4 percent to the current debt of the state govemment (Rs. 3,822/95,828 million).
Conclusion
18.    While the incremental recurrent costs are substantial additions to the health budget, the fiscal reforms being
undertaken by the government and the commitment of the govemment to the development of the health sector imply
that this addition will be sustainable. As the rate of growth of health expenditures in recent years has been below the
growth rate of overall expenditure, it is necessary, at a minimum, to alter the composition of expenditure so that
contribution to the health sector is increased, and that increased resources be allocated to the primary and secondary
level health care.



43
Annex 6
Page I of 6
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
User Charges
Introduction
1.      This annex addresses issues related to cost recovery and user charges. Existing user charge policy is
reviewed, and the potential for enhancing resources by implementing fees more rigorously, strengthening collection
mechanisms and through periodic enhancement of fees for selected medical services is explored. It also discusses
issues of retention of funds at the facility level and targeting of beneficiaries for exemption from fees. A limited
number of scenarios for possible cost recovery schemes are presented for illustrative purposes.
2.      Revenue collection reports at public facilities in India indicate that the level of cost recovery in medical and
public health services is generally low. This does not, however, take into account services such as private nursing
and diet support that families provide to patients during their hospital stay. Although it is difficult to estimate how
much higher actual cost recovery is compared to reported revenue data, evidence still suggests that cost recovery is
relatively low in India.
3.      A study of cost recovery from the mid 1970s to the late 1980s showed that Orissa's collection rate was
lower than the average collection rates of other major states in India. Of the 15 major states, the average level of cost
recovery in the health sector in the period 1975-89 was the highest in Punjab at 7.7 percent, while cost recovery in
Orissa was 2.8 percent. The average for India was about 3.8 percent (India: New Directions in Health Sector
Development).
4.      There are several causes for the low collection rate in Orissa. User fees have been set quite low and cover
only a relatively narrow range of services. Mechanisms for collecting user fees have been inadequate. In addition,
there are many exemptions, some of which are clearly justified, including exemptions for the poor for promotive
health. Others are less clear, including exemptions or reduced rates for Government employees attending public
hospitals. Collection rates are also low because patients are reluctant to pay service charges, or in some cases even
attend public health facilities, when the quality of those facilities are poor or drugs not available. Moreover, there
has been little incentive to collect user charges because the hospitals have been unable to retain even a part of the
revenues collected; the funds generated have reverted to the Government treasury where they have become part of
general revenues.
Existing practices
5.      The following section outlines existing practices, some possible measures that could be adopted, and
estimates the potential revenues. Full cost recovery in the public sector is neither feasible nor desirable. However,
the Government of Orissa has taken an important step and instituted a policy on July 1, 1997 on user charges for
selected health services in district headquarters hospitals, three medical colleges, the Capital Hospital in
Bhubaneswar and the Rourkela Hospital.
6.      Studies show that the poor are disproportionately represented among the users of public hospitals and bear a
high burden of out-of-pocket spending on health services. Accordingly, the government has adopted the principle
that only those patients who are able to pay for services in public hospitals should be charged fees to some degree
and that revenues should be of a size that will have a significant effect on funding non-salary recurrent costs. The
initial phase is optional and it is a combination of voluntary payments and targeting of the poor for exemption. The
Chief Medical Officer has the option to reject or adopt the scheme. It is intended that the scheme will be extended
after a review and once it is firmly grounded.
7.      Before July 1997, only token fees were charged, and only for a limited number of items. In the first six
months since the Government Order, 32 out of 33 hospitals were implementing the scheme. The Government Order
covered new areas reflecting the relative affluence and poverty of different areas. Hospitals have been divided into
'A', 'B' and 'C' categories with differing rates for each. The revised rates are below prevailing market rates. For



44
Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
example, charges for X-rays in government hospitals were Rs. 23 and have been revised to Rs. 30-50, compared to
approximately Rs. 100 in the private sector.
Outpatient charges
8.      The revised rates do not include outpatient fees and no charges are currently levied on outpatients. This is
because outpatient attendance at hospitals is quite low, and it is feared that imposing fees would discourage
attendance.
Inpatient charges
9.      The revised rates cover charges for accommodations, transportation, X-rays, laboratory tests and minor
examinations.  Fees have been increased substantially but kept below  fees in the private sector (Table 1).
Accommodation charges, for example, have been increased for air-conditioned cabins from Rs. 100 per day to Rs.
150, and for nursing home cabins from Rs. 15 to Rs. 100 in Category A. Furthermore, charges for X-rays have been
more than doubled in Category A and increased substantially in Categories B and C. A registered society has been
formned at each hospital to collect and utilize the funds. Revenues collected are being retained at the hospital, and the
funds will be utilized for the day-to-day hospital expenditure, maintenance and improvement to ensure qualitative
health care services.  Proceeds so far have been used for minor repairs, purchase of equipment, facilities
improvement and maintenance. Service norms and quality in general appear to have improved, and patients are
viewing the levying of fees in a positive light because of these improvements. Additional fees are being considered,
such as for minor surgery and for some outpatient services. These, and others will be reviewed as the scheme
develops and has been firmly established.
Table 1. Previous and Revised Rates: Examples
Item             Previous charge. Rs                     Revised charge, Rs
|______________________  1 Category A    Category B           Category C
Accommodation charges
Cabin. a/c                      100                150               150               150
Cabin. with toilet               12                100                75                50
Cabin. without a/c
and toilet                        9                 75                50                40
Nursing home. non
a/c with toilet                  15                100                75                50
Radio-Diagnosis
X-ray (I 5"x 12)                23                  50                40                30
Dental film                       3                 JO                 8                 5
Fluoroscope                      2                  10                 8                 5
Ultrasound               __100                                       80                 60
Minor investigations       _                                                      _ _v__
Haemoglobin count                 1                  5                 4                 3
Urine examination        __10                                          8                 5
Sputum examination               3                  10                 8                 5
Serum cholesterol                 8                 20                15                10
VDRL test                        4                  20                15                10
Other
Bone marrow study               20                  30               25                 20
Foetal Haemoglobin                                  30                25                20
Blood gas analysis                                  50               40                 30
Pregnancy test                                      30                25                20



45
Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
Exemptions for the poor and willingness to pay
10.    There is not a formal system in place for exempting user charges. Patients below the poverty line are
exempt from any fees on the recommendation of the treating physician and the CDMO/Superintendent of the
hospital. Given the large proportion of Orissa's population below the poverty line, the number of patients exempted
is expected to be over 40%. Because the determination of who is poor is a gray area, the attending physician
determines whether charges are to be levied. This is viewed as an interim solution, and will be re-examined to
improve targeting and appropriate enhancements. An amendment to the Government Order states that any tests
included in the National Programs, such as for Leprosy, Malaria, TB and Blindness will be exempt from user
charges, as are health services for accidents and emergencies.
11.    The principles for implementing user charges will be to: (a) recover a part of the costs of inpatient hospital
services from those patients who can afford to pay, while protecting the poorest sections of society; (b) concentrate
charges on voluntary services such as upgraded rooms or wards and on medical services with relatively low cost-
effectiveness; (c) enable hospitals to retain all or part of the revenues collected by them through registered societies;
and (d) ensure that revenues are used for non-salary recurrent items. In the absence of quality improvements, new or
increased charges could lead to reduced demand for hospital services with an overall reduction in revenues.
Increased charges will, therefore, be introduced in a phased manner and matched to the upgradation and renovation
of facilities.
12.    It is not expected that the above measures would lead to any strong adverse impact on overall demand for
health services. There are no precise estimates of price elasticity in Orissa, but there is a useful and up-to-date survey
of willingness to pay for health services available. This concludes, among other things, that patients will be prepared
to pay reasonable charges for services but that there is a close link to expectations about improved quality, and an
upper limit set by what is charged in the private sector. There is good evidence to suggest that there is still
substantial scope to increase certain charges before costs will approach those found in the private sector.
Potential for additional cost recovery
13.    An indicative example is developed of the potential revenue that could be generated through the
implementation of the types of user charges being reviewed.
Outpatient fee
14.    A modest outpatient registration fee could make a worthwhile contribution to the fiscal situation and
sustainability of the public health system in Orissa. For example, introducing a registration fee of Rs. 2 per year for
each new outpatient could generate around Rs. 4 million a year for use within the state's health system. This alone
would represent 75% of recent expenditure on equipment by hospitals. And, taking into account population growth
in the state and the likely increase in patient numbers as quality improves, revenue collected from this source alone
could plausibly be Rs. 5.8 million. Studies undertaken in the state suggest a Rs. 2 per person health certificate charge
would be acceptable to the population, including the poor.
Paying beds
15.    Total bed strength at the secondary level in Orissa is 4848, and the project will add another 1936 beds at the
secondary level, bringing the total to 6784 by the end of the project. Of the additional beds proposed, the
Government of Orissa intends that 5 percent will be paying cabins. This is a fairly low percentage of paying beds,
and a low charge rate, even taking into account the relatively high poverty incidence in Orissa. A higher percentage
of paying beds at the revised rate may be necessary in order to increase cost recovery. If, for example, Rs. 50 was
charged per day for 400 Iwo-room cabins, Rs. 25 per day for 500 four-room cabins, and Rs. 5 per day for remainder
in open wards, about Rs. 37 million a year could be generated.



46
Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
Charges for surgery
16.    Charges for surgery are being considered as a possible next step; surgery is the department in most hospitals
making the highest contribution to overall costs. A number of states, such as Karnataka and West Bengal link the
selection of higher standard room accommodation with higher charges for diagnostic services and surgery. Thus, one
set of charges apply to those availing themselves of paying beds, while a rate 50 percent lower applies to those in the
general ward. However, the level at which charges are pitched in special wards needs careful planning to ensure that
the combined higher quality of room and services can justify the higher overall charge. Otherwise, patients will
simply opt for the general wards or for private sector treatment, and the paying beds will be underutilized.
17.    For purposes of illustration, the following charges could apply: The total number of public sector inpatient
cases in Orissa is currently around 110,550. If it is assumed that around 55 percent of those are below the poverty
line, and thereby exempt from these charges, there would then be around 49,750 patient cases remaining that could
be charged a fee. It might further be assumed that 10 percent of these might be in paying wards, with the remaining
44,775 in general wards. There is some evidence to suggest that direct and indirect costs of surgery for a hospital in
Orissa are around Rs. 76 per surgery event. Assuming that 25% of patients require major surgery, and the rest
require minor surgery, revenue from charges could be Rs. 1.7 million per year. And if it is assumed that inpatient
visits rise to 233,790 by the end of the project, due to increased access and improved quality, then the amount raised,
with all other factors held constant, rises to Rs. 3.6 million per year.
The private sector
18.    The interface between the public and the private sector provides another logical area to examine in terms of
improving health outcomes while simultaneously generating some measure of cost recovery. This is particularly the
case in India where private sector expenditure on health is already large, about 78 percent of total spending on health.
Innovative arrangements could include the contracting out of expensive capital and diagnostic equipment to private
doctors in the evenings. Leasing out the use of pathology testing equipment to private doctors and their outpatients
could, for example, raise Rs. 30,000 per pathology diagnostic per year. If the 119 existing secondary and tertiary
facilities in Orissa each did this, about Rs. 3.6 million could be generated. Such an arrangement would assist in
improving health outcomes, maximize use of expensive capital equipment, help defray costs and strengthen a
perception of quality in the public hospital system.
19.    A clear, fair, and simple exemptions policy is required to protect the poor, promote good health and to
ensure overall community acceptance of user charges. None of the above illustrative additional charges would apply
to promotive or preventive interventions, such as immunizations, or to any services at the primary health level. It is
also assumed in the above that all patients, irrespective of income, would pay the Rs. 2 outpatient registration fee. In
all other cases in the above examples, however, the poor are exempted or heavily subsidized.
Summary
20.    Various options are available that will help defray costs and put the health system on a sustainable and
viable basis. The simple measures canvassed above are included in the table below.
Table 2. Summary of Potential Revenue from Cost Recovery
Type of charge                        Annual cost recovery
(Rs. million per year)
Outpatient charges                              5.8
Paying beds                                    37.0
Surgery charges                                 3.6
Private sector                                  3.6
Total                                          50.0



47
Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
21.    Wages absorb around 80 percent of costs, and with limited cost recovery, budgets for maintenance and
consumables are squeezed, undermining quality and credibility of the system. Reasonable cost recovery charges can
contribute to the maintenance of essential supplies, equipment, and quality within the health system, thereby
improving overall health outcomes, the financial sustainability of the system, and its overall credibility. For this to
be effective, user charges should not be a substitute for adequate budget support from the Government, but should
supplement it. In addition, for user charges to be acceptable. there should be clear and simple exemptions for the
poor, and a clear link between charges and quality improvements. The best way for that to occur is for the charges to
be collected, and reinvested, at source. Experience in other states implementing State Health Systems Development
Projects shows that retention of funds at the facility level is resulting in substantial improvement in operations and
maintenance functions.
22.    Annual recurrent expenditures for secondary health services are expected to be about Rs. 204 million per
year at the end of the project. The measures described above could generate almost Rs. 50 million a year, equivalent
to 25 percent of non-salary recurrent expenditures. This is in addition to the funds that are being generated from the
implementation of the cost recovery scheme instituted by the Government of Orissa in July 1997. A number of
hospitals have already collected revenues of almost Rs. 150,000 in the first two months of the scheme. These
additional resources could have a significant effect on the levels of service quality provided by secondary health
institutions. There remains considerable opportunity to review and enhance charges, while making sure that
appropriate mechanisms for protecting the poor are in place.
23.    These calculations are mainly illustrative, but they indicate the potential which exists to augment
government resources for health services through a few relatively simple measures. While the decision has been
made to increase the role of user charges after a review of the scheme and to improve the system of targeting and
implementation, the immediate priority is to implement the existing patterns of charges effectively and to monitor the
use and effects of the revenues on health services.
Conclusion
0   User charges should supplement, and not substitute for, an adequate level of funding from the health budget.
Revenues are fungible, i.e. can be used for many purposes - and there is no benefit to public health outcomes if
increased revenue collection is simply followed by reductions in proper funding.
0   Substantial cost recovery is not possible, nor even desirable, because of the high percentage of poor who use the
public health system in Orissa (approximately half of the population lives below the poverty line, and 38% of the
State belong to SC or ST).
0  Cost recovery rates should not be pitched at such a level that they induce overservicing by suppliers nor
reduction in demand for beneficial health services by clients. Implementation of user charges should concentrate
on voluntary services such as upgraded rooms or wards and on medical services with relatively low cost-
effectiveness. Rates should, recover a part of the costs of inpatient hospital services from those patients who can
afford to pay, while protecting the poorest sections of society. Furthermore, rates should not normally exceed
rates that are applicable in the private sector.
0   Cost recovery measures should.be carefully targeted, including to visible items that the public clearly recognize
as promoting their own health outcomes (for example, drugs) or which are less cost effective interventions (for
example, private hospital rooms).
0   Exemptions policy should be clearly stated so as to protect the poor and encourage health promotive activities.
Clarity and simplicity in an exemptions policy also eases costs of administration and reduces opportunities for
corruption.
0   Cost recovery rates must be linked to genuine differences in quality. Raising quality involves its own costs, for
example increasing the nurse to patient ratio, which should be borne in mind when setting rates. Consideration
should also be given to the timing and phasing of cost recovery measures as clients will be more prepared to
make a contribution for services if they see that service norms, and quality in general, have improved first.



48
Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
O   Payment, and collection, of cost recovery fees should be designed in such a way that they are simple and not
burdensome for patients and administrators alike.
O   There are innovative ways for the public health system to interact with the private sector (e.g. sharing of
facilities) and this has the potential for cost recovery measures. In the longer term, health insurance is an area
worth examining.
O   Revenues obtained, or at least a substantial proportion of them, should be retained at the collection point and
then used to directly improve or maintain facilities. Supplementing non salary recurrent expenditures (e.g.
drugs, consumables, basic maintenance) improves health outcomes and restores credibility to the public health
system. Reviewing collection rates and their application should be institutionalized.



49
Annex 7
Page I of 8
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
The procurement arrangements to be undertaken by the project will be the responsibility of the
implementing agency, the Department of Health and Family Welfare of the Government of Orissa, and in particular
the Project Management Cell (PMC). The PMC will be responsible for all procurement activities either directly or
through the hiring of procurement agents. Since the PMC does not have the capacity to undertake all civil works
and equipment procurement on its own, two specialized agencies will assist the PMC in this regard for the first year
of the project. For civil works, IDCO has been designated as the procurement agent for the first year of the project
on a sole source basis at a fee not to exceed US$300,000. This would help to get the procurement of civil works off
to a good start and IDCO's familiarity with a number of World Bank assisted projects will be very valuable in this
regard. For financial years 2-6, the procurement agent for civil works will be selected on a competitive basis.
Similarly, ELMARC, an institution with considerable experience in the management of equipment has been
designated as the procurement agent for equipment, instrument and furniture for about 90 items of medium and
high-end technology, at a fee not to exceed US$200,000. For financial years 2-6, the procurement agents for these
items will be selected oni a competitive basis. For all other procurement, the PMC will directly manage the
procurement activities. Medicines, MIS/IEC materials, other supplies, vehicles, consultants and services will be
procured directly by the PMC.
A. Civil Works. The construction program encompasses the renovation/extension works for existing 32
District Headquarters Hospitals, 20 Sub-Divisional Hospitals, 19 Area hospitals, 37 existing Community Health
Centers and the upgradation/renovation/extension of 48 existing Block PHCs into 48 CHCs-2 which are scattered
throughout the state. Also, the program covers the renovation/extension works for existing staff quarters and 26
existing blood banks, and the construction of new staff quarters, 6 new blood banks and a new annex for training
and IEC activities at the existing SIHFW Campus. The average base cost of civil works excluding staff quarters for
institutional building is US$ 0.34 million for a District Headquarters Hospital, US$ 0.12 million for each sub-
divisional hospital, Area Hospital and CHC-1, US$ 0.09 million for a CHC-2, US $0.02 million for a blood bank
and US$ 0.23 million for the new annex for training. The cost of renovation/extension works for the DHHs varies
from US$ 60,000 to US$ :550.000; for the SDHs from US$ 42,000 to US$ 200,000, for the AHs from US$ 18,000 to
US$ 150,000, and for the CHCs it varies from US$ 34,000 to US$ 125,000.
The scattered number of institutions and the low cost of renovation/extension works will not attract foreign
bidders to participate. Therefore, ICB may not be considered. NCB may be the appropriate procedure to be used as
it may attract national finns to participate. However, the remote location of some institutions and the low cost of
works of some call for allowing such works to be procured under Force Account, direct contracting and comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors eligible under the guidelines. However, Force
Account and direct contracting will be limited to 5% and 2% of the civil works costs respectively. Past experience
has shown the need in certain cases to support the NCB with such procedures as indicated above. It is anticipated
that no more than 20 contracts will require prior review estimated to cost Rs 460.0 million or US$ 11.8 million
representing 29% of the total cost of civil works.
B. Equipment. Procurement of equipment would be phased on an annual basis in accordance with the
requirement of the project activities. Phasing of the procurement of equipment will be closely sequenced with the
civil works program. Procurement of large and more expensive equipment that would be bulked together would be
purchased through ICB procedures. These include items such as x-ray machines, ultra-sound scanners, endoscopes,
anesthetic equipment, blood-gas analyzer, etc. Procurement of other minor equipment expected to be below the
US$ 200,000 threshold will be undertaken through NCB procedures. These include such items as computers, lab
supply, glassware, etc. About 15% by value of all procurement of equipment is expected to be below US$ 30,000,
which will be procured through other methods of procurement.



50
Annex 7
Page 2 of 8
C. Vehicles. The main types of vehicles to be procured will be jeeps and ambulances. Procurement
methods for vehicles will be ICB, when bulk purchased for packages over US$ 100,000 equivalent this would
comprise about 75% of all vehicles. The remaining vehicles will be procured over the length of the project period
in packages equivalent to US$ 100,000 or less for which the method of procurement will be national shopping
(DGS&D rate contracts are acceptable under national shopping).
Procurement Methods (Table A)
IDA financed works, goods and services will be procured using Bank guidelines of January 1995, revised
January, August, 1996 and Revised September 1997. The procurement methods applicable to the various
expenditure categories are summarized in the Table A below. For procurement under the project, the Bank's
standard bid documents shall be used.
*  Contracts for civil works estimated to cost over US$ 45,000 equivalent will be carried out following
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures.
*  Contracts for civil works estimated to cost equivalent of US$ 45,000 or less will be procured following
procedures acceptable to the Association:
(a)    under quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors;
(b)    by direct contracting; or
(c)    through Force Account as a last resort.
*  Contracts for the purchase of goods valued at more than US$ 200,000 equivalent each would be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Contracts valued more than US$ 30,000 but less than US$ 200,000 may be awarded on the basis of NCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. Other items or groups of items valued US$ 30,000 equivalent or less per
contract may be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures. Other items or small groups of
items such as supply of instruments, medicines and MIS/IEC materials valued at less than US$ 5,000
equivalent per contract may be procured through direct contracting or national shopping procedures.
*  Contracts for maintenance of buildings and equipment may be awarded through:
(a)    Direct Contracting; or
(b)    Force Account.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
*  All ICB contracts.
*  All contracts for goods with an estimated value of more than US$ 200,000 equivalent.
*  All contracts for works with an estimated value of more than US$ 300,000 equivalent.
*  The first two NCB contracts each for goods and works regardless of the value.
*  Consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 or more for firms and US$ 50,000 or
more for individuals.



51
Annex 7
Page 3 of 8
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
International    National
Competitive   Competitive      Other'      N.B.F        Total
Bidding       Bidding
CIVIL WORKS
Civil Works                            -           31.77            4.19         -        35.96
(28.59)         (3.81)                (32.36)
GOODS
Furniture                             -             2.29            0.67         -         2.96
(2.05)         (0.60)                 (2.67)
Equipment & Instruments               3.70           8.10           2.00         -        13.80
(3.33)        (7.29)         (1.8)                  (12.42)
Vehicles                              1.66           -              0.75         -         2.41
(1.49)                       (0.68)                  (2.17)
Medicines                             -              3.87           0.96         -         4.83
(3.45)         (0.86)                 (4.35)
Other Supplies                         -             0.86           0.86         -          1.73
(0.77)         (0.77)                 (1.55)
MIS/lEC Materials                      -             0.09           0.03         -         0.13
(0.09)         (0.03)                 (0.12)
CONSULTANTS AND SERVICES
Project Preparation and
Implementation
(including Training, Fellowships                                   2.48                    2.48
and Workshops)                        -              -             (2.48)                 (2.48)
Institutional Development                                          4.85                    4.85
(including Consultants, Studies        -             -             (4.85)                 (4.85)
Professional Services and NGOs)
MISCELLANEOUS
Salaries of Additional Staff          -              -             11.55                  11.55
(7.14)                 (7.14)
Operational Expenditures              -              -              5.37                   5.37
(3.43)                 (3.43)
Building Maintenance                   -             -              0.16                    0.16
(0.09)                 (0.09)
Equipment Maintenance                 -              -             4.49                    4.49
(2.77)                 (2.77)
TOTAL                                    5.36         47.00          38.34                   90.70
(4.80)       (42.00)        (29.60)                 (76.40)
'Other' includes direct contracting, comparison of price quotations and Force Account.



52
Annex 7
Page 4 of 8
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category     Contract Value (Threshold)    Procurement Method   Contracts Subject to Prior
Review
1.  WORKS
Civil Works        Civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$45,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate
not exceeding US$4.19 million
may be executed by:
(i) direct contracting up to an    Direct Contracting  Post review only
aggregate not exceeding
US$0.75 million; or
(ii) on the basis of comparison    Solicitation of Three    Post review only
of price quotations obtained   Bids
from at least three qualified
contractors eligible under the
guidelines; or
(iii) by Force Account as a last   Force Account     Post review only
resort up to an aggregate not
exceeding US$1.8 million in a
manner satisfactory to the
Association.
Civil works estimated to cost the  National Competitive   First two works contracts
equivalent of over US$45,000   Bidding               and all contracts above
per contract up to an aggregate                      US$300,000 by prior
not exceeding US$31.77 million.                      review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Guidelines. All others by
post review.
2.  GOODS
(a) Furniture,     US$30,000 or less per contract,   National Shopping  Post review only
equipment,         up to an aggregate not         Procedures (includes
instruments,       exceeding US$4.3 million       DGS&D Rate
medicines, MIS &   equivalent.                    Contracts)
IEC materials and
other supplies                                    National Competitive   First two contracts
More than US$30,000 per        Bidding               regardless of value by
contract, up to an aggregate not                     prior review in
exceeding US$15.21 million                           accordance with
equivalent.                                          paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. All others by
_ _________________  ______________________________   ______________________   post   review .



53
Annex 7
Page 5 of 8
Expenditure Category    Contract Value (Threshold)    Procurement Method   Contracts Subject to Prior
Review
Over US$200,000 equivalent per  International       All ICB contracts and
contract.                     Competitive Bidding    contracts valued at more
than US$200,000
equivalent each by prior
review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.
ILess than US$5,000 per contract  Direct contracting or   Post review only.
up to an aggregate not        national shopping
exceeding US$0.22 million.    procedures
(b) Vehicles      IUS$ 100,000 equivalent or less    National shopping  Post review only.
lier contract up to an aggregate   procedures (includes
not exceeding US$0.75 million.   DGS&D rate contracts
also)
MVore than US$100,000
equivalent per contract up to an  International     Prior review in
aggregate not exceeding       competitive bidding   accordance with Paras. 2
IUS$1.66 million.                                   & 3 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines.
3.  SERVICES
(a) Contracts    lUp to an aggregate not         Quality and Cost      Prior review of all
estimated to      exceeding                      based Selection       consultant contracts shall
exceed           IUS$1.0 million.                (QCBS)                be governed by the
US$200,000                                                             provisions of paragraphs
(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) below:
(b) Studies,      US$200,000 or less per contract,  QCBS with Short List  (i) With respect to each
Training &        up to an aggregate not         (could comprise of    contract for the
Workshop,         exceeding                      Domestic Firms only if  employment of consulting
Fellowship,       US$2.35 million.               foreign consultants are  firms estimated to cost the
Consultants,                                     not interested.)      equivalent of US$200,000
Procurement                                                            or more, the procedures
Agents,                                                               set forth in paragraphs 1,2
Professional                                                           lother than the third sub-
Services Contracts                                                     paragraph of paragraph
or other contracts                                                     2(a)] and 5 of Appendix I
equivalent of                                                          to the Consultant
US$100,000 or                                                          Guidelines shall apply.
more up to
US$200,000
equivalent



54
Annex 7
Page 6 of 8
Expenditure Category    Contract Value (Threshold)   Procurement Method     Contracts Subject to
Prior Review
(c) NGO Services   US$100,000 or less per     (i) QCBS with Short    (ii) With respect to each
and other         contract, up to an aggregate  List (could comprise of  contract for the
consultancy       not exceeding US$3.98       domestic Firms only if  employment of consulting
contracts         million.                    foreign consultants are  firms estimated to cost
not interested.)       the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more, but
(ii) Single Source    less than the equivalent of
Selection - (acceptable   US$200,000, the
for tasks representing a  procedures set forth in
natural continuation of  paragraphs 1,2 lother
assignment, when rapid  than the second sub-
selection essential, for   paragraph of paragraph
very small assignments,  2(a)j and 5 of Appendix I
or when only one firm   to the Consultant
is qualified.          Guidelines shall apply.
(iii) With respect to each
contract for the
employment of individual
consultants estimated to
cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more, the
qualifications, experience,
terms of reference and
terms of employment of
the consultants shall be
furnished to the
Association for its prior
review and approval.
The contract shall be
awarded only after the
said approval shall have
been given.
All other cases: Post
Review
(d) Maintenance   More than US$25,000 per    National Competitive    Post Review only
of Building and   contract.                   Bidding
Equipment
US$25,000 or less per      Direct Contracting;    Post Review only
contract.                  force account as last
resort.



55
Annex 7
Page 7 of 8
Disbursement Arrangements
Allocation of loan proceeds
The allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C, Annex 7. Table A, Annex 7 summarizes the project
items, their related cost estimates and proposed methods of procurement. Table B, Annex 7 summarizes the
threshold for procurement methods and prior review. Project-related procurement of goods and works would follow
procedures acceptable to IDA using International Competitive Bidding (ICB), National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
documents and National Shopping (NS) procedures acceptable to the Association. Project-financed consultants
would be recruited according to Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Procurement of
equipment, vehicles, and goods would be bulked to the extent possible and would generally be procured as follows:
(a) individual contracts estimated to exceed US$ 200,000 would be procured using ICB (although there are no
plans at present for individual purchases greater than US$ 200,000); (b) individual contracts with an estimated
value between US$ 30,000 and US$ 200,000 would be procured using NCB; and (c) individual purchases of off-
the-shelf items through rate contracts or prudent shopping procedures would be acceptable in packages of less than
US$ 30,000 up to the aggregate limits as outlined in the procurement tables.
Disbursements on the basis of statements of expenditure are: (a) incremental operating costs; (b)
consultants' services undler contracts not exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent in the case of firms and US$ 50,000
equivalent in the case of individuals; (c) contracts for goods not exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent each; (d)
contracts for vehicles not exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent each. Given the large size of the Credit and the
disbursement period (72 months), a special account of US$ 6 million equivalent will be used; and (e) contracts for
works not exceeding US$ 300,000 equivalent each.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing, effective after June 30, 1997, would be provided for expenditures which follow the
standard features of eligibility. This would include eligible project related expenditures; procurement following
standard Bank guidelines; and activities accepted as consistent with appraised standards. The goyermnent identified
the following items for which they would claim retroactive financing amounting to about US$1 million equivalent
(about 1.4% of the proposed Credit): preparation activities including facilities and equipment surveys, preparation
of procurement documents and model plans, studies, information technology equipment, vehicles and related
operational expenditures.
Financial Management System and Auditing Arrangements
The PMC will design, develop and maintain a computerized Project Financial Management System capable
of providing timely and reliable information to DOHFW and project management staff to monitor the project's
progress towards it agreed objectives based on the following guidelines: (a) a separate budget head with appropriate
sub-heads would be created under the Annual Budget document of OO to capture all project related expenditures;
(b) the accounting system would reflect component-wise and category-wise expenditures, produce financial reports
that show actual versus budgeted expenditures for the current period and to date, and provide costing information.
It would also capture information regarding the method of procurement so that the limits of procurement laid down
in the Procurement Schedule in the Project Agreement are properly monitored. The system would generate the
Schedule of Withdrawal of Proceeds (Form IB) and the Statement of Expenditure (Form IC) required for
submission to the Bank for withdrawal of credit; and (c) the Project Financial Management System will map the
financial data with the physical data for measuring the performance of the project. PMC will prepare and furnish to
the Bank a project financial report on a quarterly basis.
Project Financial Statements so compiled would be audited annually in accordance with standards of
auditing acceptable to the Bank by an independent auditor The audit of project accounts would include an
assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems, ability to maintain adequate documentation
for transactions, and eligibility of expenditures for Bank financing. The audited Project Financial Statements
including a summary of Statement of Expenditure disbursements together with auditor's opinion on it would be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year. The audit report on Special
Account (SA) maintained by the Department of Economic Affairs would include a summary of SA transactions and
the closing balance held by the Reserve Bank of India. The audit report on SA would be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.



56
Annex 7
Page 8 of 8
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$       IDA Financing Percentage
Million
Civil Works                                   32.36                    90%
Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles and            23.28         100% of foreign expenditures,
Supplies                                                     100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Includes:
US$4.35 Medicines
US$2.67 Furniture
US$12.42 Medical and Otier Equipment
US$1.55 Supplies
US$2.17 Velticles
US$0.12 MIS/lEC Materials
Training, Workshops (IDA funded),              7.33                   100%
Studies,
Consultants and Professional Services
Includes:
US$4.85 Professional Services, Studies,
Consultants
US$2.48 Training, Fellowsihips, Workshops
Incremental Operating and Maintenance         13.43
Costs                                                      80% of local expenditures
incurred until March 31, 2001;
Includes:                                                  55% of expenditures incurred
US$7.14 Salaries of Incremental Staff                      from April 1, 2001 until March
US$3.43 Operational Expenses                               31, 2003; and 25% of
US$0.09 Building Maintenance                               expenditures incurred
US$2.77 Equipment Maintenance                              thereafter.
TOTAL          76.40



57
Annex 8
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
Pre-appraisal                                    245.7                201.1
Appraisal                                        131.2                 62.0
Negotiations                                      19.5                 19.0
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         20                   14
First Bank mission (identification)            2/28/19 97           02/28/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    01/20/1998           01/20/1998
Negotiations                                   04/20/1998           04/16/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/09/1998           08/14/1998
Prepared by: Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Orissa
Preparation assistance: Consultants funded by project preparation funds were D. Porter (Health
Systems Specialist); R. Willey (Waste Management Specialist); E. Dib, S. Chakravarty and V.
Rewal (Architects).
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Tawhid Nawaz (Senior Economist, Task
Team Leader); Shreelata Rao-Seshadri (Social Development Specialist); Ian Anderson (Senior
Economist); Maj-Lis Voss (Economist); Indra Pathmanathan (Senior Public Health Specialist);
Julie Mittman (Social Development Specialist); Raj Kumar (Public Health Specialist); Salim
Habayeb (Principal Public Health Specialist); Hiroko Imamura (Senior Council); Mam Chand
(Procurement Specialist); Sanjay Vani, Radha Krishnan (Financial Analysts); Sanjeev Aggarwal
(Waste Management Specialist); Nina Anand (Staff Assistant) and Cheryl Powell-Ambassa (Staff
Assistant). Peer Reviewers were S. Lieberman, E. Jarawan and Jean-Jacques Dethier. The
Sector Manager for Health, Nutrition and Population in the South Asia Region is Richard
Skolnik.



58
Annex 9
Orissa Health Systems Development Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Department of Health and Family Welfare (DOHFW), Government of Orissa, December 1995.
Strengthening the Secondary Health Systems of Orissa. Bhubaneshwar.
, October 1997. The State Health Development Project Orissa. Bhubaneshwar.
, December 1997. The State Health Development Project Orissa. Bhubaneshwar.
, February 1998. The State Health Development Project Orissa. Bhubaneshwar.
, April 1, 1998. Orissa Health Systems Development Project and Procurement
Annex. Bhubaneshwar.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
IDA Preparation Mission: State Health Systems Development Project III. Aide-Memoire, March 1997.
IDA Preparation Mission: State Health Systems Development Project III. Aide-Memoire, July 1997.
IDA Preparation Mission: State Health Systems Development Project III. Back-to-Office Report,
August 1997.
IDA Pre-appraisal Mission. State Health Systems Development Project III. Back-to-Office
Report, November 1997.
IDA Appraisal Mission. Orissa Health Systems Development Project. Aide-Memoire, January
1998.
Nawaz, T., S. Rao-Seshadri and H. Hinchcliffe, February 1997. New Directions in Health Sector
Development at the State Level: an Operational Perspective. World Bank, Washington.
Nawaz, T., and S. Rao-Seshadri, May 1995. India: Policy and Finance Strategies for
Strengthening Primary Health Care Services.
Haddad, M, et al, August 1996. Strategy and Options for Fiscal Stabilization in Orissa. World
Bank, Washington.
C. Other
DOHFW, Government of Orissa, January 1997. Strengthening the Secondary Health System of
Orissa: A Feasibility Report with Special Emphasis on the Needs of Indigenous People and
Disadvantaged Groups. Bhubaneshwar.
Center for Development, Research and Training. A Study on Capital Hospital Service Cost
Analysis. Bhubaneshwar.
Operations Research Group, December 1996. Patient and Organizational Study for Acharya
Harihar Regional Center for Cancer Research and Treatment Society, Cuttack. Cuttack.
Department of Finance, Government of Orissa, March 1997. Demand for Grants, 1997-98,
Volumes I-III. Bhubaneshwar.
Department of Finance, Government of Orissa, 1997-98. Annual Financial Statement.
Bhubaneshwar.
Department of Finance, Government of Orissa, 1997-98. Explanatory Memorandum: Budget.
Bhubaneshwar.
DOHFW, Government of Orissa, January 1998. Management of Health Care Waste: An
Assessment. Bhubaneshwar.
DOHFW, Government of Orissa, June 1997. Government Order on User Charges in Government
Hospitals. Bhubaneshwar.
Department for International Development, February 1998. Beneficiary/Social Assessment
Study. Bhubaneshwar.
Administrative Staff College of India, July 1997. Orissa Burden of Disease Study.
Bhubaneshwar.
DOHFW, Government of Orissa. Site Survey of Secondary Hospitals. Bhubaneshwar.



59
Annex 10
Page I of 4
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of March 31, 1998)
Difference Betwee
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                disbursements a/
Proiect ID   Credit No.    Year                 Purpose
IBRD         IDA       Cancellations    Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 375
Activ,e Loans
IN-PE-10561     IBRD42960      1998    NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY                   96.80         0.00             0.00           96.80         0.00      0.
IN-PE-10561     IDA30480       1998    NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY                    0.00      100.00              0.00           99.43         0.00      0.
IN-PE-35160    IBRD42710       1998    HARYANA POWER APL-I                   60.00         0.00             0.00           60.00         0.00      0.
IN-PE-35169     IDA30180       1998    U.P. FORESTRY                          0.00       52.94              0.00           52.55         0.00      0.
IN-PE-38021     IDA30120       1998    DPEP III 4BIHARI                       0.00      152.00              0.00          146.13         2.31      0.
IN-PE-49477     1DA30530       1998    KERALA FORESTRY                        0.00        39.00             0.00           38.80         0.00      0.
'N-PE-50638     IDA30130       1998    UP BASIC ED II                         0.00        59.40             0.00           51.38        -6.69      0.
IN-PE-9979      IBRD42260      1998    COAL SECTOR REHAB                    530.00         0.00             0.00          530.00         0.00      0.
IN-PE-9979      :DA29860       1998    COAL SECTOR REHAB                      0.00         2.00             0.00            2.02         0.00      0.
IN-PE-10473     .DA29360       1997    TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                   0.00      142.40              0.00          127.74        18.93      0.
IN-PE-10511    IDA29640        1997    MALARIA CONTROL                        0.00       164.80             0.00          155.07         3.70      0.
IN-PE-10531     IDAN0180       1997    REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                   0.00      248.30              0.00          234.88        11.20      0.
IN-PE-35158     IBRD41660      1997    AP IRRIGATION III                    175.00         0.00             0.00          175.00       -12.32      0.
IN-PE-35158     IDA29520       1997    AP IRRIGATION III                      0.00       150.00             0.00           87.01       -12.32      0.
IN-PE-36062     IDA29160       1997    ECODEVELOPMENT                         0.00        28.00             0.00           24.05         -.06      0.
IN-PE-43728     IDA29300       1997    ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                   0.00        50.00             0.00           43.84           .90     0.
IN-PE-44449     IDA29420       1997    RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                      0.00        19.50             0.00           18.19         3.60      0.
IN-PE-45600     IBRD41140      1997    TA ST'S RD INFRA DEV                  51.50         0.00             0.00           42.10         9.60      0.
IN-PE-49301     IBRD41560      1997    A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                   50.00         0.00             0.00           50.00        14.70      0.
IN-PE-49301     IDA29500       1997    A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                    0.00       100.00             0.00           88.62        14.70      0.
IN-PE-9995      IBRD41920      1997    STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)                 350.00         0.00             0.00          337.65        -2.35      0.
IN-PE-10480     IBRD39230       1996    B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                   167.00         0.00             0.00          135.29        49.32      0.
IN-PE-10484     IBRD40560       1996    UP RURAL WATER                       59.60         0.00             0.00           56.49         3.09      0.
IN-PE-10485     IDA27740        1996    HYDROLOGY PROJECT                     0.00       142.00             0.00          110.04        29.10      0.
IN-PE-10529     IDA28010        1996    ORISSA WRCP                           0.00      290.90              0.00          189.74       -18.68      0.
:N-PE-35110    IBRD40140       1996    ORISSA POWER SECTOR                  350.00         0.00             0.00          333.61        23.61      0.
rN-PE-35821     IDA28760       1996    DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2                   0.00      425.20              0.00         368.98         19.74      0.
IN-PE-35825     IDA28330       1996    STATE HEALTH SYS II                    0.00      350.00              0.00          292.16        42.48      0.
_N-PE-39935     IBRD39920       1996    ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                 200.00         0.00             0.00          175.00        43.00      0.
IN-PE-39935     IDA28380       :998    ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                    0.00         5.00             0.00            4.58        43.00      0.
!NJ-PE-43310    1DA28620       .996    COAL ENVeSOCIAL MIT.                   9.00        63.00             0.00           53.42         6.55      0.
IN-PE-10461     IBRD39076      1995    MADRAS WATER SUP II                  269.80         0.00           189.30           69.85        95.00      2.
IN-PE-1C463    IBRD37790       1995    INDUS POLLUTION PREV                  93.00         0.00             0.00           83.66        50.68      0.
IN-PE-10463     IBRD37806      1995    INDUS POLLUTION PREV                  50.00         0.00             0.00           44.60        50.68      0.
N-PE-10463     1DA26450       1995    INDUS POLLUTION PREV                   0.00        25.00             0.00           23.04        50.68      0.
IN-PE-10464     1DA26610       1995   DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                     0.00      260.30              0.00          151.08        11.76      0.
IN-PE-10476    IDA27450        1995    TAMIL NADU WRCP                        0.00      282.90              0.00          229.71        75.01      0.
IN-PE-10489     1DA26630       1995    AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                   0.00       133.00             0.00           95.97        18.46      0.
IN-PE-10503     IDA26990       1995    AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                   0.00        59.50             0.00           41.47        24.59      0.
:N-PE-10506     IDA27000       1995   MP FORESTRY                             0.00       58.00              0.00           33.26         4.23      0.
IN-PE-10522     IDA27330       1995    ASSAM RURAL INFRA                      0.00       126.00             0.00          103.73        27.77      0.
IN-PE-10563     IBRD38560      1995    FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                 350.00         0.00             0.00          200.00      -167.50      0.
IN-PE-10563     IBRD38576       1995    FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                144.00         0.00             0.00          132.49      -167.50      0.
:N-PE-10448     IDA25720       1994    FORESTRY RESEARCH                      0.00        47.00             0.00           28.09        19.43      0.
EDUCATION
IN-PE-10449     IDA25730        1994   ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY                0.00        77.40             0.00           38.28         9.97      0.
:N-PE-10455     IDA26110        1994    BLINDNESS CONTROL                     0.00       117.80             0.00           89.17        25.62      0.
IN-PE-10457     IDA26300        1994    POPULATION IX                         0.00        88.60             0.00           59.40        11.06      0.
IN-PE-34162     1DA25940        1994   MAHARASHTRA EARTHQUA                   0.00       246.00            29.19           22.93        48.47    11.
_N-PE-9870      IBRD37530      1994   CONTAINER TRANSPORT                    94.00         0.00             0.00           82.42        68.43      0.
IN-PE-9964      IDA25920        1994   WATER RES CONSOLID H                   0.00       258.00             0.00          165.81        58.01      0.
IN-PE-10407     IDA24330        1993   ADP - RAJASTHAN                        0.00       106.00             0.00           35.79        22.03      0.
IN-PE-10408     IDA24390        1993   BIHAR PLATEAU                          0.00       117.00             0.00           74.43        72.63      0.
IN-PE-10410     IDA24490        1993    RENEWABLE RESOURCES                   0.00       115.00             0.00           78.34        97.82      0.
IN-PE-10416    IBRD35770        1993    PGC POWER SYSTEM                    350.00         0.00             0.00          148.89       119.23      0.
.N-PE-10418    IDA24830        1993   KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S                    0.00        92.00             0.00           59.98        49.18      0.
IN-PE-10423     IBRD36320       1993   NTPC POWER GENERATIO                 400.00         0.00             0.00          147.89       147.90      0.
IN-PE-10424     IDA25280        1993   NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA                   0.00        85.00              9.07          35.10        32.61    -4.
IN-PE-9955      1DA25090        1993    UTTAR PRADESH BASIC                   0.00       165.00             0.00           41.37        -9.69  -122.
IN-PE-9959      IDA24090        1993    RUBBER                                0.00        92.00            36.58           31.39        53.74      2.
IN-PE-9961      IDA25100        1993   UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                   0.00        54.70             0.00           24.97        11.01      0.
IN-PE-9977      IDA24700        1993    ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                  0.00       194.00             0.00          145.22        79.00    78.
IN-PE-10390     IDA23280        1992    MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                  0.00       124.00            16.18           53.01        58.49    38.
IN-PE-10393    IDA23500        1992    AIDS PREVENTION AND                    0.00        84.00             0.00           14.89        15.46      0.
7N-PE-10400     IBRD34980      19912   MANARASHTRA POWER II                 350.00         0.00             0.00          237.75       235.94      0.
IN-PE-9888      IBRD34360      19932   POWER UTIL EFFIC IMP                 265.00         0.00            25.00           50.27        75.29    50.



60
Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
.N-PE-9921      IDA23290       992    SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                 0.00       85.00             48.51          23.98        67.30    13.
:N-PE-9946      !BRD34700     .992   NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                    153.00         0.00             0.00         153.00        64.I2     0.
'N-PE-9946     IDA23650       1992   NAT. HIGHWAYS II                      0. 00     153.00              0.00          37.23        64.12     0.
lN-PE-9963      TDA23940      1992    POPULATION VIII                      0.00        79.00             0.00          63.83        49.06     0.
IN-PE-10369    1DA22340       1991   yAHARASHTRA RURAL WS                  0.00       109.90             0.00          28.76        32.28     0.
:N-PE-9877      1DA22410      1991    DAM SAFETY                           0.00       130.00            27.03          53.58       102.39    -1.
;,;-PE-99Q6     IBRD33340     !991    IND POLLUTION CONTRO               124.00         0.00             0.00          11.97         7.08     0.
:N-PE-9906      :DA22520      1991    IND POLLUTION CONTRO                 0.00        31.60             0.00          10.73         7.08     0.
:N-PE-9958      IBRD33000     1991   AGR.DEV.I (TN)                       20.00        0.00              0.00          20.00        17.87     0.
.N-PE-9958      IDA22150      1991   AGR.DEV.I (TN)                        0.00       92.80              0.00           5.58        17.87     0.
IN-PE-9988      IDA22230      1991   TECH EDUC II                          0.00      307.10             51.37         101.05       136.62    32.
IN-PE-9860      IDA21310      1990   WTRSH PLAINS                          0.00       55.00              0.00          11.49        12.38     4.
IN-PE-9q82      IDA21000      1990   WTRSH HILLS                           0.00        75.00             0.00          24.87        33.40    20.
IN-PE-9940      IDA21330       1990   POP. TRG (VII)                       0.00        86.70            22.74           2.26        28.47    -5.
IN-PE-9965      IDA20760      1990    PUNJAB IRR & DRAINAG                 0.00       150.00             4.72          21.37        24.50     S.
IN-PE-9982      I3RD32370     1990   NOR REG TRANSM                      485.00         0.00             0.00         200.24       200.23     0.
IN-PE-9969      1DA21300       1990   TECH EDUC I                          0.00      235.00             24.26          35.46        70.50    21.
lN-PE-9869      1BRD30240     1989   NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO                 485.00         0.00             0.00         158.57       158.56     0.
TN-PE-9941      IBRD30960     1989   MAHARASHTRA POWER                   400.00         0.00            62.67          42.64       105.32    -1.
.N-PE-9973      IBRD29940     1989   STATE ROADS I                       170.00         0.00            61.41           5.25        61.38     -.
'N-PE-9990      IDA20080      1989   VOCATIONAL TRAINING                   0.00      250.00            116.15          18.09       159.21    18.
Total                                                                  6,292.70    7,432.74            724.18       8,084.77    3,082.34   165.
Active Loans        Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              4,703.22          30,874.00          35,577.22
of which has been repaid:               208.27            9,395.23           9,603.50
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             12,792.95          20,854.59          33,647.54
Amount soid                     :                0.00             133.77             133.77
Of which repaid              :                0.00             133.77             133.77
Total Undisbursed               :            8,084.77              48.86           8,133.63
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94
Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory,
S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-90l), Auqust 23, 1994.



61
Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
India
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of March31. l998
(In US Dollars Million)
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval                   Companv               Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic     Loan      Equity     Quasi      Part
1964/75/79/90                MUSCO                             0.00       1.08      0.00       0.00       0.00      1.08       0.00
1978/87/91/93                HDFC                             40.00      2.29       0.00       0.00      40.00      2.29       0.00
1981                         Nagarjuna Steel                   0.00       .07       0.00       0.00       0.00       .07       0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96          ITW Signode                       0.00       1.55      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.55      0.00
1981/86/89/94/92             TISCO                             4.80      15.37      0.00       0.00       4.80      15.37      0.00
1981/90/93                   M&M                                .67      6.49       0.00       2.67       .67       6.49       0.00
1982                         Modi Cement                       3.79      0.00       0.00       0.00       3.79      0.00       0.00
1984/90/94                   India Lease                       .87        .86       0.00       0.00       .87        .86       0.00
1984/91                   .  Bihar Sponge                     12.37       .68       0.00       0.00      12.37       .68       0.00
1986                         EX13City Mills                    .48       0.00       0.00       0.00       .48       0.00       0.00
1986                          EXEI-CECL                         .01       0.00      0.00       0.00       .01        0.00      0.00
1986                          EXEI-NB Footwear                  .19       0.00      0.00       0.00       .19        0.00      0.00
1986                         EXE-Paharpur                      .07       0.00       0.00       0.00       .07        0.00      0.00
1986                         EXEI-STG                           .40       0.00      0.00       0.00       .40       0.00       0.00
1986                          EXE-TAN                           .03      0.00       0.00       0.00       .03        0.00      0.00
1986                         EXEI-Wires & Fab.                  .04       0.00      0.00       0.00       .04       0.00       0.00
1986/92193/94                GESCO                             0.00      11.97      0.00       0.00       0.00      11.97      0.00
1986/93194195                India Equipment                    .49       .77       0.00       1.20       .49        .77       0.00
1987                         Hindustan                         6.20       0.00      0.00       0.00       6.20      0.00       0.00
1987/88/90/93                Titan Watches                     1.29       1.03      0.00       0.00       1.29       1.03      0.00
1988/90/92                   Tata Telecom                      0.00       .10       0.00       0.00       0.00       .10       0.00
1988/94                      GKN Invel                         0.00       1.40      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.40      0.00
1989                         AEC                              12.45       0.00      0.00       0.00      12.45      0.00       0.00
1989                         UCAL                              0.00       .63       0.00       0.00       0.00       .63       0.00
1989/90/94                   Tata Electric                    56.17      0.00       0.00       0.00      56.17      0.00       0.00
1989/91                      Gujarat State                     8.77      0.00       0.00       0.00       8.77      0.00       0.00
1989/95                      JSB India                         0.00       1.21      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.21      0.00
1990                         HOEL                              0.00       .28       0.00       0.00       0.00       .28       0.00
1990                         TDICI-VECAUS 11                   0.00       1.59      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.59      0.00
1990/92                      CESC                             45.51      0.00       0.00      63.65      45.51      0.00       0.00      6
1990/93/94                   IL&FS                            23.25      3.11       1.81       8.00      23.25      3.11        1.81
1990/94                      ICICI-IFGL                        0.00       .30       0.00       0.00       0.00       .30       0.00
1990/95                      ICICI-SPIC Fine                   0.00       1.88      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.88      0.00
1991                         BSES                             20.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      20.00       0.00      0.00
1991193                      Triveni                           0.00       1.11      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.11      0.00
1991/96                      VARUN                             0.00       1.35      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.35      0.00
1992                         Indus VC Mgt Co                   0.00       .01       0.00       0.00       0.00       .01       0.00
1992                         Indus VCF                         0.00       1.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.00      0.00
1992                         Info Tech Fund                    0.00       .64       0.00       0.00       0.00       .64       0.00
1992                          SKF Bearings                     4.78       0.00      0.00       0.00       4.78       0.00      0.00
1992193                      Arvind Mills                      0.00      17.10      0.00       0.00       0.00      17.10      0.00
1992194197                   Ispat Industries                 78.93      5.77       0.00      85.00      39.07       5.77      0.00
.992/95                      Creditcapital VF                  0.00       1.05      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.05      0.00
1992/96/97                   NICCO-UCO                         6.69       .50       0.00       0.00       1.69       .50       0.00
1993/94196                   Indo Rama                        20.31      11.98      0.00       8.13      20.31      11.98      0.00
1993/97                      20TEI Century                    15.62       .80       0.00       3.38      10.62       .80       0.00
1994                         Centurion Growth                  0.00       2.39      0.00       0.00       0.00       2.39      0.00
1994                         Chowgule                         14.65       4.58      0.00      23.72      14.65       4.58      0.00      2



62
Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
1994                        Crdcap Asset Mgt                 0.00       .32      0.00       0.00      0.00       .32       0.00
1994                        DLF Cement                       8.80      4.94      0.00      12.75      8.80       4.94      0.00      I
1994                        Global Trust                     0.00      3.19       0.00      0.00      0.00       3.19      0.00
1994                        Gujarat Ambuja                   0.00      8.23      0.00       0.00      0.00       8.23      0.00
1994                        Taurus Starshare                 0.00      7.17       0.00      0.00      0.00       7.17      0.00
1994                        TCAMC                            0.00       .16       0.00      0.00      0.00       .16       0.00
1994/97                     GVK                             40.00      8.30      0.00      35.69     30.00       7.45      0.00      3
1995                        Centurion Bank                   0.00      3.87      0.00       0.00      0.00       3.87      0.00
1995                        EXIMBANK                        22.73      0.00      0.00       0.00     22.73       0.00      0.00
1995                        GE Capital                      12.50      5.00      0.00       0.00      12.50      4.39      0.00
1995                        ISIC                             0.00       .32       0.00      0.00      0.00       .32       0.00
1995                        Prism Cement                    15.00      5.02       0.00     15.00      15.00      5.02      0.00      1
1995                        Rain Calcining                  19.25      5.47       0.00      0.00      17.00      5.46      0.00
1995                        Sara Fund                        0.00      6.48       0.00      0.00      0.00       1.10      0.00
1995/98                      RPG Communicatns                0.00     11.25       0.00      0.00      0.00      11.25      0.00
1996                        CVF Oil Gas-AL                   8.00      8.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1996                        India Direct Fnd                 0.00      7.50       0.00      0.00      0.00       1.84      0.00
1996                        Indus 11                         0.00      5.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       3.00      0.00
1996                        Indus Mauritius                  0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1996                         Moser Baer                      5.70       .60       0.00      0.00      5.70       .60       0.00
1996                        United Riceland                 10.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1997                         Asian Electronic               16.41      5.50       0.00      0.00      0.00       5.50      0.00
1997                        CEAT                            20.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      9.00       0.00      0.00
1997                        Duncan Hospital                  7.00       .91      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1997                        EEPL                             0.00       .03      0.00       0.00      0.00       .03       0.00
1997                        Owens Coming                    25.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     25.00       0.00      0.00
1997                        SAPL                             0.00       .07      0.00       0.00      0.00       .07       0.00
1997                        SREI                            15.00      3.00       0.00      0.00       1.00      3.00      0.00
1997                        WIPRO                           10.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998                        IDFC                             0.00     15.46       0.00      0.00      0.00      15.46      0.00
1998                        TCW/ICICI                        0.00     10.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       1.50      0.00
Total Portfolio:                              614.22    226.73       1.81     259.19    475,70     194.81      1.81    17
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
1996                        CESC 11 -BLINC                   0.00      0.00       0.00     37.00
1998                        IL&FS (III)-RI                   0.00      3.38      0.00       0.00
1998                        IVCAAF                           0.00      5.74       0.00      0.00
1998                        RAIN CALCININ RI                 0.00       .84      0.00       0.00
1995                        SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE                 0.00       .86      0.00       0.00
1997                        WALDEN - MGMT                    0.00       .08       0.00      0.00
3997                        WIV                              0.00      6.00       0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                       0.00      16.90      0.00     37.00



63
Annex 11
India at a glance                                                              Page 1 of 2
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South    Low-
India     Asia  income       Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                      943.2     1.264    3,229
GNP ner capita 1996 (USS)                             380       380      S00                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                             358.4       481    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%A)                                       1.7        1.9      1.7     GNP              A               Gross
Labor force (%)                                       2.0       2.1       1.7     per              -              primary
Most recent estimate (latest yrear available since 1989)                         capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% df population)             35
Urban population (% of total population)               27        26       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       62        61       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 /he births)                68        75       69              Access to safe water
Child malnutriton (% of childran under 5)              63
Access to safe water (% of population)                 63        63       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   48        50       34
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  102       98      105            -     wIndia
Male                                                113       110      112                Low-income group
Female                                              91         87       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS andi LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996    1996
IEconomic ratios'
GDP (billions USS)                          91.0   214.3       328.3    355.8
Gross domestic investment/GOP               20.8     24.2       26.2     26.5             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and servioces/GOP           6.2      6.0       12.1     12.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  20.4    21.1        22.7    23.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  20.6     21.6       24.2    25.3                       T
Current account balancelGDP                  0.0    -2.8       -2.1      -1.2
Interest payments/GDP                        0.3      0.6        1.4      1.3     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                              15.1     19.1       28.9    25.2
Total debt service/exports                  13.1    22.7        26.9    22.6
Present value of debWGDP                                       22.8
Present value of debt/exports                                 161.4                           Indebtedness
197648S  1986-96    1995      199i3  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                  - _  India
GDP                                 4.2      5.6      7.3       7.5       6.5 
GNP per capita                      1.9      3.5      5.4        5.2            |           Low-ncone goup
Exports of goods and sermces        3.9     11.5    31.6        7.5    10.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1985       1995    1996'
(% of GOP)                                                                       0Growth rates o output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                 40.5      33.0      27.9     27.8     30 T
Industry                                    23.7     28.1       30.1    29.2        I
Manufacturing                              16.7     17.9      19.7    20.1 1/
Services                                    35.8    38.8        42.1     43.0
I  'S;       92   93   94   9S   96
Private consumption                         70.2    67.8        66.8    66.4      . 1
General govemment consumpbion                9.4    11.1        10.5     10.5                    GOI   --*-GOP
Imports of goods and services                6.6      9.1       15.6    15.3
197668  198t-96      19S6     1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and import (%)
Agriculture                                  2.5       3.6      -0.1      5.7     40 
Industry                                     5.3      6.6       11.6      7.0
Manufacturing                               5.5      6.7      13.6      8.1      20.
Services                                     51       6.7        8.8      7.4
Private consumption                          4.5      4.8        2.6      6.8      o
General govemment consumption                6.5      3.9        5.1      7.2   !         N     n        93   94   95   96
Gross domestic investment                    4.1      7.1       17.9      8.5    -20
Imports of goods and seriices                9.1      6.0       17.3      5.7
Gross national product                       4.1      5.4        7.2      6.7
Note: 1996 data are preliminaly estimates. All GDP data other than sectorai value-added are in market prices.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wAth its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



64
Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                    Inflation 1%)
(% change. 15
Consumer pnces                                         5.6       10.2      7.0
Implicit GOP deflator                        -1.5      7 5        7.3      70      t0
Govemment f1nance
(% of GOP)                                                                       10o
Current revenue                                       23.8       24.7     25.2            91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                                 2.2        1.0      1.3             -     GDPdef  -O--CPI
Overall surplusideficit                              -11.0     -10.1    -10.4
TRADE
1975     19SS      199S     1996
(milbions UJS5)                             1975j1985           1995     1996        Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                  8,793    32,311   33,638   | e,
Tea                                                  512       352      290
Manufactures                                       5,640    24,540   24,749      30.000 -
Total imports (cif)                                 15,957    43,670   46,121      20_
Food                                         ..    1,321      1,293    1,359
Fuel and energy                              .. 4,054         7,526    9.679     1,0
Capital goods                                 ..   3,502      4.560    4,513
Export price index (1980=100)                   .       98       104      103             90   9   92  93  94  95  96
importpriceindex(1980=100)                              84       115      116   jExports    ImoP003
Terms of trade (1987=100)                              118        90       89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               5.650   12,773    39,668   42,556
Imports of goods and services               5,990   19,422    51,213   54,431    |    90  91 9Z             941 9j     95
Resource balance                            -340   4.649    -11,545  -11.875         i         iI
Net income                                   -150   -1,552    -3,735   -4.118                                      |
Net current transfers                        470    2,207      8,506   11,88       2
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers           -20   -5,994    -6,774   -4,105
Financing items (net)                          20    6,542     3,050   10,095 j
Changes in net reserves                         0     -548      3,724   -5.990    .41
Memo: .
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)         2,065    9,493    21,246   26,160
Conversion rate (locakVSS)                    8.7     12.2       33.5     35.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1985      1996     1996    j
(millions USS)                                                                     ComposIon of total debt, 1996 (mill US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       13,708   40,960    94,858   89,827    |
IBRD                                       436    2,396      9,849    8,768                   G        A
IDA                                       2.809    9,750    17,499   17,616                 6726      8768
Total debt service                            822    3,532    13,346   12,667
IBRD                                         89      313      1,713    1.514                                    8
IDA                                         24       124       357      364          F                         17618
Composition of net resource flows                                                     28865
Official grants                             511      450       345      408                                     C
Official creditors                        1.260    1,424     -1,048    -163                                    1313
Private creditors                           83    2,277        589   -1.102                                  2948
Foreign direct investMent                    85      106     2,133    2,359                            E
Portfolio equity                              0        0     2,471    2,775                          23891
World Bank program
Commitments                                 917    2,882      1,697    1.725     A-19RD                      E-Bil
Disbursements                              531    1,375      1,318    1,628      5-IDA    0 Ohermutltrlraw    F - Prlvs
Principal repayments                        63       157     1,169    1,074      C-IMF                       G-Short4twm
Netflows                                   467    1,218        149      554
Interest payments                           50      280        901      804
Net transfers                              417       938      -752     -250
Development Economics                                                                                               11/7/97



