Report No. PID5816
Project Name         India-State Health Systems Development Project III (+)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       INPA10496
Implementing Agency              Department of Health and Family Welfare
Government of Orissa
Date Prepared                    November 5, 1997
Project Board Date               June 9, 1998
1.      Project Objectives.   The objectives of the proposed project
would be to assist the Government of Orissa to: (a) improve
efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through
policy and institutional development; and (b) improve the
performance of the health care system through improvements in the
quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services at the first
referral level and selective coverage at the primary level to better
serve the neediest sections of society. The project would support
other health programs aimed at reducing infant and maternal
mortality rates which are especially high in Orissa.
2.      Project Description.   The proposed project would be an
investment operation with policy aims. The policy content would
include: (a) increasing financing and improving resource allocation
for the health sector; (b) strengthening the capacity for sector
analysis and management; (c) enhancing the role of the private and
voluntary sectors in the delivery and management of health services;
and (d) implementing a user charge policy.
3.      Project investments would include:
(a)     Management Development and Institutional Strengthening by:
(i)     improving the institutional framework for policy
development by creating a Policy and Planning Unit at the state
level to monitor the critical issues in the health sector;
(ii)    strengthening the management and implementation capacity
at a) the state level, by strengthening the management capacity of
the implementing agency and appointing key staff in finance,
engineering services, medical services, medical management, and
administration and personnel; b) at the district level, by
strengthening District Health Committees which would facilitate the
functioning of the referral system, ensure maintenance of equipment,
manage hospital waste, provide quality assurance, undertake
surveillance of communicable diseases, monitor and supervise project
activities and be responsible for collecting and redistributing user
charges; c) strengthening the health management information system
and introducing a revised medical record system for in-patient and
diagnostic services; and d) providing appropriate training for all
management staff at the state and district levels; and



(iii)   strengthening the capacity for surveillance of major
communicable diseases through the development of a community based
system for early detection and reporting, with the full
participation of local institutions.
(b)     Improving Service Quality, Access and Effectiveness at the
First Referral Level, through:
(i) upgrading area, subdivisional and district hospitals by
renovating and extending the physical infrastructure; and
(ii) upgrading effectiveness of clinical, managerial and
support services at the facility level by rationalizing service
norms and standards for clinical and support services; developing
staffing, equipment and space norms; ensuring the adequate
maintenance of existing facilities and equipment; and providing
training for clinical and managerial services.
(c)     Improving access to Primary Health Care in Remote and
Underdeveloped areas through
(i) selective upgrading of community and primary health
centers; and
(ii) improving referral mechanisms and strengthening linkages
with the secondary and tertiary health care levels.
4.      Project Implementation. The project will be managed and
implemented by the state's Department of Health and Family Welfare.
A Project Governing Board (PGB) would be at the top of the project
management structure. It will include high level representation
from all relevant parts of the state Government that are associated
with the project. The PGB would be fully empowered to make major
policy decisions and develop the broad policy outline for the
project; approve the annual budget; authorize major project
revisions as necessary; formulate rules and regulations; and
undertake an annual review of project implementation and monitor
overall project progress. The PGB would have the responsibility for
supervising the activities of project management. Project
management would be supported by the use of consultancy/professional
services under technical assistance, especially with regard to the
management of civil works. The PGB would meet as and when
necessary. The Policy and Planning Unit would report to the PGB.
5.      Reporting to the PGB would be the Project Management Cell
(PMC). The PMC would be headed by an Additional Secretary as the
Project Administrator. This function would be assisted by medical,
technical, engineering services, financial management and
administration and personnel divisions. The functions of the PMC
would include all aspects of routine project management, monitoring
progress, maintaining flow-of-funds and project account, providing
technical guidance and general administration, and preparing
progress reports.
6.      At the district level, District Health Committees (DHCs) would
- 2 -



be established in all districts to facilitate functioning of the
various activities to be carried out under the project. The DHCs
would facilitate the collection and distribution of user charges,
maintenance of equipment, waste management, training of technical
staff, quality assurance, surveillance of major communicable
diseases and monitoring and supervision of project related activities.
7.      Project Cost and Financing.   Preliminary project costs are
estimated at US$115 million, of which Bank Group financing would be
about US$90 million.
Contact Point:           Tawhid Nawaz, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-0363
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending December 12, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Environmental and Social Aspects.
Environmental Impact: While the project will not contribute to any
sizable increase in hospital waste, it will address the issue of the
management of medical waste at the facility level, including collection,
storage and final disposal. Due to concern with regard to the use of
incineration technology and the expressed concern that the incineration of
plastics results in emissions of dioxins and furans, alternative
disposal technology will be fully evaluated. The state will produce
an environmental action plan and the project preparation team will
review the plan and incorporate it into project design. Poverty
Aspects. A large proportion of project beneficiaries will be from
poor and underprivileged segments of the state's population.
Indigenous Peoples. Orissa has a large scheduled tribe population,
and tribal peoples are likely to be substantial project
beneficiaries. The proposed project would therefore address issues
related to (i) strengthening linkages between primary and first
referral health services; (ii) providing an incentive package to
doctors and medical staff in tribal areas to encourage them to
accept the assignment; and (iii) increasing appropriate utilization
of non-tribal medical systems by tribal populations and reducing the
cost to tribals of doing so. Gender Issues. The project would
establish linkages with the reproductive and child health (RCH)
project in the state, and provide an appropriate RCH package at the
first referral level. In addition, the project would promote a
life-cycle approach to women's health through information, education
and communication inputs.
-4-



