Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N041-IN
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Orissa Health Systems Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of International Development Association, as amended
Dated August 13, 1998
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N041-IN 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1998, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as 
administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established 
with funds contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution 
No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as amended. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B) the Administrator has received a letter dated April 20, 1998 from the State 
of Orissa, describing a program of objectives, policies and actions to improve the 
primary and secondary levels of health care (the Orissa Health Sector Development 
Program) and declaring its commitment to carry out such Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;  
(D)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Orissa, with the 
Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the State of Orissa the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit as provided 
Page  2
in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Administrator and the State of Orissa;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through \0bDecember 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account” 
respectively; and 
(c)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“District Health Committee” means the District Health Committee (Zilla 
Swasthya Samithi) established in each district, which will be responsible for, inter 
alia, monitoring and supervision activities to be carried out under the Project at the 
district level, including collection and distribution of user charges, maintenance of 
equipment, waste management, training of technical staff, quality assurance and 
surveillance of major communicable diseases; 
(b)
“DOHFW” means the Department of Health and Family Welfare of Orissa (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(c)
“Environmental Action Plan” means the action plan for the treatment and 
management of health care waste, including actions to be taken within hospital 
premises and actions to be taken regarding ultimate disposal outside hospital 
premises, set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined), as 
the same may be updated in consultation with the Administrator to include medium- and 
long-term plans;
(d)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and Orissa, 
which begins on April 1 of a calendar year and ends on March 31 of the following 
calendar year; 
(e)
“Orissa” means the Borrower’s State of Orissa, or any successor thereto; 
(f)
“Policy and Strategic Planning Unit” means the existing Policy and 
Strategic Planning Unit of DOHFW responsible for developing and reviewing health 
sector policy issues for Orissa; 
(g)
“Primary and Secondary Levels of Health Care” means preventive and 
curative health care provided by subcenters, primary health centers, community health 
centers and area, subdivisional and district hospitals in Orissa; 
Page  3
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Administrator and 
Orissa of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan for 
the carrying out of the Project, dated April 1, 1998 and approved by the 
Administrator;
(j)
“Project Management Cell” means the Project Management Cell established 
within DOHFW, which will be responsible for, inter alia, performing routine Project 
management, monitoring progress, maintaining the flow of funds and project account, 
providing technical guidance and general administration, and preparing progress 
reports; 
(k)
“Project Review Committee” means the Project Review Committee established 
by Orissa, which will be responsible for, inter alia, making major policy decisions 
and developing the broad policy outline for the Project, approving the annual budget, 
authorizing major Project revisions as necessary, ratifying decisions of the Steering 
Committee (as hereinafter defined), and undertaking an annual review of Project 
implementation and monitoring overall Project progress; 
(l)
“Scheduled Tribes” means the population groups specified as “Scheduled 
Tribes” pursuant to Article 342 of the Constitution of India; 
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee established by Orissa 
and reporting to the Project Review Committee, which will be responsible for, inter 
alia, overseeing and monitoring Project implementation, undertaking Project planning, 
and facilitating Project management; and 
(o)
“Tribal Strategy” means the strategy for increasing the utilization of 
the Primary and Secondary Levels of Health Care by the Scheduled Tribes in Orissa, as 
set forth in the chapter on “Health Services for Indigenous People and Disadvantaged 
Groups” in the Project Implementation Plan. 
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-six million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 56,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2008 and 
ending May 15, 2033. Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 
15, 2018 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such 
principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. ARTICLE III Execution of 
the Project Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause Orissa to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Page  5
Agreement all the obligations of Orissa therein set forth, shall take and cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Orissa to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit available 
to Orissa in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Administrator hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project shall be carried out by Orissa pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the carrying out of the mid-term 
review of the Project referred to in paragraph 15 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year 
in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the 
report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Orissa shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Orissa will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
Orissa Health Sector Development Program or a significant part of such Program will be 
carried out. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of Administrator 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by Orissa and is legally binding upon it in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  7
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ V. Govindarajan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established
with funds contributed by certain members of
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association, as amended
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
       Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  21,100,000
90% 
(2)
Equipment, furniture,
  15,100,000
100% of foreign
instruments, medicines,
expenditures;
vehicles, supplies and
100% of local
materials
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
Page  8
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services,
   4,900,000
100%
professional services,
training, fellowships,
workshops and studies
(4)
Incremental operations
  10,000,000
80% of local 
expendi-
and maintenance costs
tures incurred 
through
March 31, 2001; 55% 
of expenditures 
incurred
from April 1, 2001 
through March 31, 
2003;
and 25% of 
expenditures
incurred thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
  5,700,000
      ____________
TOTAL
 56,800,000
=========== 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operations and maintenance costs” means the 
following additional costs incurred in carrying out the Project: (i) salaries of 
additional staff; and (ii) operation and maintenance of vehicles, equipment, buildings 
and offices. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
800,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1997.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works 
under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent each; (b) goods (except vehicles) 
under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent each; (c) vehicles under contracts 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (d) services under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent in the case of firms and $50,000 equivalent in the case of 
individuals; and (e) incremental operations and maintenance costs; all under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist Orissa in: (i) improving efficiency 
in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and institutional 
development; and (ii) improving the performance of the health care system through 
improvements in the quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services at the 
Page  9
secondary level and selective coverage at the community level, so as to improve the 
health status of the people, especially the poor, by reducing mortality, morbidity and 
disability.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Management Development and Institutional Strengthening 
1.
Improving the institutional framework for policy development through the 
strengthening of the Policy and Strategic Planning Unit to develop and review state 
level health sector policy issues, including public and private health care, burden of 
disease and cost-effectiveness of public health interventions, medical manpower, cost 
recovery mechanisms and sectoral resource allocation patterns.
2.
Strengthening management and implementation capacity through: (i) establishing 
the Project Review Committee, the Steering Committee and the Project Management Cell; 
(ii) involving the District Health Committees in the implementation of the Project at 
the district level; (iii) providing additional staff at Headquarters of DOHFW;\0b(iv) 
enhancing the computerized system of data collection and utilization through the 
provision of hardware and software, and consultancy support; (v) training management 
staff in appropriate record keeping; (vi) introducing a revised medical reporting 
system for in-patients and diagnostic services; (vii) housing all DOHFW staff at the 
Secretariat and Directorates in a consolidated facility; (viii) establishing an 
information resource center in Bhubaneshwar under DOHFW for health professionals; and 
(ix) developing a computerized financial management system for use and operation by 
the Project Management Cell.
3.
Developing surveillance capacity for major communicable diseases by:\0b(i) 
strengthening the existing surveillance system to cover the identification of cases 
through education of health workers and community involvement, indexing of cases or 
isolation of cases and treatment; and (ii) establishing district task forces to be 
responsible for selected disease surveillance activities at the district level.
Part B:
Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at District, Subdivisional 
and Area 
Hospitals 
1.
Renovation and extension of district, subdivisional and area hospitals and 
construction of staff quarters.
2.
Improving the effectiveness of clinical, management and support services at 
district, subdivisional and area hospitals through: (i) improving the system for the 
procurement and distribution of drugs; (ii) applying streamlined norms and standards 
for clinical and support services; (iii) adopting staffing and equipment norms 
conforming to services provided at each type of facility; (iv) establishing a system 
for monitoring improvements in the quality of clinical care through the adoption of a 
quality assurance program; (v) expanding the capacity of support services; (vi) 
enhancing staff skills in clinical and technical areas through the provision of 
training to improve the quality and range of services; (vii) strengthening management 
training for professional staff and ongoing in-service training for clinical and 
technical staff to facilitate the implementation of the quality improvement strategy 
of the Project; and (viii) improving the management of health care waste.
3.
Strengthening the management system for information collected under different 
health programs to improve program performance and monitoring, information flows and 
feedback mechanisms through: (i) developing standard formats for hospital record 
keeping, improving storage facilities for medical records, and providing training for 
medical records personnel; (ii) providing training to district level staff in data 
analysis and computer use and appropriate equipment and supplies; and (iii) providing 
similar training to state level staff.
Part C:
Improving Access to Basic Health Services 
1.
Strengthening community health centers through renovation and extension, 
additional manpower, and the provision of equipment, drugs and other supplies.
Page  10
2.
Promoting basic health services for the Scheduled Tribes in Orissa through: (i) 
improving the quality of services; (ii) providing effective information, education and 
communication regarding benefits of using government health services; (iii) 
strengthening linkages between primary and secondary health care services; (iv) 
providing an incentive package to doctors in tribal areas to encourage them to accept 
assignments in these areas; (v) increasing access to health care services through the 
provision of mobile health clinics and annual health camps; and (vi) reducing the cost 
of utilizing these services.
3.
Improving the referral system and strengthening linkages between different tiers 
of the health care system through: (i) strengthening the management of the referral 
system; (ii) implementing referral protocols; (iii) implementing clinical management 
protocols; and (iv) establishing an incentive system with differentiated user fees for 
users and non-users of the referral system.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator 
from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
Page  11
been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
