Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N041-IN
Project Agreement
(Orissa Health Systems Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of International Development Association, 
as amended
and
STATE OF ORISSA
Dated August 13, 1998
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N041-IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13 1998, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim 
trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as amended, and the 
STATE OF ORISSA, acting by its Governor (Orissa).
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Administrator has received a letter dated April 20, 1998 from the 
State of Orissa, describing a program of objectives, policies and actions to improve 
the primary and secondary levels of health care (the Orissa Health Sector Development 
Program) and declaring its commitment to carry out such Program;
(C) by the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between India (the Borrower) and the Administrator, the Administrator has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-six 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 56,800,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Orissa agree to undertake such obligations toward the Administrator as 
Page  2
are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Orissa, in consideration of the Administrator’s entering into the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake 
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a)  Orissa declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and health practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Administrator and Orissa shall otherwise agree, Orissa shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Orissa shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Orissa shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the 
Administrator and Orissa, a plan 
designed to ensure the sustainability of the 
Project; and
(ii)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with 
Orissa on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Orissa shall, at the request of the Administrator, exchange 
views with the Administrator with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
Orissa shall promptly inform the Administrator of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, or the performance by 
Orissa of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Orissa shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b) Orissa 
shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the 
report of such 
audit by said auditors of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension; 
Designation of the Administrator
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and 
Orissa thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement 
shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Administrator shall promptly notify Orissa of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to Orissa.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Orissa:
Chief Secretary to the
  Government of Orissa
Bhubaneshwar, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Orissa may be 
taken or executed by its Health Secretary or such other person or persons as Orissa 
shall designate in writing, and Orissa shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established 
with funds contributed by certain members of
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association, as amended
By  /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
STATE OF ORISSA
By /s/ Sanujit Ghosh 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Page  5
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, (i) contracts for goods (except vehicles) shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent each and (ii) 
contracts for vehicles shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost more than 
$100,000 equivalent each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Civil Works
(a)
Civil works estimated to cost more than $45,000 equivalent per contract 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Civil works estimated to cost $45,000 equivalent or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,150,000 equivalent, may:
(i)
with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, up to 
an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $750,000 equivalent;
(ii)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response 
to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Administrator, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully; or
(iii)
as a last resort, be carried out by force account in a manner 
satisfactory to 
the Administrator, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,800,000 
equivalent. 
2.
Goods (Except Vehicles)
(a)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,210,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $220,000 equivalent, may be procured 
Page  6
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Vehicles
Vehicles estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Maintenance of Buildings and Equipment
Services for maintenance of buildings and equipment, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $4,650,000 equivalent:
(a)
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines if they are estimated to cost 
more than $25,000 equivalent per contract; and
(b)
may, if they are estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per 
contract:
(i)
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the 
Guidelines if they meet the requirements of said paragraph; 
or
(ii)
as a last resort, be carried out by force account in accordance 
with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines if they 
meet the requirements of 
said paragraph.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) each contract for civil works estimated to cost more than 
the equivalent of $300,000, (b) the first two contracts for civil works estimated to 
cost more than the equivalent of $45,000 but not more than the equivalent of $300,000, 
(c) each contract for goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $200,000, (d) the first two contracts for goods (except vehicles) 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $30,000 but not more than the equivalent 
of $200,000 and (e) each contract for vehicles estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Page  7
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per 
contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services provided by (i) consultants which meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.9 of the Consultant Guidelines and are estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,980,000 equivalent, (ii) a 
procurement agent for contracts for civil works for the first year of Project 
implementation and estimated to cost $300,000 or less and (iii) a procurement agent 
for contracts for equipment, instruments and furniture for the first year of Project 
implementation and estimated to cost $200,000 or less may be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  8
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
Project Implementation Plan 
1.
Orissa shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Plan. Policy and Strategic Planning Unit 
2.
Orissa shall, by December 31, 1998, strengthen the Policy and Strategic Planning 
Unit with adequate powers, functions, staff and resources satisfactory to the 
Administrator and maintain such Unit during the implementation of the Project. Project 
Management Cell 
3.
Orissa shall complete, by December 31, 1998, the recruitment of, and thereafter 
maintain, personnel in the Project Management Cell with adequate skills, 
qualifications and experience. 
4.
Orissa shall take all such measures as may be necessary or advisable in order to 
provide to the Project Management Cell, and thereafter maintain, authority to manage 
the activities to be carried out under the Project, including civil works construction 
and maintenance.
Project Review Committee and Steering Committee 
5.
Orissa shall maintain the Project Review Committee and the Steering Committee 
during the implementation of the Project with composition, powers, functions and 
resources as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan. 
Allocation of Resources
6.
Orissa shall:
(a)
ensure that within the resources (plan and non-plan) allocated to the 
health sector in each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project, the share 
of resources for the Primary and Secondary Levels of Health Care shall be increased in 
each such Fiscal Year from the immediately preceding Fiscal Year through FY 2004; and
(b)
allocate in each such Fiscal Year at district, subdivisional and area 
hospitals and community health centers covered under the Project adequate resources 
for drugs in accordance with norms set forth in Annex 2 to Chapter III of the Project 
Implementation Plan and essential supplies and maintenance of equipment and buildings 
in accordance with norms set forth in the Project Implementation Plan. 
Hospital Staffing and Technical Norms 
7.
Orissa shall adopt, within six months after completion of the renovation and 
extension of each hospital under the Project, and thereafter maintain and implement, 
staffing and technical norms for improving the quality of health care services 
provided at such hospital as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan. 
User Charges
8.
Orissa shall continue to implement a program for collecting user charges at 
district hospitals, such program to focus, inter alia, on: (a) strengthening 
collection of existing user charges and management arrangements; (b) implementing 
revised user charges in a phased manner within six months after completion of the 
renovation and extension of each hospital and adoption of staffing and technical norms 
at such hospital; (c) permitting the revenues collected from user charges to be 
retained at the hospital level; and (d) reviewing and revising the mechanism for 
targeting beneficiaries below the poverty line for exemption from user charges, as 
necessary or appropriate. 
Referral Protocols and Guidelines 
Page  9
9.
Orissa shall establish by March 31, 1999, and thereafter maintain and implement, 
referral protocols and guidelines satisfactory to the Administrator. 
Tribal Strategy 
10.
Orissa shall implement the Tribal Strategy in tribal areas (as designated by 
Orissa) in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedule and 
other provisions set out therein.
Environmental Action Plan 
11.
Orissa shall implement the Environmental Action Plan in accordance with the 
objectives, policies, procedures, time schedule and other provisions set out therein. 
Resettlement and Rehabilitation 12.
Orissa shall ensure that no civil works which 
may result in the involuntary resettlement of people will be undertaken under the 
Project. 
Annual Review and Work Plan; Budgetary Allocations
13.
Orissa shall:
(a)
by April 30 of each year during the implementation of the Project 
beginning with April 30, 1999:
(i)
provide to the Administrator an annual work plan, acceptable to 
the 
Administrator, setting forth the activities under the 
Project to be carried 
out during the prevailing Fiscal Year 
including the budgetary allocations to 
be made available for such 
purpose, as well as the performance benchmarks and 
development 
objectives to be achieved and drawn from the overall framework 
agreed to be achieved under the Project including, inter alia, hospital 
activity indicators, hospital efficiency indicators, and quality, access and 
effectiveness indicators to be measured in accordance with methodology 
satisfactory to the Administrator; and
(ii)
review with the Administrator the progress achieved in 
implementing the 
Project under the annual work plan for the 
previous Fiscal Year and the 
interim plan referred to in 
subparagraph (c) of this paragraph with special 
reference to the 
achievement of the performance benchmarks and development 
objectives incorporated therein;
(b)
implement each annual work plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Administrator; and
(c)
implement the Project until the formulation of the first annual work plan 
in accordance with an interim plan agreed with the Administrator. 
14.
Orissa shall ensure that sufficient budgetary allocations for the annual work 
plans and the interim plan referred to in paragraph 13 of this Schedule are made 
available on a timely basis to meet the resource requirements under such plans. 
Monitoring and Evaluation; Mid-term Review
15.
Orissa shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, by May 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
Page  10
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
