CREDIT NUMBER 146 CA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 3, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 146 CA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 3, 1969


﻿BrodaLpu~tu Trz-it Agrwimtt
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 1969, between the CEN-
TRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated
January 31, 1969 (said General Conditions applicable to
Development Credit Agreements being hereinafter called
the General Conditions), with the same force and effect as
*                   if they were fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million two hundred thousand dollars
($4,200,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Credit Account the amount of the
Credit.


﻿4
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified
from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule 1 or by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(a) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for expenditures under
Category IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) (i) the equivalent of fifty per cent (50%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for expenditures under Cate-
gories I and III of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit set forth in said Schedule 1; and (ii) the
equivalent of seventy-five per cent (75%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for expenditures under Cate-
gory II of such allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of expenditures under said Categories II or III,
the Association may by notice to the Borrower adjust the
stated percentage applicable to such Category as required
in order that withdrawals of the amount of the Credit
then allocated to such Category and not withdrawn may


﻿5
continue pro rata with the expenditures remaining to be
made under such Category.
SECTION 2.04. (a) No withdrawals from the Credit Ac-
count shall be made on account of expenditures for: (i)
goods produced in, or services supplied from, the terri-
tories of the Borrower and to be financed under Category
IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; or (ii) taxes imposed by
the Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on or in
connectioL with the importation or supply of, goods or
services required for the Project and to be financed under
this Development Credit Agreement.
(b) In derogation of Section 5.01 of the General Condi-
tions, it is hereby agreed that withdrawals from the Credit
Account may be made on account of expenditures for: (i)
soil and topographic surveys made prior to the date of this
Agreement but after January 1, 1968 (Category I of such
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit); and (ii) expendi-
tures for consultant services made prior to the date of this
Agreement but after December 1, 1968 (Category III of
such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit).
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the Republic of France
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/4 of 1%'o) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
SECTIoN 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each September 1


﻿and March 1 commencing September 1, 1979 and ending
March 1, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on March 1, 1989 to be one-half of one per
cent (  of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1 %o)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement to expenditures on the Project, described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (a) the goods and services included in Categories
II and IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the " Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank in Febru-
ary 1968, and in accordance with such other procedures
supplementary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, and as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association; and (b) contracts for the procure-
ment of all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, other than those referred to in Section
2.04(b) of this Agreement and entered into prior to the
date of this Development Credit Agreement, shall be sub-
ject to the prior approval of the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in carrying out the Project until the completion
thereof.
0


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engi-
neering, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the evaluation of bids and
the supervision of the reconstruction works under Part I of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to be
carried out by competent and experienced personnel. If
such evaluation cannot be performed by the Borrower's
Department of Public Works to the satisfaction of the
Association, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed competent and experienced consultants acceptable
to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all works included in the Project to
be carried out by contractors acceptable to the Associa-
tion, employed under contracts satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
reports, plans, specificitions, contract documents and work
schedules for the Pi >ject and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(e) The general design standards to be applied to the
Project shall be as determined from time to time by agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-


﻿80
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices, the operations, administration and finiancial
condition of any department or agency of the Borrower
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part
thereof or the maintenance of all works, facilities and
equipment related thereto and shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents.
SEOTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Assoc"ation
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Association shall from time to time at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to: the performance by the Borrower
of its obligations under this Development Credit Agree-
ment, the administration, operations and financial condition
of any department or agency of the Borrower responsible
for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof or
the maintenance of all works, facilities and equipment re-
lated thereto, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all
su-h information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest concerning: the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit, the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds, the Project, and the administration, operations and
financial condition of any department or agency of the
Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project or
any part thereof or the maintenance of all works, facilities
and equipment related thereto.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the


﻿9
Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof or the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement. On the part of the Bor-
rower, such information shall include information with
respect to financial and economic conditions in the terri-
tories of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable oppor-
tunity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the prin-
cipal public roads of the Borrower to be adequately main-
tained and cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made,
all in accordance with sound engineering practices; (ii)
cause all of its road maintenance equipment to be ade-
quately maintained and all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made, all in accordance with sound engineer-
ing practices; (iii) cause suitable workshops to be estab-
lished and maivtained in suitable places for the foregoing;
and (iv) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the foregoing.
SECTION 4.05. Upon receipt by the Borrower of the
recommendations for the improvement of road mainte-
nance, pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.01(a) (i) of
the Plan of Operation dated December 10, 1968, between
the Borrower, the United Nations Development Programme
(Special Fund) and the Bank, the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation shall exchange views thereon with a view to agree-
ing upon an appropriate organization of road maintenance
operations in the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary
action to introduce and implement as soon as practicable
measures designed to ensure that the dimensions and axle-
loads of vehicles using its public roads and bridges shall


﻿10
not exceed limits consistent with the structural and geo-
metric design standards of such roads and bridges.
(b) The Borrower shall establish and maintain facilities
adequate to collect and record, in accordance with appro-
priate statistical methods and procedures, such technical,
economic and financial information as shall be reasonably
required for proper planning of maintenance, improve-
ments and extensions of its public roads system.
SECTION 4.07 The Borrower undertakes to insure or
cause to be insured the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
SECTION 4.08. (a) The principal of, and service charges
on, the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and
free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, im-
posed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in
its territories.
(b) The Development Credit Agreement shall be free
from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in con-
nection with the execution, delivery or registration the-eof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 0.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the Generfl Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then, at any subse-
quent time during the continuance thereof, the Association,
at its option, may by notice to the Borrower, declare the
principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and


﻿11
payable immediately, together with the service charges
thereon, and upon any such declaration such principal, to-
gether with such charges, shall become due and payable
immediately, anything in this Development Credit Agree-
ment to the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
SECTION 6.01. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1973
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 6.02. The date June 16, 1969 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 6.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Ti avaux Publics
Bangui
Central African Republic
Cable address:
Minitravaux
Bangui
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
SECTION 6.04. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ MICHEL GALLIN-DOUATHE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation cf the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                           in Dollar Equivalent
I  Soil and topographic surveys              20,000
II  Reconstruction works for Part I of
the Project                             3,230,000
III  Evaluation of bids and supervision
of reconstruction works                    40,000
IV   Road maintenance equipment and
spare parts                               250,000
V   Unallocated                              660,000
4,200,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall decrease, the amount of the
Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for, such
Category will be reallocated by the Association to Cate-
gory V.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of Category II,
an amount equal to 75o of such increase or, in the case
of Category III, an amount equal to 50% of such increase)
will be allocated by the Association at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from     Category V, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as de-
termined by the Association in respect of the cost of the
items in the other Categories.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project consists of :
I. Completion of detailed engineering, preparation of
bidding documents and reconstruction of the Bangui-
M 'baiki road (about 102 kms), and engineering super-
vision of such reconstruction works.
II. The procurement of highway maintenance equipment
and spare parts required for the adequate mainte-
nance of the Bangui-M'baiki road.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31,
1972.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to goods and services included in Cate-
gories II and IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement, required
to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding under Section 3.02 of this Agreement, identical or
similar items to be procured shall be grouped together
wherever practicable for the purposes of bidding and pro-
curement, and such grouping of items shall be subject to
the approval of the Association.
2. With respect to contracts with the contractors referred
to in Section 4.01(c) of this Agreement:
(a) Prior to inviting bids, information concerning the
advertising coverage, prequalification procedures, as well
as the invitations to bid, specifications, the proposed
terms and conditions of the contract, and all other tender
documents, shall be submitted to the Association for its
approval. Subsequent to such approval, bids will be
invited and the time interval referred to in Section 3.1 of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank in Feb-
ruary 1968 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), between
invitations to bid and bid opening, shall be equal to at
least 60 days. During such time interval, prospective
bidders will be afforded an opportunity to visit the site
of the works and to discuss with the Directorate General
of Public Works of the Borrower any questions relating
to the proposed works and contract.
(b) Before awarding such contract, the Borrower shall
submit to the Association for its approval an abstract
and an evaluation of the bids received, the Borrower's
evaluation thereof as well as the consultants', if any, and
0


﻿16
the Borrower's proposal concerning the contract and the
award. The contract will be awarded to the bidder offer-
ing the lowest evaluated bid determined to be the most
favorable in regard to technical and financial considera-
tions and practices. If it is proposed to award the con-
tract to other than the bidder offering the lowest evalu-
ated price, the reason for such an exception to Section
3.9 of the Guidelines shall be stated. Within 28 working
days after obtaining the Association's approval required
herein, the Borrower shall award the contract. One cer-
tified copy of the signed contract shall be sent to the
Association promptly upon its execution.
(c) The successful contractor shall furnish a 100%
performance bond or a bank guarantee at least equal to
10% of the contract price, in accordance with Section 2.6
of the Guidelines. In addition, the contract will provide,
under Section 4.5 of the Guidelines, for retention money
at least equal to 10% of the amount payable under each
monthly invoice until a total amount equal to 5% of the
total contract price shall have been reached or, if the
Borrower and the Association shall so agree, for a bank
guarantee equal to 5% of such total contract price. Any
amount so withheld as retention money will be released
upon the contractor's full performance of the contract,
which will include a warranty period for defective work
equal to one year.
3. With respect to contracts for the services of con-
sultants referred to in Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall follow the procedures set forth in "Uses
of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrower ", pub-
lished by the Bank in September 1966. One copy of any
such contract intended to be signed shall be sent to the
Association for its approval prior to signature, and one
certified copy of any such signed contract shall be sent to
the Association promptly upon its execution.


﻿17
4. Whenever a contract under the Project is awarded
to a supplier, contractor or consultant not registered in
the Central African Republic, the Borrower shall facilitate
the accomplishment by such supplier, contractor or con-
sultant of all regulatory formalities which may be required
to enable it to carry out such contract.


