Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10684-PA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
AUGUST 21, 1992
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Guarani (G/.)
March 1, 1992                  US$Dollar                      Guarani
Free Market Rate                 US$1                          1,450
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FlSCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CORPOSANA   =            Corporation for Sanitary Works
CRS         =           Catholic Relief Services
GTZ         =           Technical Assistance Agency of the German Government
IDB         =            Interamerican Development Bank
JUNTAS      =            Juntas Locales de Saneamiento - Community-level
Sanitation Committees
KFW         =            German Development Bank
PAHO        =           Pan-American Health Organization
SENASA      =           National Environmental Sanitation Service
STP         =            Secretaria Tecnica de Planificaci6n - Technical
Planning Secretariat
TAP         =            Technical Assistance Program
UNDP        =           United Nations Development Program
UNICEF      =           United Nations Childrens Fund
USAID       =            United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Tabl, of Contents
Pa~
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................                 ..       .       .       ii
I.     THE SECTOR
A.    Country Setting ..........................l
B. Sector Overview... .                                                            2
C.  Sector Investments...... ... . .                                               5
D.  Previous Bank Experience..... . .                                               5
E.  Sector Strategy .... . .                            ...                         6
IT.    THE PROJECT
A.  Project Origin....                                             .... 7
B.  Project Objectives                ...                    ....                    8
C.  Project Description......                                                       8
D.  Costs Estimates 9.. ............9
E. Financing Plan                                ... ....10
P.  Executing Agency and Beneficiaries                        ....11
G. Implementation                                 ..... 15
H. Procurement                          ....20
I.  Disbursement                         .       .       .        ............... 22
J.  Monitoring and Evaluation                      ....23
III.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Project Justification  . .23
B. Risks .26
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached .26
B. Recommendation .28
This report is bated on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Luis V. Chang
(Mission Leader) and Carlos Moreno-Pineda, which visited Paraguay in February 1992. Emes. Jennifer
Sara and Iris Marmanillo (consultant) and Messrs. Steven Haber and Alan Carroll also contibuted to
the report, based on their participation in previous missions. Mr. William Hayvil.e contributed to
the preparation of the report. Hr. Alfonso SAnchez was peer reviewer. Supervision Managers include:
Hr. Alain Thys, Division Chief and Hr. Ping-Cheung Loh, Department Director.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Previous Bank Experience
Annex 2 - Project Cost Pstimate
Annex 3 - Organizational Structure of SENASA
Annex 4 - Finances of SENASA
Annex 5 - Affordability Study
Annex 6 - List of Communities
Annex 7 - Implementation of Water Projects
Annex 8 - Small Community Program
Annex 9 - Technical Assistance Program
Annex 10 - Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 11 - Loan Disbursements
M. nex 12 - Revolving Fund - Terms of Reference
Annex 13 - List of Documents in Project File
Nap
IBRD 23866



( i )
PAIAGIIAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUP PY AND IAMITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJ-'T aUMM(RY
mgrremern          The Republic of Paraguay.
Excutin
Asencv:            Servicio Nacional de Saneamiento (SENASA)
Logan hagoun       US$23.0 million equivalent
T-erxes:           Repayment in 20 years,  including 5 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. Proceeds of
the Loan would be passed on by the Republic of Paraguay to
SENASA as a grant.
Proloct
Obiectives:        The objective of the proposed Bank operation is to improve
health conditions in the rural population by assisting the
Government in: (a) organizing a sector financing system based
on greater reliance on water users self-financing capabilityl
(b) a revision of policies to accommodate differential service
levels based on community ability to pay and maintain the
systems; (c) providing potable water and sanitation to about
250,000 people through house connections and other low cost
tochnologies; (d) strengthen SERASA's capability for project
implementation through a technical assistance progrez.
Prol ct
Descrgtxlon         The project would consist of:  (a) building water supply
systems in about 170 rural communities, benefiting about
230,000 inhabitants (722 of project costs); (b) provision and
improvement of on-site sanitation systems for about 250,000
inhabitants (92 of project cost); (c) provision of water
supply and sanitation systems to about 20,000 of the dispersed
rural population and indigenous settlements through low-cost
appropriate technologies (82 of project cost); (d) a technical
assistance program consisting of consulting services of
experts with international exparience tc assist and train
SENASA personnel In how to carry out required special studies,
project implementation techniques and development of an
educational and promotional program to encourage community
participation (42 of project cost); and (e) institutional
improvements for O&M Including acquisition of well drilling
equipment and spare parts for existing equipment, tools for
regional repair shops, improvement of office facilities and
equipment (computers, communications systems, etc.), vehicles
for project implementation, and supervision (72 of project
cost).



( ii )
The proposed project would ameliorate the living and health
cond.itions of the rural population by providing potable water
and san'tation facilities. Sinc, obtaiting water for the
family i, usually the resporsibility of women in the rural
communities of Paraguay. improved access to water supply and
adequate sanitation would have a positive and direct impact on
the quality of life and productivity of rural women.
WUska and
Snafiuagdt          There are no unusual project risks. The major risk concerns
the limited capecity of SERASA to carry out a project of tnis
magnitude in a timely way. During project preparation SENASA
has already made substantial improvements in its organization,
which will be strengthened by the strong technical assistAnce
program built into the project.
Estimated Coatt
Table It TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
DESCRIPTION                  USq Millions           x
Local  Foreign   Total
Construction Works
(a) Water Systems to 170 communities  8.0    12.2   20.2       68
Cb) Sanitation to 250,000 inhabitants 0.7  1.8       2.5        8
(e) Water to Dispersed Population  0.8     1.2       2.0        7
'e) Equipment, Parts and Vehicles  0.2     1.9       2.0        7
Total Construction Cost            9.6    17.1      26.7       90
Engineering and Administration     0.7     1.2       1.9        6
Technical Assistance Progzam       0.3     1.0       1.3        4
Total Base Costs                  10.6    19.2      29.8      100
Physical Contingencies             0.8     1.3       2.1
Price Contingencies                1.6     2.8       4.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                13.1     23.2      36.3
percent        37      63       100
Table 2: Prolect Financing Plan
Local        Poreian       Total        S
---------     (US$ million)-------
Bank                         --         23.0          23.0          63
Users                       9.0           --           9.0          25
SENASA                      4.A          --            4.3         i1
TOTAL                      13.3         23.0          36.3         100
Di8bursM&nts:
DBank        1993          1994         1995          1996          1997         1998
Annual         1.8          3.4           5.1          5.4           4.3          3.0
Cumulative   1.8            5.2          10.3         15.7         20.0          23.0



PARAOUAY
TUIRD RURAM PAAER SlPPLY AND SSANITATION PROJTECT
STAFl APPRAISAL REPORT
r, qNX an
A.   Country -ettina
1.01      Paraguay, a landlocked country with an area of 407,000 km2, is a
predominantly agricultural country with a low population density. It had one of
the best economic performance records in Latin America during the 1960s and
1970.. During the 1980., economic growth declined, and was further hampered by
a deterioration in econom>7 policies and poor public sector investments. Recent
political developments as well as past investments offer an opportunity for high
growth rates and financial stability. The country is divided administratively
into 19 departments: 14 in the eastern region and 5 in the western. Each of
these departments consists of a varying number of districts. There are currently
206 municipal districts with new, publicly elected mayors for the first time
since about 1954.
1.02      Population.   The 1991 total population of Paraguay is estimated at
4.3 million people, with only 34% of the population living in urban centers of
more than 4,000 inhabitants. The annual population growth rate between 1980 and
1990 was 3.1% p.a. and projections are estimated at 2.5% for the rest of the
decade. Geographical distribution is very uneven. About 98% is concentrated in
14 departments in the eastern region, whereas only 2% is located in 5 departments
in the western region.
1.03      Health.   For 1980-90, life expectancy is estimated at 66 years, and
infant mortality is estimated at 32 per 1,000 live births.   Average infant
mortality and life expectancy are below Latin American country averages, but this
masks the differences between rural and urban populations.   The Ministry of
Public Health reports that diarrheal diseases are among the five major causes of
hospitalization. Health statistics in Paraguay are only partial, and thus do not
permit a thorough analysis of the ir.cidence of waterborne diseases; however, the
recent findings of the Bank Public Expenditure Review reveals that waterborne
diseases are the major cause of infant mortality.
1.04      Water Resources.   Paraguay is located in the basins of the Parana,
Paraguay, and Pilcomayo rivers, whose effluents provide abundant surface water.
Paraguay also has extensive ground water resources in the eastern region that
provide the supply for domestic consumption in most small communities.   A
systematized hydrogeological map has been made with all available data providing
info--ation on the availability of ground water for human and animal consumption
and suggest simple solutions for use of such water resources while avoiding the
high treatment costs needed for surface water.
1.05      Limited surface water sources exist in the southern Departments to
support shallow well extraction (typically 4 to 15 meters deep) year round.



However, unprotected wells are prone to salinity and surface contamination,
especially from farm chemicals.  Abundant and good quality ground water supplies
exist at moderate depths (typically 80 to 150 meters) in sealed and often artisan
aquifers. Boreholes are easily drilled in 2 to 5 days with rotary-percussion
rigs.  They remain stable and viable except in the rare cases where massive
basalt outcrops produce limied flow rates. The Itaip6 hydroelectric project has
permittei the 3natallatioin cof a widespread national grid of electricity supply
throughout  khe southern and central Departments of Paraguay.  Consequently, the
majority of rural communities have access to a reliable source of electricity.
Accordingly, the majority of the water supply projects included in the previous
Bank Loans  used  electrical  pumps  installed  in borehole wells.    Similar
installations are anticipated for the proposed Bank project.
B.   Sector Overview
1.06      Service Levels.       Paraguay is characterized by unacceptably low
coverage in basic water services that have failed to keep pace with the country's
rapid development of productive  activities.   Currently,  only 24% of  its
population has access to safe water, one of the lowest service levels in the
Region. Leveln of service vary greatly between urban and rural areas. Some 46%
of the urban population, but only 8 of the rural population enjoy water supply
services; this compares unfavorably with an average of 84% in urban and 50% in
rural areas in Latin America as a whole.   Table 1.1 summarizes the water and
sewerage coverage in Paraguay in 1990.
Table 1.1   Water and Sauitatiln Coveraae as of 1990
Total Population x 1,000
Communities                   Water       z      Sewerage  |
Urban           1,680.4(1)      827.0   49.2       491.0     29.2
Rural          2,716.9          228.6    8.4      1388.7(2)



- 3 -
1.08      Sector Or&anization.   CORPOSANA is an agency of the Ministry of the
Interior that provides urban water suppl7 and sewerage services to cities with
populations above 4,000 inhabitants. It was established in 1954 to serve the
city of Asuncion only, but in 1965 its functions were expanded to serve other
cities in the country.   Greater Asuncion has benefitted from about 85% of
CORPOSANA's sector investments; about 582 of its population is served with piped
water. Besides Asuncion, the rest of the urban areas (about 33 cities of the
interior) have received only 15% of CORPOSANA's investment which is concentrated
in only 13 cities. As a result, peop3e living in urban areas outside Asuncion
for the most part have no access to piped water.  CORPOSANA administirs the water
systems of the interior cities from its headquarters in Asuncion and is
responsible for their operation and maintenance. Less than 30Z of the urban
population is linked to a sewerage system; the rest of the popula. -  uses a
storm-water system or on-site sanitation for final sewage disposal.  ..uncion's
water system is reported to have 33Z of unaccounted-for water, CORPOSANA is also
in charge of Asuncion's storm drainage system, a typical municipal/transport
activity.
1.09      In  recent  years,  CORPOSANA  has  shown  an  adequate  financial
performance.    Its  internal  cash generation has  covered  the  debt-service
requirements and part of the expansion program, though its level has been low
compared to the needs, specially in sewerage.   Investments have also been
financed from external rinancing agencies, especially IDB, and on a bilateral
basis from other countries. Other sources of financing have been: the receipts
from storm drainage, third-party contributions for expansion of the networks,
house connection fees, and the yield of special tr .s of 52 on alcoholic and non-
alcoholic beverages and 2% of the markup on sales of real estate i.n the
municipality of Asuncion.
1.10      Until 1972, the few sector activities carried out for rural wa:er
supply and sanitation services in communities wi.:h less than 4,000 inhabitants
were under the aegis of the Ministry of Public lealth. That year, SENASA, a
decentralized agency under the Ministry of Public Health, was created to execute
environmental  sanitation  projects  in  these  communities.   SENASA  is  a
semi-autonomous operating agency with its own enabling legislation (Law No. 369
of 1972) which allows it to enter into contracts directly. Since its creation,
SENASA has dealt with the following activities:   rural water supply and
sanitation, and control of water, air and soil pollution including solid waste
collection and disposal, occupational )hazards, industrial hygiene, vectors, and
food hygiene. Through the execution of two previous Bank loans (para. 1.18),
rural water and sanitation has become the main activity of SEMASA's program.
1.11      SENASA is headed by a Director General who reprorts to the Minister of
Health. Until late 1991, SENASA's administration did not assign personnel and
resources consistently among its various activities.  Staff and budgets were
allocated on an ad hoc basis according to immediate need. Out of a total of 470
permanent employees in late 1991, 388 were assigned to water and sanitation
activities. SENASA's field staff, assigned to the 15 Sanitary Regions of the
Ministry of Health: devote their time primarily to water and sanitation, but they
also must carry out various environmental health activities. The field staff for
water and sanitation activities consists of about 200 sanitation assistants.



- 4 -
1.12        The lack of a well-defined and sustained organizational structure
and the range of activities carried out by SENASA have over-extended its sector
planning and project management capacity with negative effects on the efficiency
of its operations.   F.nancial managemert and accountability have also been
adversely affected, as the various activities were not managed through separate
accounts.   During project preparation, an affordability study was conducted
(para. 2.25) to determine how to increase users' participation in project
investment and to strengthen SENASA's revolving fund. The Bank held discussione
with sector authorities and SENASA's top officials or the need to separate
clearly, within the organizational structure, water and sanitation fror the other
environmental health activities. The option of creating a new and dis inct rural
water and sanitation agency was discussed: however, because this would involve
significant organizational disruption, delay, and political implications, this
idea would be pursued later, during project execution.
1.13      The Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO) and UNDP have assisted
SENASA since its creation.  The Bank also has been substantially involved in
SENASA's development since 1977, through the Rural Water Supply P-ojects financed
under previous loans. SENASA has made important institutional improvements, such
as the creation of units in charge of promoting and coordinating community
participation, construction supervision, operation assistance to communities, and
efficiency in administrative procedures; however, increased responsibilities will
require further institutional strengthening.
1.14      Rural water sup* .y projects are implemented through the *reation of
Local Sanitation Committoes (Juntas) within the communities.   These Juntas
actively participate in the construction and financing of water supply and
sanitation systems. The Juntas follow a standard pattern delineated by SENASA
in the Rules and Regulations for the Juntas (Reglamento de las JuntaG de
Saneamiento, Decree 8910, September 10, 1974).  This document spells out the
organization and the obligations of each Junta and defines the relationship
between the Committees and SENASA. Once the systems are built, the Juntas fully
administer, operate, and maintain their system. The Juntas also service the debt
on their loan from SENASA and maintain a special fund for replacing equipment and
major repairs. SENASA provides technical assistance to the Juntas during the
initial phase of the operation and supervises them during the life of the loan.
The Juntas are also responsible for preparing proposals for approval by SENASA
on water service tariffs. The Juntas manage their own assets and funds and have
boards of directors and legal representatives. The Juntas are first organized
on a provisional basis by SENASA; one-e they obtain their legal charters, new
boards are elected. Each board is ue.;Ally composed of five people elected by the
community. Under previous loans, the Juntas have shown a willingness and ability
to learn; thus, in general, the community water supply systems are well managed.
New Juntas, however, share the following problems: (a) lack of experience in
water supply activities; (b) lack of training in accounting and basic managerial
skills; and (c) inadequate experience in operational and maintenance practices.
SENASA is aware of these shortcomings.
1.15      Financial performance of the Juntas are satisfactory.  Financial
statements for the Juntas sho-! that with few exceptions most of them have a
positive financial result. Information concerning the financial performance of
the Juntas in the period 1990-91 is included in the Project file.  Tariffs



charged to users by their Juntas fully cover: (a) operation and maintenance of
the wat ir systems, (b) debt service -o SENASA and, (c' contribution to the fund
for replacement of equipment. The accounting system of the Tuntas is adequate.
Eac't new Junta is required by SENASA to implement an accurate accounting system
based on guidelines prepared by SENASA. Since new beneficiaries have never had
water systems, lack of experience requires training for the implementetion of the
accounting systems. SENASA has the capability to train the new Ju.tas in the
installation of their accounting system, but it needs strengthening to enable it
to set up a program to expand training and to establish monitorirg systems.
C.   Sec -r Investments
1.16      The sector depends largely on the Central Gove -'.uent budget for
financial support of capital investments and to somr extent operational costs
(mostly grants).  IDB has been financing water and sewerage programs for tho
urban population since the 1960s. In 1988, CORPOSANA received a loan from the
IDB for US$47.8 million and US$20.4 million equivalent from the French Government
to implement a US$75.8 million project. The projecc is part of the first stage
for the Water Supply System of Greater Asuncion and aims at increasing the
present coverage of water services from 58% to 71% of the estimated 1997
population. The project also includes two technical cooperation activities, one
designed to strengthen CORPOSANA's functional structures and thereafter for a
study by STP of the country water aird sanitation sector.  The Bank has been
supporting the rural water and sanitation programs through SENASA since 1977.
Other participating agencies include: USAID and Eximbank from the USA, KFW and
GTZ, from the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Nations Children's Fund
(UNICEF), the bi-national Itaipu, and bilaterally the British, French, and
Japanese Governments.
1.17      SENAS^. has limited its ability to expand services to the rural
population due to low-level funding (annual investments over the last 15 years
were on the order of US$1.5 million) and because of the effects of substantial
subsidies through on-lending at below-market interest rates. Community water
supply and sanitation systems typically have been financed by proceeds of Bank
loans, complemented by SENASA's budget resoarces and community contribution.
SENASA requires rural communities to provide 100% of operating and malitenance
costs and no less than a 10% initial contribution to investments (part in cash
and the remainder in labo)r and materials) as well as debt service on a minimum
of 10X of investment costs.   Historically,  the Government's annual sector
investment levels have been around US$12 million.   The Bank technical study
estimates that to improve wc- ,r and sewerage coverage to acceptable levels in
Paraguay, annual investments ;.n the order of US$35 million would be needed in the
next 15 years. Service improvements include new works as well as rehabilitation,
traintrng and institutional development. Thus, financial needs are about three
times historic investment ' vels.
D.   Previous Bank Experience
1.18      The Bank has helped SENASA in the execution of water and sanitation
programs for the rural population, through loans: 1502-PA for US$6.0 million in



- 6 -
1977, and 2014-PA for US$ 11.8 million in 1981, which were completed in 1983 and
1990, respectively.   In the early. 1970sg water and sanitation services  in
Paraguay were very low. Oniy Asunciln and a few other cities had public water
and sanitation services. A worse situation was found in the rural areas, where
on. about 10 rural communities had adequate water services.  The main objective
of Loan 1502-PA wse to support the development of an adequate institutional
capacity and to increase community participation. At project completion in 1985
(three years after the appraisal estimate),  expectations were exceedet: a
population of 82,000 people in 47 rural communities enjoyed safe water supply and
about 10,000 benefitted from sanita:ion facilities. The most important outcome
of the project was its impact on institutional development, community
participation, and operational maintenance practices. Loan 2014-PA was conceived
as a follow-up to Loan 1502-PA to expand services in rural areas and further
strengthen SENASA.  Project works were completed by the end of 1990, five years
behind appraisal estimate, due to macroeconomic and political problems engendered
by the change of Government.   At the end of the project, 51 eyotems were
functioning, serving a total population of about S0,000 people. The Bank has
learned key lessons to be applied in this project including the need to (a)
maintain and increase the participation of the communities in project finiancing;
(b) provide for the repayment of the loans from the Juntas to SER%SA in real
terms in order to create a real revo ving fund for further sector expansion; (e)
build suitable mechanisms to ensure that funds and technology will oe available
to the Juntas for major repairs; and (d)   strengther SENASA for the provision
of adequate and timely support and supervision to the Juntas. A fuller treatment
on previous Bank experience and lessons learned is given in Annex :.
E. Sector Stratetv
1.19      During execution of previous projects, the Bank carried on a constant
dialogue with the Government on policies to be followed for the expansion of the
rural water and sanitation sector. These policies are based on the requirement
to implement sustainable and replicable projects.  The sustainability of the
projects have been fully achieved. All projects financed through Bank loans
(some projects have been in operation since the end of the 1970s) have fully met
their objectives, are under normal operatior., and most of their initial water
systems have been expanded and improved by the communities themselves. Annex I
presents a description of some water systems implemented through the First and
Second Bank Loan. Project sustainability is based on the participation of water
users in all aspects of project implementation and importantly, in the
administration, operation and maintenance of their w.ter system.  Although the
costs of operation and maintenance of the systems are fully met by the users, the
implementation of projects requires capital contribution and external technical
assistance.
1.20      The IDB is financing a study on the water and sanitation sector.  The
study is being executed by international consultants. The study was presented
to the Bank during negotiations, it reviews the water and sanitation sector and
identify the factors restricting its development. Specific proposals would be
formulated for medium- and long-term development and financing of the urban and
rural sector. This strategy would include sector goals and priorities as well



as policies, programs, and actions necessary for sector development. The study
concentrates on the urban subsector, given its very weak cost recovery, high
unaccounted-for water, low coverage of sewerage, and poor administration in all
cities including Asuncion. For the rural subsector, on the other hand, policies
are well defined. The basic requirements are Government support to SENASA and
opportune allocation of financial resources.   Loan conditionalities include
timely Bank discussion with the Government on final study recommendations for the
rural  stibsector and  subsequent plans  for  its expansion.    During project
preparation, the Bank exchanged views with sector authorities, IDB, and the
consultants on thec study. During negotiations, it was agreed that SENASA would
furnish to the Bank for comments by December 31 of each year, beginning December
31, 1993, an annual action program for investments in rural water supply
(para.4.02(a)).
1.21      During project preparation, an intense dialogue has been conducted
with Government authorities on ways to accelerate expansion of rural water
coverage to level.s compatible with the development growth of the country. Also
the results of an affordability study have demonstrated that user financial
participation in project implementation can be increased from 40% to 60%, and
that user loons should be made in real terms and recovered through shorter
maturity periods (para. 2.28). 't was also agreed there was a need to strengthen
SENASA's capacity to promote and provide technical assistance to the communities
and to manage its financial resources by improving cost-recovery of loan
beneficiaries. This would promote the establishment of an effective revolving
fund that, together with user participation, can facilitate sector self-financing
(para. 2.20).
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.01      Government authorities, concerned about the low level of water supply
and sanitation services to the rural populat4on, have given high priority to
increasing rural water supply and accordingly requested Bank assistance for this
purpose. The Bank Country Strategy in Paraguay calls for support programs to
ease an incipient rural-urban transition through the delivery of social services
to the rural areas. The proposed project would be a fo'llow-up operation in the
rural sector of Paraguay, and would build on the policy dialogue initiated
through the financing of the two previous Loans and would establish the basis for
a sustained expansion of the rural water supply sector.
2.02      The proposec project would support an integrated,  community-based
water systems strategy, that has proven to be highly sustainable. As requested
by sector authorities, the project would follow up the Bank's strategy of
community participation and would serve the municipal districts and the largest
and concentrated communities of the rural population after selection criteria are
applied (para. 2.35). A special project component would also establish the basis
for the provision of water and sanitation services through low-cost technologies
to the dispersed rural population and to indigenous settlements of the country.



-        -~-8
B.   Project Objectives
2.03      The main objective of the project is to improve rural productivity and
health, particularly of women and children, by expanding access to potable water
and environmental sanitation facilities.   The project would also develop
replicable models for expanding water and sanitation services to the dispersed
rural communities and indigenous population and to strengthen the institutional
capacity of SENASA to promote this expansion.   The project,  together with
orojects financed under previous Bank loans, along with other smaller programs,
would increase water coverage to about 17% of the projected 1997 rural population
from the present level of 8%. This target was agreed with the Government after
evaluating the implementation capacity of SENASA.   Despite this increase, the
sector coverage target is low. However, it is limited mostly by implementation
capacity and financial requirements. If the proposed project is implemented in
a timely manner, a new Bank follow-on operation could be prepared to strengthen
further sector development. The improvement of health and productivity would be
achieved through the following activities:
(a)  organizing a water sector financing system based on greacer reliance
on self-financing capability of users;
(b)  promoting better hygienic habits and contributing to public health
improvements;
(c) revising policies to accommodate different water service levels based
on community ability to pay and maintain the systems;
(d)  providing safe water and sanitation to about 250,000 people through
house connections and other low cost technologies and improving on-
site exereta disposal systems; and
(e)  strengthening the managerial capability of SENASA and the Juntas for
project implementation and sector development.
C.   Project Description
2.04       The proposed project, to be executed between 1992 and 1997, would
consist of the following components:
(a)  construction of about 170 water supply systems in rural communities
with concentrated populations (more than 80 inhabitants per hectare).
The systems would provide chlorinated water through house connections
and public standposts to about 230,000 inhabitants;
(b)  provision and improvement of on-site sanitation systems to about
250,000 inhabitants;
(c)  provision of water supply and sanitation systems to about 20,000
inhabitants  of  the  dispersed  rural  population  and  indigenous
settlements through low-cost, appropriate technologies;
(d)  technical assistance consisting of consulting services of experts to
assist and train SEWASA personnel in: project implementation,



- 9 -
financial management, educational and promotional program to encourage
community participation, and execution of special studies.
(e)  institutional improvements for O&M including acquisition of well
drilling equipment and spare parts for existing equipment, tools for
the central and regional repair shops, and vehicles for project
implementation and supervision. This component includes improvement
of office facilities and equipment (computers, printers, communication
systems, audiovisual equipment, etc.)
D.   Cost Estimates
2.05      The  total  cost  of  the  project,  including  physical  and  price
contingencies, is estimated at US$36.3 million equivalent, of which US$23.0
million (63Z) represents the foreign exchange component.   The project cost
includest (a) 62 of the construction cost for engineering and administrative
expenses related to the project; (b) 72 of the base cost for physical
contingencies; and (c) 14.82 of the February 1992 project cost for price
escalation.   Price contingency and foreign exchange conversions have been
calculated in accordance with Bank Guidelines, using World Bank estimates of
Januavy 1992. Foreign inflation rates are estimated at: 2.82 in 1992, 3.9% in
1993, 3.92 in 1994, and 3.82 from 1995 through 1997. Detailed project costs are
presented in Annex 2 and a summary is presented in table 2.1.
2.06      Cost estimates are based on unit costs of recent contracts for similar
civil works and equipment. The estimates have been based on preliminary and in
some cases final designs, and generally on the market costs of recent similar
works recently carried out in Asuncion and other departments on the eastern side
of the country. SENASA applied these costs, in February 1992 prices, to average
sample communities.   The mission found the approach satisfactory and the
estimates reliable.
2.07      About 50 man-months of consulting services are included for the
technical assistance to SENASA (an average of about US$7,000 per man-month).
Completion of final engineering designs and construction supervision will require
an additional 40 man-months.  The average man-month cost represents the rate
billed by individuals and includes: salaries, social costs, travel, and housing.
Consultants for technical assistance to SENASA are expected to be foreign and
local, while those for completion of final designs and construction supervision
are expected to be local. PAHO through international consultants is assisting
SENASA in the preparation of the project and initiation of the proposed Technical
Assistance Program (para. 2.31).  The project also includes about 20 man-months
of consulting services to conduct studies to assimilate experiences obtained
during execution of the project into the preparation of a future similar project.



- 10 -
Table 2.1: TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
DESCRIPTION               USS miltions             G/.Miltions         %
Local  Foreign  TotaL    Locat  Foreign  Total
Construction Works
(a) Water Systems to 170 communities  7.96  12.20    20.16  11542  17690   29232  68
(b) Sanitation to 250,000 inhabitants 0.70   1.80  2.50  1015  2610    3625      8
(c) Water to Dispersed Population    0.78   1.21  1.98    1124  1747    2871     7
(e) Equipment, Parts and Vehicles    0.17   1.85  2.02    239  2683    2922      7
Total Construction Cost       9.60  17.06    26.66       13920  24730   38650    90
Engineering and Administration  0.74   1.16    1.89       1067  1675    2741     6
Technical Assistance Program  0.30   0.95     1.25        435  1378    1813      4
TotaL Base Costs              10.64  19.16    29.80      15422  27782   43204    100
Physical Contingencies         0.81   1.27    2.08       1173  1847    3020
Price Contingencies            1.63   2.78    4.41       2366  4028    6395
TOTAL PROJECT COST            13.08  23.21    36.29      18962  33657   52619
percent           36    64        100
E. Financing Plan
2.08       The total cost of the project is US$36.3 million equivalent.   The
proposed Bank loan of US$23.0 million equivalent would finance about 64% of the
project  costs,  representing  the  foreign  exchange  requirements.             User
contributions would amount to US$9.0 million, and SENASA would participate with
US$4.3 million. The consolidated project financing plan is presented in Table
2.2 and a detailed cost estimate is given in Annex 2.
Table 2.2: Proiect Financina Plan
Local      Foreign   Total       X
-------- (US$ million)-----------
Bank                   --        23.0       23.0       63
Users                  9.0        --         9.0       25
SENASA                 4.3        --         4.3       12
TOTAL                 13.3       23.0       36.3      100
2.09       SENASA will provide financing in the amount of US$4.3 million during
the six-year project execution. This amount should be included in the normal
budgetary allocation provided to SENASA by the Government. The Government of
Paraguay agreed to make budgetary allocations to cover a minimum of US$4.3
million needed for project execution from 1992 to 1998 (para. 4.01).
2.10       SENASA would receive from the Government (the Borrower) the proceeds
of the Bank's loan as a grant. Part of these funds would be lent to the Juntas,
and the remainder would be provided as grants (para. 2.28). Recovery of these
Loans from the Juntas will be placed in a Revolving Fund for sector expansion
(para. 2.20). The financial forecast for the period 1992-98 shows that SENASA's
financial performance is expected to be satisfactory during that period, assuming



- 11 -
that: (a) the Government will provide the resources in a timely fashion; (b) the
Juntas will contribute about US$9.0 million to the project; (c) SENASA loans to
the Juntas bear a real interest rate and collections are timely; and (d) SENASA
will maintain its revolving fund liquids assets in an interest-bearing account.
F.   Executing Aeencv and Beneficiaries
2.11      The Borrower would be the Government of the Republic of Paraguay,
which is also the Borrower in the previous two Bank-financed rural water supply
projects.
2.12      As in previous Loans, SENASA will be the Executing Agency.  However,
during project preparation, extensive discussions were held with sector
authorities on the need to strengthen this agency to carry out a program this
size. The first steps toward the restructuring of SENASA were taken in mid-1991,
when a separate Directorate of Water and Sanitation was created. Staff of this
Directorate were relocated to a facility in San Lorenzo, on the outskirts of
Asuncion. This has provided the beginning of a distinct water and sanitation
entity as well as much needed office space for all staff.   Besides the new
Directorate of Water and Sanitation, SENASA has created two other Directorates,
one for Environmental Health and the other for Administration.
2.13      The Water and Sanitation Directorate has recently adopted a new
organizational structure whose main objectives are to: formalize the delegation
of responsibility for water and sanitation within SENASA to a Director;
streamline the operation of the headquarters staff; and improve the effectiveness
of the field staff by clarifying their functions and relations with headquarters.
The organizational structure of SENASA and functions of its key personnel are
shown in Annex 3.
2.14      To improve SENASA's capacity to provide support to the Juntas, all
activities involving ongoing field work will be placed within one new Operations
Department. This department will, through direct management of the field staff,
handle all phases  of  support  to  the Juntas,  including promotion,  Junta
organization,  system construction,  training of employees,  establishment of
financial administration systems, and operation and maintenance.  This structure
will improve management by creating a single line of authority between the
central office and the field staff. The Operations Department will include a
unit responsible for coordinating all training activities and for overseeing the
social promotion and health education programs related to water and sanitation.
These functions are placed in operations because they also involve dealing with
the Juntas and their members on an ongoing basis. In addition, the Operations
Department will contain a new division, Financial Management of Juntas. This
division will be responsible for providing technical support to the Juntas in
preparing financial statements, setting contributions and tariffs, billing and
collection, and managing their repair funds (fondos de reposicion de equipos).
The Division will also collect and consolidate the Juntas' annual financial
statements and perform annual audits on the Juntas included in the Project and
selective audits on Juntas included in previous Bank loans. The Division will
channel summarized Junta financial data to the Administration Department for
preparation of the Directorate's financial accounts.



- 12 -
2.15      New Technical, Construction and Water Resources Departments will be
created to take responsibility for specific and time-bound functions: Studies
and Designs, Water Resources (evaluation of sources and well drilling), and
Technical Assistance (construction supervision and operation and maintenance
support).   The field work of these units will be coordinated through the
Operations Department. A new Planning and Monitoring Office (not a division),
attached to the office of the Director, will be established to ensure that short-
and long-term work plans (including financial projections) are prepared for the
entire Directorate, that budgets are prepared and approved to support the work
plans, that disbursement requests are made to the Administration Office in an
orderly and timely manner, and that the progress of the entire Directorate's
program is monitored.
2.16      Administrative functions for the Water and Sanitation Directorate
(accounting, disbursements, logistics, inventory control, and bidding and
contracting) will initially be handled by the main Administration Directorate of
SENASA. However, a "branch office" of the central Administration Directorate
will be established at the San Lorenzo facility to facilitate management of the
water and sanitation operation.   This office will need to be staffed and
equipped. It is expected that this Administration Office will, over time, become
a semi-autonomous unit to undertake those functions.
2.17      At the field level, SENASA has already established a system of
Supervisors in each of the 15 Regions into which the Ministry of Health's
operations are divided.  Each Supervisor has between 6 and 14 Inspectors and
Assistants under his control, depending on the area and population of the Region.
During negotiations, SENASA agreed on maintaining the previously described
organization and descriptions of functions. Agreements were also reached on a
minimum number of personnel at the the Water and Sanitation Directorate, as well
as on a time-bound action program for meeting the rest of the personnel
requirements  for project  execution.    The new organization  and personnel
requirements will be reassigned from other positions within SENASA and will not
increase its present total personnel.
2.18      Financial  Performance.       SENASA's  administrative  and  operating
expenses and investment requirements in water supply and sanitation in rural
areas are financed by the Government's ordinary budget. SENASA's annual budget
is submitted to the Ministry of Public Health for consideration.  After the
budget has been reviewed and discussed with SENASA, it is included in the
Ministry's general budget and is 3ubmitted to the Budget Dspartment of the
Ministry of Finance for final approval and presentation to the Parliament. When
supplementary resources are: needed for an unbudgeted program, the authorization
of the Minister of Finance is required.
2.19      SENASA's financial performance during the period 1987-91 has been
adequate. It has been able to finance its current operation and its construction
program without financial difficulty out of the Government's contribution and
proceeds from the Bank and grants from KfW and other foreign and local entities.
The budget grew at a rate slightly over inflation in the period 1987-89, except
in 1990 when there was a decrease in nominal and real terms. But the budget for
1991 was approximately 21% hi-her in real terms than the one for 1990 due to
increases in salaries, which then were extremely low and are now at appropriate



- 13 -
levels. However, the construction program has decreased substantially during
1990 and 1991.
2.20      Revolving Fund   SENASA, through previous Bank Loans, has made loans
at subsidized interest rates and long repayment periods to about 100 communities,
some of which have not been able to keep their debt service current with SENASA.
SENASA has had little incentive to press these Juntas to service their debts due
to Government requirement to deposit these repayments at the Central Bank of
Paraguay in a non-earning account and a lengthy process for obtaining approval
for its use, and because of the small value of these deposits. Discussions were
held with SENASA on the need to renegotiate new loan conditions with the Junta$
including in.entives for prepayment, to accelerate recovery of previous loans and
channel those resources to the Revolving Fund.  This would also decrease the
paper work associated with the collection task and would allow SENASA to use its
staff more productively.   Agreements were reached that SENASA prepares and
presents to the Bank not later than March 31, 1993 a satisfactory plan to settle
all Junta arrears (either improving collection, renegotiating or write-off) and
starts implementing it thereafter (para. 4.02(c)).
2.21   Since loans to the Juntas in the proposed project would be made in real
terms, debt service payments for these loans will strengthen the Revolving Fund.
Agreements were reached that: (a) based on the recommendations of the study
referred to below, SENASA would manage its own financial resources, including the
recuperation of their loans and to establish a specific interest-bearing account
at a commercial Bank to administer a Revolving Fund to expand services to other
rural communities (para. 4.01 (b), and (b) the terms of reference for the study
on the regulations and procedures of the Revolving Fund, which also review the
possibility of establishing, the Revolving Fund in each Junta, will be those
described in Annex 12, and (c) It war agreed that the result of the study would
be presented not later than March 31, 1993, and its recommendations implemented
not later than May 31, 1993 (para. 4.02(d).
2.22      Accounting and Auditing   SENASA has developed a standard accounting
system to record its operations, producing yearly balance sheets as well as
income and cash-flow statements. The system also permits SENASA to keep project
accounts separate from its other accounts. Because agreement has been reached
to separate water and sanitation (Water Directorate) from other SENASA
activities, it would be necessary to establish a new chart of accounts and
accounting procedures. Therefore, the project aims to continue to assist SENASA
in the implementation of the new accounting system and to train accountants and
bookkeepers.   SENASA is audited by two different Government entities.   The
auditors of the Ninistry of Health carries out periodic internal auditing during
the year. The General Controllers Office carries out an annual audit and report
its findings to the Minister of Health. In compliance with previous loans, an
independent external auditor prepares an audit bai.ed on generally accepted
accounting principles and sends the reports to the Minister of Public Health.
The independent auditing is performed on accounts dated as of December 31 of each
year. Audit reports are satisfactory. SENASA has furnished the Bank the audit
report for 1989 prepared by the external auditor, Fretes Ventre y Asociados,
which has been the external auditor since 1983. This same auditor is preparing
audit reports for 1990 and 1991. The audit firm appears to be satisfactory.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SENASA will continue to have



- 14 -
its accounts, including the Special Account (para. 2.48), audited each year by
external auditors acceptable to the Bank and submit a report on the results of
the audit to the Bank not later than April 30 of each year for the preceding year
(para. 4.02(e).
2.23      The beneficiaries of the Loan would be the Local Sanitation Committees
or Juntas of the rural communities (para. 1.15), which are created after the
community has decided zo have a water system and as a condition for signing the
contract with SENASA (Annex 7). The Juntas have legal status conferred on them
by the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare. Their 5- to 9-member Board
of Directors is elected by public vote and consists of a chairman, Vice Chairman,
Secretary and Treasurer, and from l to 5 other voting members.   The Juntas
currently finance a substantial proportion of rural water supply capital costs,
and are responsible for management of their water systems and all operation and
maintenance costs. This reflects a high demonstrated ability and willingness to
pay for water. Beneficiaries of previous Bank programs presently fully cover the
cost of operations and maintenance of the systems and have contributed to the
capital costs in two forms: (a) between 10% or 15% of the capital costs during
construction of the systems, and (b) i:hrough a loan for 20% or 30% of the capital
costs, repaid in soft terms.
2.24      The accounting system of the Juntas is adequate.  Each new Junta is
required by SENASA to implement an accurate accounting system based on guidelines
prepared by SENASA. Since new beneficiaries have never had water systems, lack
of experience requires training for the implementation of the accounting system.
SENASA 'has the capability to train the new Juntas in the installation of their
accounting system, but it needs strengthening to enable it to set up a program
to expand training and to establish monitoring systems.
2.25      To increase the financial participation of the communities in meeting
project costs, an affordability study was conducted during project preparation.
Information obtained from 13 rural communities to be included in the proposed
project demonstrates that it is possible to increase users participation in the
financing of the project.   The results of the socioeconomic survey for the
affordability study are presented in Annex 5.
2.26      During the study, information was obtained on family income levels and
current expenses to obtain water and electricity service.  Also, engineering
studies and final designs and costs were completed for the proposed water systems
in each of the communities studied. Community participation in the capital costs
of the project assumed: (a) 30% during project execution and (b) 30% as a loan
to be paid between 5 and 10 years at real interest terms. The study concludes
that monthly tariffs covering the sum of: 100% of the operating and maintenance
costs, plus contribution to a fund for replacement of equipment and amortization
of the loan, represents between 2.2Z to 9.2% of a family income. During the
study, it was observed that the per capita investment cost was high due to high
engineering design parameters, which are now under revision, and which should
lower the costs. A frequently used rule-of-thumb establishes that a rural near-
subsistence family should not spend more than 5 percent of its income for water.
Under this assumption, some of the communities will have a higher than desirable
financial participation in their water systems. However, since most users are
presently paying to water vendors about 3 to 5 times what they would have to pay



- 15 -
*r the proposed system, and families are paying 2 to 3 times as much for
electricity, no difficulties are expected regarding the proposed payment levels
for water.
2.27      The total investment for the water systems and sanitation would be
financed by the sum of the following:   (a) a total of 60Z by the Juntas (a
contribution of 30% during the execution of the project and an additional 30%
through a loan from SENASA); and (b) a 40% grant or government contribution. As
a result of the affordability study, it has been agreed that communities will
make contributions to the project as follows: (a) 15% as cash contribution before
initiation of works; (b) another 15% in the form of labor, materials, land
acquisition, cash contributions or a mixture of them during the execution of the
works; and (c) through a loan from SENASA equivalent to 30% of the project cost
to be paid in real terms.  However, if a community is unable to afford such
payment requirements, they can be lowered by reducing service levels by providing
fewer house connections, and building more water standposts. If after reducing
service levels the system is still not affordable, an economic justification
based in the community limited fi)ancial capacity for payment as well as a social
justification would be presented to rationalize a reduction of user
contributions. Contributions should be within a range of 40% to 60% of projects
cost.
2.28      SENASA would finance the cost of construction of the water and
sanitation services out of the proceeds of the Bank loan, as well as with the
community contribution and their own contribution. SENASA will enter into a sub-
loan agreement with each community, specifying the amount and terms of the SENASA
loan, and the total community participation, including cash payments. The Juntas
would repay the loan in equal monthly installments over 5 to 10 years, with
interest at market rates. During negotiations, it was agreed that SENASA will
apply the rate published monthly by the Central Bank of Paraguay for commercial
loans on guarani denominated subloans minus six percentage points (para.
4.02(f)). The interest rates to be applied by SENASA in its subloans is the
average rate charged by commercial banks to private customers, published monthly
by the Central Bank of Paraguay, minus a spread of six points. At present, the
rate proposed by the Government would be 22 percent, significantly above the rate
of inflation. Agreements were also reached that SENASA will review on September
30 of each year starting 1993 the experience in repayment under the subloans and
adopt necessary measures, especially in the event of an increase in the rate of
inflation and interest rates. Payments of the loans would be made after a grace
period equal to the construction period plus 3 months. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk given the social orientation of the project.
G. Implementation
2.29      The project would be executed during 1992-98.   This schedule is
compatible with SENASA's execution capabilities strengthen by an improved
organization and additional manpower and by a proposed technical assistance
program (para. 2.33). Hydrogeological studies and project designs, as well as
equipment and materials for project execution, will use standards and
specifications developed under the previous projects. Water resources do not



- 16 -
limit the provision of water services in the communi$ies.  Experience under
previoue Loans has shown that aquifers are frequently within a depth of 100 to
200 meters in sandstone. Water quality is good and the only treatment necessary
would be chlorination. The project contains retroactive financing as of November
1991, up to US$1.0 million for project implementation. The project is expected
to be completed by December 31, 1997.
2.30      SENASA has advanced the preliminary studies required for project
execut'.on by more than 50%, including socioeconomic surveys for 220 communities
and engineering final designs for about 90 communities, water sources have been
also defined in about 24 water systems.   Population range of communities
benefitting from the project is given in Table 2.3.  A list of communities
selected to benefit from the project is presented In Annex 6.  SENASA will
continue using its own personnel and outside consultants to carry out the Purveys
in sitU and obtain the necessary information, and would use its own staff to
complete the final designs. SENASA's strategy for the implementation of water
projects has been very successful and has been used during the implementation of
the previous Bank projects. It consists of nine steps starting with the promotion
and education of the communities through start-up and operation the systems.
AnnGx 7 describes the stages involved in the implementation of the project.
Table 2.3: Population Range of communities
--   opulation Rancse    Numbar of CommUatitES-
300 - 1,000                               74
1,001 - 2,000                               57
2,001 - 3,000                               22
3,001 - 4,000                               17
Total                  170
2.31      Under the previous Bank projects,  SENASA has applied a standard
technological model for water supply consisting of a deep-drilled borehole fitted
with an electric submersible pump, an elevated storage tank, and a distribution
network serving individual house connections. It is recognized that this system
is too expensive for use in the small rural settlements. The fixed costs are too
high to be recovered from small number of beneficiaries, who typically tend to
have lower capacity to pay than the larger rural communities. Another major
limitation is that the standard model is feasible only in communities that have
electricity.   Because very little work has been done by SENASA in small
communities, this component will be of a pilot nature with demonstration projects
to be implemented in two departments, during which the technological options will
be developed. Based on the results of these activities, the Program would be
expanded to other Departments. A detailed description of the program for small
communities is presented in Annex 8.



- 17 -
2.32      As a result of the promotional activities of SENASA, the Juntas are
created and will be fully responsible for their water systems on an ongoing
basis.  Experience has demonstrated the need to train the members of the new
Juntas and administrative personnel and to promote the exchange of experiences
among other Juntas. Therefore, a training program has been proposed to teach
managerial and technical skills to the Juntas through: (a) training courses at
the village level in the operation and maintenance of water aystems; (b) specific
technical assistance programs for each Junta to teach basic accounting principles
and bookkeeping; and (c) assistance in the formulation and implementation of
tariff structures that would guarantee the financial viability of each Junta.
This training program is included in the proposed technical assistance program.
The project thus will provide part-time consultants to train SENASA personnel who
will then organize and implement an adequate accounting system in each
beneficiary community.
2.33      To strengthen SENASA's capabilities to carry out the proposed project,
a strong Technical Assistance Program (TAP) was agreed. The TAP would consist
of long- and short-term experts assisting SENASA in managerial, technical, and
financial aspects of project execution. An intensive training program also would
be provided by TAP. The program would provide training to all levels of SENASA's
personnel in financial, technical, and social promotion aspects. There would be
a specific training program for fiald workers, including special study programs
in other countries. Through TAP, training would be provided to the administrators
of the Juntas. There will be a special program in which members of the Juntas
and their administrators would nave the opportunity to visit and learn from
successful Juntas.   TAP will also provide information to water users 4n the
communities on the appropriate use of water and in water conservation. The TAP
is described in detail in Annex 9. Due to the importance of the proposed TAP,
SENASA has approached the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) and UNDP to
assist and participate in the Technical Assistance Program.  PAHO has in the
previous Bank financed loans provided similar technical assistance to SENASA to
their satisfaction and a good working relationship exists. PAHO, a specialized
UN agency for Sanitary Engineering,  has the advantage of having experienced
professionals in the sector not widely available in the region and has the
facility to recruit specialists quickly from other, similar programs. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that SENASA will execute the proposed time-
bound program for the TAP described in the Attachment of Annex 9, and that
SENASA and the Bank will jointly evaluate progress in the execution of the TAP
in September 1993, and make the necessary adjustments (para. 4.02(g)).
2.34      The Technical Assistance Program would include:
(a)  services of long- and short-term local consultants for a total of 120
person months to provide advice, conduct training and special studies;
(b)  courses and seminars, including a special training-program in other
countries for various levels of SENASA field personnel, sanitary
inspectors, administrators and technicians from the Juntas, and SENASA
staff, in the administrative and financial areas;
(c) training program to Junta members and Junta administrators through
twinning arrangements with existing successful Juntas;



- 18 -
(d) specific equipment and instruments for training and communications;
and
(e) specific studies will also be conducted for the development of the
revolving fund in order to establish its procedures and regulations
and for the preparation of a future project for the expansion of the
rural water and sanitation sector.
2.35      Selection Criteria.   Priority will be given to those communities that
expressed to SENASA the desire to obtain water supply and exereta disposal
systems, and have demonstrated the willingness and ability of the community to
contribute to the construction costs. Because the list of communities given in
Annex 6 is preliminary, it is possible that some might not comply with the
selection criteria. In this case, the communities would be replaced by others
that meet the criteria.  Selection criteria will be applied for sub-projects
included in the concentrated communities. Assurances were obtained from SENASA
during negotiations that the selection criteria described below will be applied
to all subprojects to be financed under the Loan (para. 4.02 (h)):
(a) a Junta (para. 2.22) must be set up in each community to: (i)
participate in the planning and construction of the system; (ii) to
take responsibility for the debt service; and (iii) to be in charge
of the administration, operation, and maintenance of the system;
(b) hydrogeologic studies demonstrating the possibility of developing
reliable sources of water must have been completed; and
(c)  subprojects must have a per capita construction cost of less than
US$110 in April 1992 prices.
2.36      Criteria  foK  Proiect  Develooment.         Hydrogeological  studies,
demonstrating the feasibility of developing viable sources of water easily and
economically, must have been completed before the construction of the water
systems. Water projects would have a per capita construction cost of less than
US$110 in April 1992 prices. Water services in the project communities would be
provided to 80% of the population through house connections and to 20% through
public  standpipes.    These  standards  are  in accordance  with  the  habits,
expectations, and ability to pay of the population.   It is not economically
feasible to extend service by house connections to all of the population, as many
people are scattered on the outskirts of the communities. Thus, water services
would be supplied through house connections in areas with more than five houses
per 100 m of street length and through public standpipes to be located at less
than 200 m from the dwellings in areas with a density of less than five houses
per 100 m.  Water systems would be properly designed to suit the least-cost
solution. The following engineering approach will be used in project design: (a)
design period: 10 years with exception of the wells, which could be designed for
20 years; (b) daily per capita demand of 80 liters; (c) daily and hourly peak
demand factors of 1.1 and 1.3, respectively; (d) storage tank capacit- equal to
1/6 of the daily average water demand; and (e) water pressure not greater than
6 meters head in the lowest point of the water network.



- 19 -
2.37      Contracts.   Each contract between SENASA and the beneficiary Juntas
would include the specific conditions described below. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the following conditions would have bJen met for
subproject financing prior to the initiation of work or provision of equipment
and materials to the commun3ties (para. 4.02(i)).
(a) Sanitary Committee or Junta: each Junta should be duly recognized as
e legal entity;
(b)  Proiect  Description:    each  agreement  will  include  a  detailed
description of each project component, and of its quantities and
costs; the contract will also list all project plans and documents;
(c) User's Contribution: total community contribution to the construction
cost of the water project should be specified and equivalent to not
less than 60%, unless the Bank otherwise agrees. SENASA will cause
each committee to agree to: (i) a cash down payment of 15% as a
condition for initiating the works; (ii) provide cash, labor,
equipment,  materials, land acquisition, or a combination of them,
equivalent to 15% of project costs; and (iii) a loan from SENASA to
be paid back in not more than 10 years at market interest rates.
(d) Revenue Covenant: each Junta will set tariffs and other charges for
water service at a level sufficient to obtain enough revenues to
cover: (i) normal operation and routine maintenance of the water
system; (ii) an amount for replacement and major repairs, to be
determined by agreement between SENASA and the community; and (iii)
debt service to cover the loan from SENASA to the community.
2.38      Tariff  Structure.       The tariff  levels  would be  based  on  the
communities' ability to pay, as determined by the socio-economic studies prepared
by SENASA (paras. 2.25), and on tne level of total revenues as covenanted.
Tariffs would be revised periodically (usually yearly) by the Juntas, with the
assistance of SENASA. To keep tariffs in line with requirements for funds, the
rates are fixed at a basic amount for a house connection. The Juntas also charge
new customers a fee for access to the service. They also levy charges to cover
materials and labor costs for connections to the system. These fees vary from
one community to another, but SENASA ensures that their level does not prevent
low-income people from being connected to the system.
2.39      The Juntas are responsible for billing and collecting water service
charges. In the case of standpipes, collections would be the responsibility of
a subcommittee of users. Where standpipes are installed in the courtyard of a
house, the owner of the house would keep a list of users and collect the money
periodically.  Experience shows that where water systems are in satisfactory
operation, the overdue accounts are negligible. This is basically because of the
high level of community participation and cooperation resulting from SENASA's
educational and promotional programs.   The system of setting and reviewing
tariffs is considered satisfactory. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
(para 4.02(j)) that: (a) the system will be continued unless SENASA and the Bank
otherwise agree; (b) SENASA and the communities will review the tariff levels at



- 20 -
least once a year; and (c) SENASA will cause the Juntas to take all necessary
measures to produce revenues suffieient to meet the revenue covenant.
2.40      Financial   projections   for   1992-97   have   been  prepared   for
representative villages. The basic information on expected revenues and costs
was taken from the financial statements most recently sent to SENASA by the
Juntas of the first and second Bank-financed projects in the sector.   The
projections and basic assumptionu are included in project file. After the Juntas
repay the loan to SENASA they should be able to finance other investments (e.g.
extension and system improvements) from their operating incomes. The financial
position of the Juntas would be satisfactory.   They would be able to cover
operation and maintenance, debt-service requirements, working capital, and have
a reserve for the replacement of equipment. Because of the small size of the
operation in each community, annual external audits will not be required.
Assurances were obtained from SENASA that specialized personnel from SENASA's
division of finance management of Juntas would audit the accounts of each Junta
once a year (para. 4.02(k)). The technical assistance program would include the
creation of a procedure for the audit of the project accounts of the Junta's
beneficiaries.
H. Procurement
2.41      Procurement for civil works, goods, and services would be done in
accordance with Bank guidelines, using standard bidding documents based on Bank
models. A partial Country Procurement Assessment Report was carried out in
January i992. Its main findings were that although there are several points of
conflict between local law and the Bank's procurement procedures, Government
Authorities fully recognize that Bank Loan Agreements supersede local law and
that no major procurement issues in the future are foreseen.   However, the
following provisions would be included in the loan agreement to ensure compliance
with Bank procurement policies: (a) foreign firms should not be obliged to enter
into joint ventures with local firms for carrying out civil works, supply and
erection of electromechanical equipment and consulting services, (b) application
of Bank criteria of "lowest evaluated bidder" should be made for bid evaluation,
(c) no prior registration of bidders should be required, (d) price adjustments
for equipment should be allowed not only when these changes have increased by 15%
or less, (e) selection of consultants should not be treated in the same manner
as when contracting civil works contractors, (f) a minimum of bidders should not
be required, (g) bidders should not be required to legalize bid documents with
consulates as a prerequisite for bidding, (h) uee of local personnel should not
be imposed on foreign contractors, except for unakilled labor, and (i) foreign
consultants shall be selected from those included in a short list on the basis
of an evaluation criteria and terms of reference.
2.42      In the context of this project, SENASA  as executing agency for the
past two Bank loans is well experienced with procurement procedures under Bank
guidelines.   The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and
technical assistance would be consistent with the August 1981 Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers. SENASA as a condition of Loan
effectiveness (para. 4.03(a)) will present to the Bank standard bidding documents
and procedures, as well as a procurement schedule for calendar years 1992 and



- 21 -
1993, including the size and number of civil works packages. Also, starting in
1993 and as long as goods and works remain to be procured, agreements were
reached that procurement schedules should be presented not later than December
31 of each year for the following year (para. 4.02(1)). Project cost breakdowns
by procurement type are summarized in table 2.4.
2.43      Since a necessary condition for the success of rural projects is
community participation in the form of labor, materials, transportation, land
acquisition, cash contribution, etc., part of the civil works will be executed
by small local contractors combined with voluntary community work and force
account r wthods.  A typical wacer system would be executed as follows: (a) well
drilling will be carried out by SENASA with own equlpment and personnel; (b) pump
equipment and electrlcal works will be installed by contractors; (c) storage tank
and pumping house by contractors; (d) water distribution network and house
connections by voluntary work under the direction of SENASA's personnel.
Materials and equipments for the above tasks will be procured by SENASA. SENASA
personnel have worked on simllar tasks under past projects. Because the number
of v'ells to be drilled under the project is large, the possibillty of using
private drilling companies will be considered as well.
Table 2.4 PROCUREMENT COST BY PROCUREMENT METHOD
(In US$ Millions)
CATEGORY                         ICa          LCB        OTPER       NBFZ/          TOTAL
Civil Works                                    5.5                       13.3         18.8
l _____________________________               (5.5)i/                    (0.0)        (5.5)
Equipment, Parts, Materials      12.7          2.6          0.6                       15.9
and Vehlcles                     (12.7)       (2.6)        (0.6)1/                   (15.9)
Studies and Technical                                       1.6                        1.6
Assistance                                                 (1.6)4/                    (1.6)
TOTAL                            12.7          8.1          2.2          13.3         36.3
(12.7)       (8.1)        (2.2)         (0.0)       (23.0)
FJ Pigures in parenthesis are the amounts estimated to be financed by the Bank
L/ NBF: Nor, Bank Financed; includes the costs of voluntary work by users and force account
l/ Local shopping procedures
i/ Consultants and training
2.44      Civil Works.  It is expected that water systems consisting of a deep
well, pumping house, water storage tank and distribution system and household
latrines would be built in more than 200 rural communities.   Because of the
simplicity of the works and scattered locations, procurement of these works
through international competitive bidding procedures (ICB) would not be suitable.
Contract values are expected to range between USS200,000 to USS1.0 million.
Therefore, local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank,
would be used when construction, expansLon, and refurbishlng can be grouped in
contracts to cost more than US$30,000.  As much as possible, construction of
water systems located in the same regional areas would be grouped in packages to



- 22 -
minimize administrative costs and to take advantage of the contractor's economy
of scale. Materials and tools for water systems and latrines would be purchased
in bulk. Minor works costing US$30,000 or less and up to an aggregate of US$0.5
million, would be contracted on the basis of price quotations obtained from at
least three qualified firms.   In the event that packaging civil works would
result in a bid package value exceeding US$2.0 million, it would be procured
on the basis of ICB.
2 i5      Goods.    Goods will be bulked to the extent feasible in packages
estimated to cost above US$100,000, including drilling equipment and water pump
equipment, would be procured through ICB.   Equipment valued at more than
US$25,000 but not more than US$100,000 would be procured through LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate value of US$2.6 million. Contracts
for goods valued at US$25,000 or less and not exceeding US$600,000 in aggregate,
would be awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three eligible suppliers. Under ICB, local manufacturers would be granted
a margin of preference for purposes of bid evaluation, in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
2.46      Prior Review.    Bidding documents, bid evaluations and contracts
awarded through ICB would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The Bank would
also review procurement documentation for work contracts under LCB valued
US$200,00 or above. Ex-post review would be carried out during supervision on
selective basis, for all other contracts. The proposed prior-review levels cover
about 50 percent of items subject to Bank financing.
S. Disbursement
2.47      Given the nature of the works and the modality of project execution,
Bank disbursements will be made against specific project components which
excludes those executed through force account and voluntary work. The proceeds
of the loan would be disbursed during a six year period, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed by the loan reflects 100% financing of expenditures
net of taxes, as follows: (a) 85% of expenditures net of taxes for civil works
contracts for the construction, rehabilitation, and repair of water systems
components; (b) 100% of foreign and local ex-factory expenditures and 80% of
other local expenditures net of taxes for purchase of equipment, materials,
tools, instruments, and vehicles, and (c) 100% of consultant services and
training for the technical assistance program.
2.48      In order to accelerate disbursements, and in order to allow for direct
payment of other eligible local and foreign expenditures for project execution,
a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an authorized
allocation of US$1.0 million equivalent to cover about four months of average
disbursements.  This account would be audited by independed auditors (para.4.02
(d)).  Closing date for disbursements would be June 30, 1998, i.e., six months
after the estimated completion of project execution (December 31, 1997). The
estimated quarterly disbursements are shown in Annex 11.   The disbursement
profile is within SENASA's present capabilities.



- 23 -
2.49      Documentation of ExDpenditures.      For civil works contracts valued
at less than US$200,000 equivalent and for goods contracts valued at less than
US$100,000, disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures
(SOE's). Non-contract expenditures such as training would also be made against
SoE's. Documentation for these expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank,
but would be retained by SENASA for periodic inspection by Bank staff and audit
purposes. All other disbursements would be l.%de against full documentation.
2.50      Assurances  were obtained  during  negotiations  that  prior  to the
initiation of works or provision of equipment and materials in each community,
the concerned Juntas should provide an initial cash down payment of at least 15%
of the construction cost of the water system (para. 4.02(m)).
J.   Monitoring and Evaluation
2.51      SENASA would prepare semi-annual progress reports c;vering physical
progress, costs, disbursements, organization, administrative and financial
aspects, training and other pertinent information, identifying constraints and
proposed remedies and submit these to the Bank every six months. These reports
will include actual and forecast monitoring indicators and execution targets on
the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 10. Progress reports would not
only describe pas. achievements and compare them to appraisal projections, but
also should provide a critical assessment of problems and issues arising during
project execution. In addition to monitoring the physical and financial progress
of implementation, SENASA would be required to ut.dertake periodic impact
evaluations using such indicators as:   incidence of water-borne diseases,
especially affecting children, time saved by women, awareness of health
education, and use of new facilities.
2.52      SENASA and the Bank will conduct a mid-term review of project progress
at the end of 1994.   The mid-term project review will review progress in
implementing the different project components, the affordability of users,
examine criteria for project selection, and assess SENASA organization and
capacity to implement the project. An assessment will be made of SENASA's
financial performance in dealing with recovery of loans, management of accounts,
and auditing and a specific set of financial indicators included in Annex 10 will
monitor: (a) salaries to cash operating expenses; (b) own resources to
construction expenditures; (c) cost subsidy to total cost; (d) loan interest
rates to Juntas; (e) Junta arrears to average balance of loans; (f) average cost
per connection; and (g) SENASA's operating cost per Junta. During the mid-term
review, a review will be made of the criteria established to monitor SENASA's
financial performance. The discussion and analysis of problems identified in the
past would lead to the formulation of adjustments, and, if necessary, plans for
remedial  action  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.    Assurances  were  received  at
negotiations (para. 4.02(n)) that SENASA would: (i) submit progress reports to
the Bank in June and December of each year starting in 1993, which will i.cmide
indicators described in Annex 10; and (ii) conduct a mid-term review of the
project not later than November 30, 1994 and execute to the satisfaction of the
Bank the plan of actions agreed during the mid-term project review. The project



- 24 -
is expected to have average supervision requirements.   A major supervision
mission would be required for the mid-term evaluation.
III. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Proiect Justification
3.01      Rural water supply and sanitation is low and resources to enhance
coverage are limited. This has impaired gains in labor productivity and access
of the low-income rural population to the benefits of economic growth.
Therefore, the project has been designed to alleviate poverty and improve the
quality of rural life, particularly for women, by undertaking environmentally
sound physical investments, and enhancing rural productivity and community-level
resource mobilization in an economically sound and sustainable policy framework.
The project will also provide urgent preventive measures targeted to the rural
population to stem the threat of cholera, which is rapidly spreading in the
Region. The project also aims at continuing to strengthen SENASA's ability to
execute  projects,   effectively  promote   community  participation  during
cons'.ruction, and train the villagers to administer and operate the systems once
they are completed. This aspect of the project is particularly important, as
SENASA is significantly increasing its activities in rural areas and will have
to continue eoing so to successfully meet its sector objectives.
3.02      The  direct  benefits  of  the  project  include  the  provision  of
chlorinated water through house connections and public standpipes to reach about
220,000 inhabitants of 170 rural communities, as well as on-site sanitation. In
addition, 20,000 people of the dispersed rural population and indigenous groups
will receive safe water and excreta disposal systems through low-cost
technologies. Through this component, experience will be gained that will foster
replication in other dispersed rural populations. This project component would
also improve and provide on-site sanitation services to about 20,000 people.
3.03      The target of increasing water services from the present 8% of the
rural population to 17% in 1997 was agreed with sector authorities after
evaluating the implementation capacity of SENASA. Sector authorities would like
to expand services more rapidly and have a larger project. SENASA through the
previous two Bank projects implemented a total of 100 water systems in about 12
years benefitting about 150,000 people. The proposed project would build 170
system in six years, serving about 250,000 people and increasing coveraqe (as
noted) to about 17%. Given the Government support to SENASA to expand services
rapidly to the rural population, plus the strong technical assistance program
built into the proposed project, it is feasible that SENASA would be able to
implement the project in a timely fashion. Given the Government's motivation,
SLi421S,i- Mlight be able to expedite the execution of the proposed project, in which
case another loan could be easily rrepared.
3.04      ImDact on Women.    Providing water for the family is generally the
responsibility of women in Paraguay. Water sources are usually far from the



- 25 -
houses and women have to walk long distances with water containers, often
carrying children at the same time. Wc.,en and children report spending more than
3 person-hours a day collecting water. Improved water supply access and quality
and adequate sanitation would have a positive and direct impact on the quality
of life and productivity of rural women, and, in the case of children, on the
potential to obtain an education. Benefits include time and energy savings and
productivity gains due to health improvements; these have high social and
economic value regardless of the pricing of the uses to which thoy are put by the
community. Complementary economic development benefits would be derived from
improved community organization, reduced disparity between rich and poor, the
enhanced status of women, and strengthened private sector capability. Increased
water supply and easier access would allow women to provide a cleaner environinen:
in their homes, to wash their children more often, to wash their own and their
children's hands after defecation,  and to keep food areas clean.   Greater
availability of water would allow women to raise their own level of personal
hygiene and self-esteem.
3.05      Poverty Impact.   The project would have a significant and positive
impact on poverty alleviation in the short and long term. Only a basic level of
water supply service is being provided. The objective is to spread the benefits
of the investments more widely. Simple, low-cost technologies, including the
installation of hand pumps and rehabilitation of open, dug wells, which are
affordable and manageable by the poor in the dispersed and indigenous rural
populations, are preferred wherever feasible.  The project would thus have a
significant impact on alleviation of rural poverty in Paraguay. The resulting
time savings accruing to women from reduced transport of water, especially in
poor households, should permit greater labor inputs in agricultural activities
during seasonal peaks (planting and harvest times) for which there appears to be
strong demand.   Improvement in health status arising in particular from a
reduction in intestinal disease morbidity, would help to break the vicious cycle
of disease and malnutrition experienced by the poor, lessening the high infant
mortality prevalent in rural areas, and contribute to higher labor productivity
in agriculture.  In addition, significant employment would be generated by the
project both at the construction and operation stages. This could benefit poorer
households in particular, whose involvement in the construction and service
sectors of the rural economy traditionally has been great.   A water supply
project is therefore particularly valuable because it addresses human
consumption.
3.06      Environmental Imoact.   The project would contribute significantly to
improving the environment, and is rated category "B" under the Bank's
Environmental Assessment Operational Guidelines. The project components include
institutional strengthening, new water supply systems in rural communities,
sanitation and hygiene education, and the provision of a technical assistance
program and institutional facilities to enable the respective sector agencies to
carry out their mandates more effectively.   The project components would
generally constitute a substantial positive environmental impact.
3.07      The construction to be financed under the p.-ojsct would not employ any
processes, materials or procedures that would be damaging to the environment.
The main materials to be incorporated in the works would be concrete (cement
manufactured in Paraguay, local sand river, and stone) and plastic piping. The



- 26 -
volume of materials required would be small, and their production would not have
a significant indirect negative environmental impact.  No toxic or hazardous
materials would be used or involved, and there would be no significant residuals.
Construction work would not entail major earthwork nor cause risk or damage to
ecological or natural resource assets.
3.08      Operation and maintenance would not cause environmental damage.  The
principal inputs would be electricity for pumping (low horsepower requirements)
and small quantities of chlorine gas for water disinfection. Water provided in
the water systems will have a chlorine concentration of no less than 0.5 mg/l.
This will prevent any possible contamination of the water reaching the users.
Training would be given in the handling of chlorine gas.
3.09      The water supply component would contribute to reducing contamination
of ground water by improved handpump, tubewell, and water seal designs. Surface
and ground water resources would be exploited through the project. The volumes
abstracted would be very small, particularly when compared to volumes used for
agricultural purposes.   There would be a limited risk to water resource
integrity. The hygiene education and latrine component would have a positive
environmental impact by reducing the health hazard of indiscriminate defecation
in open areas and within domestic households. The risk of local contamination
of groundwater through concentrated underground disposal of excreta in latrines
would be addressed by careful sitting of latrines and new water supplies.
3.10      Economic Analysis.       An economic rate of return has  not been
calculated for this project. Health benefits generated by a reduction in the
incidence of waterborne diseases and the net time savings in the daily collection
of water by beneficiaries are the main objectives of the proposed project. Any
attempt to select and quantify meaningful benefits would likely be only
approximate and incomplete.   Similarly,  using women's time as a means of
measuring economic benefits would represent only a small share of the actual
benefits expected. The calculation of women's time would be equally incomplete
and the methodology inexact.   Water tariffs are often used as a proxy for
benefits in rural water supply projects. While this approach has merit, it does
not reflect any of the actual health-related benefits. In cases where attempts
have been made to calculate women's time in s'miiar projects, findings show that
the economic rate of return would have been much higher.
3.11      Benefits arising form institutional strengthening of SENASA include
a faster rate of implementation, greater cost effectiveness and increased
sustainability of both existing and new schemes through better design,
management, and supervision. Some rural employment generation may also accrue
from private sector construction of water supply and sanitation facilities.
B. Risks
3.12      The technical aspects of the project are straightforward and do not
present a significant risk. The main project risk is the limited implementation
capabilities of SENASA to undertake an expandcd rural water and sanitation
program and to achieve cost-recovery targets.



- 27 -
3.13      The project has been designed to reduce this risk through a strong
technical assistance program that would provide the following measures and
resources:   (a) emphasis on management, technical support, and training; (b!
training for community leaders and personnel from the Juntas; (c) hygiene
education programs; and (d) financial management support.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
During negotiations, assurances were obtained:
From the Government that:
4.01 (a) it will provide the required budgetary funds for the project
(para. 2.09).
(b) it will permit SENASA to implement the results of the study on the
implementation of a revolving fund for sector expansion (para. 2.21).
4.02      That it will cause SENASA to:
(a) furnish to the Bank for comments beginning December 31, 1993 an annual
program for investments in rural water supply and sanitation and for
subsequent yearly review by December 31 of each year (para. 1.20);
(b) maintain the newly agreed organizational structure for the Water and
sanitation Directorate (para. 2.17).
(c) present to the Bank, not later than March 31, 1993, a satisfactory
plan to settle all arrears (either improving collection, renegotiating
or write-off) from the Juntas and begin implementing it thereafter
(para. 2.20);
(d) present to the Bank the results of the study on the Revolving Fund for
the expansion of sector activities not later than March 31, 1993, and
implement its recommendations not later than May 31, 1993 (para.
2.21);
(e) continue having its accounts, including the Special Account, audited
by external auditors acceptable to the Bank and submit audit reports
not later than April 30 of each year for the preceding year (para.
2.22);
(f) apply the interest rate published monthly by the Superintendencia de
Bancos for commercial loans on guarani denominated subloans with the
communities and to review on September 30 of each year starting 1993
the experience in repayment under the subloans (para 2.28).



- 28 -
(g)  jointly review with the Bank, in September 1993, progress in the
execution of the Technical Assistance Program and make the necessary
adjustments thereafter (para. 2.33):
(h)  to apply the selection criteria agreed to all subprojects to be
financed under the loan (para. 2.35);
(i)  sxecute contracts that will include the specific conditions listed in
para. 2.37;
(j)  continue to use its present tariff systf,m ano review tariffs for each
community each year and revise them if necessary to comply with the
revenue covenant (para. 2.39);
(k)  audit the account of each Junta beneficiary of the Project once a year
(para. 2.40);
(1)  not later than December 31 of each year, as long as goods or works
remain to be procured, the Bank and SENASA should agree on a
procurement schedule for the following year (para. 2.42);
(m)  cause each Junta to meet its cash down payment of at least 15% of the
construction works in each community prior to the initiation of works
or provision of equipment or materials (para. 2.50); and
(n)  submit progress reports to the Bank, including monitoring indica'ors
described in Annex 10, in June and December of each year, starting on
June 30, 1993, and carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term project
review not later than November 30, 1994 and execute to the
satisfaction of the Bank the plans of action agreed during the project
review (para. 2.52);
4.03      The condition of eff:e   veness would be:
that SENASA present co the Bank standard bidding documents and
procedures and a procurement schedule covering calendar years 1992 and
1993 (para. 2.42).
B. Recommendation
4.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for a Bank Loan of US$23 million equivalent, to be repaid over a
period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Washington, D.C., August 21, 1992.



PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Previous Bank Experience
Background
1.   The Bank has made two Loans to Paraguay for the implementation of rural
water  and  sanitation  projects:    Loans  1502-PA  and  2014-PA.    The  Bank
concomitantly has helped the National Service of Environmental Sanitation
(SENASA) in the execution of water and sanitation programs for the rural
population through Loan 1502-PA for US$6.0 million in 1977 and Loan 2014-PA for
US$11.8 million in 1981, which were completed in 1983 and 1990, respectively.
Loan 1502-PA
2.   In the early 1970s, water and sanitation services in Paraguay were very lcw,
with only 17% of the 2.6 million population having access to safe water. Only
Asuncion and a few other cities had public water and sanitation services. A worse
situation was found in the rural areas, where only about 10 rural communities had
adequate water services. The causes of this lag in rural water services were
associated with the low level of government investment in the sector, the weak
absorptive capacity of responsible institutions, and the lack of sector
development policies.
3.   The main project objective was to support the development of adequate
institutional capacity and community participation to achieve the expected
results and to expand services further to the rura' areas most in need. The
project provided for: construction of about 42 rural water systems intended to
benefit a population of nearly 63,000 people by 1981; the execution of a pilot
project for individual waste disposal systems; and implementation of technical
assistance to develop the managerial capacity of the project execution agency and
the beneficiary communities. At project completion in 1985, three years after
the appraisal estimate, expectations were exceeded: a population of 82,000 people
in 47 rural communities enjoyed a safe water supply and about 10,000 benefitted
from sanitation facilities. The most important outcomes of the project were its
impact on institutional development, community participation, and operational and
maintenance practices. The scheme of community participation produced good
results. Under this scheme, the communities took direct responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of the systems. SENASA, as a national institution, took
the lead in providing communities with the requisite technical assistance in
management, appropriate supervision for operation and maintenance, and assistance
in other problem areas as they arose.
4.   The project strategy was to strengthen SENASA to cope with the challenging
task of providing water and sanitation services to the rural population. At
appraisal, SENASA was a weak institution with limited professional staff and no
capacity to implement a large-scale project. At the end of the project, SENASA's
institutional capacity had improved. However, the project was affected by
financial and institutional weakness at the central level causing delays in
projert execution. The time required for preparing final designs and construction



was underestimated since the technical constraints of SEMASA to ascertain ground
water sources were not fully anticipated.   SENASA established partial cost
recovery criteria for communities based on individual financial studies.  In
general, these criteria worked well; however, the portion financed through Loans
was not carefully reviewed at the time of sub-contract negotiations. A new
organizational structure responded to this concern; despite this progress, SENASA
still needed further assistance to increase its implementation capacity and
technical assistance to the communities.
Loan 2014-PA
5.   The project was conceived as a follow-up to Loan 1502-PA to expand water
and sanitation services in rural areas and further strengthen SENASA. The project
area included communities in seven rapidly developing departments is southern
Paraguay. Emphasis was given to the continuation of a high level of community
participation in project preparation, execution, and financing. The project
replicated the institutional arrangements through the association of water users
that had proven highly effective in the execution of the first Bank-financed
project. Project objectives were to: provide water to the 1985 population of 49
rural communities. The project consisted of: (a) construction of new or extension
of existing water supply systems in 49 rural communities; (b) installation of
about 2,000 sanitary units (consisting of a shower, lavatory, and laundry
facilities); and (c) construction of about 2,000 latrines; (d) procurement of
equipment and tools for regional laboratories for well drilling operations, and
for community repair shops; (e) procurement of trucks for construction
supervision; (f) provision of health education programs; and (g) provision of
technical assistance to SENASA in project management.
6.   Project works were completed by the end of 1990, that is, five years behind
appraisal estimate. Main reasons for delays in project execution were: (a)
weakness in SENASA's top management; (b) lack of counterpart funding from the
Government due to fiscal constraints; (c) frequent delays in procurement approval
by Government authorities; (d) temporary suspension of loan disbursement on
country grounds (foreign exchange rate issues) between mid 1984 and January 1987;
and (e) paralysis of works between May and September 1989 because of a change of
government and the subsequent change in SENASA's management.
7. At the end of the project, 51 systems were functionirg, serving a total
population of about 60,000 people. The number of standpipes constructed were
substantially below appraisal estimates due to community preference for house
connections (1,000 built versus 12,000 estimated at appraisal). Overall, SENASA's
staffing indicators were also met. However, staff allocation for construction
supervision and technical assistance to communities was poorly planned and
frequently plagued by problems resulting from lack of per diem and transportation
for engineers and social workers. SENASA, in its role as lending agency to the
communities, fell behind in billing and collection, maintaining excessively high
accounts receivable.
8.   Community participation in project financing was within the parameters
established in the Loan Agreement. Cash and self-help contribution to direct
investment averaged 18% (covenanted was'a minimum of 10%). Total contribution,



cash and self-help plus long- term debt ranged from a low of 18Z to a high of 68Z,
which is well above the minimum covenanted of 22%.  'This figure, however,
overstates the extent of community participation because: (a) it masks the high
level of subsidy resulting from an interest rate of 9.6% and a domestic annual
inflation rates over 20% on average in the 1980s; and (b) it does not take into
account the costs incurred by SENASA in project preparation, promotion,
supervision, and technical assistance to the communities. The fund created by
SENASA, paid by the user associations for major repairs of the water systems, has
not met the objectives established in the project design. In fact, the purchasing
power of these resources, which were entrusted by the communities to SENASA, has
been substantially eroded over the years since these funds were deposited in the
Central Bank in a non-interest-earning account. The financing of these major
repairs could, however, be hampered by the insufficiency of resources in the fund
for major repairs created under Bank-financed projects.
9.   Despite the success of the project, it is clear that sector planning and
new financial and management practices need to be explored to allow faster
improvements in service coverage. Only 7.4% of the rural population, which
accounts for 64% of the total population, enjoys safe water supply. The revised
policies should aim at further improvements in cost recovery and reductions in
government subsidies. In particular the high level of subsidies, which encourage
preference for full connections--as opposed to .tandpipes and other low-cost
solutions--should be reduced.   This could be accomplished by the following
measures:  (a)   offering different service levels based on the population's
ability and willingness to pay; and (b) establishing terms and conditions for the
subloans that ensure a more satisfactory cost recovery and transparency of the
subsidies to the communities. Consideration also should be given to market-
determined interest rates.
10. The Bank has learned key lessons that should be used in future projects,
such as the need to: (a) build-in a suitable mechanism to ensure that funds and
technology will be available for major system repairs; (b) deal with procurement
issues early in project preparation, and promptly resolve problems that arise
during project execution; and (c) maintain adequate and timely supervision inputs
throughout the project life, regardless of any interruption in disbursements.
The main lessons learned are the following: (a) the Ministry of Health should
provide more effective support to SENASA, particularly for the timely transfer
of required budgetary resources; (b) SENASA should concentrato on more effective
and efficient construction supervision and provide timely technical assistance
to sustain community support; and (c) SENASA should maintain better communication
with the Ministry of Finance on procurement matters, including discussions
regarding understanding of Bank guidelines.
Communities Visited
11. During project preparation a Bank mission, in August of 1991, visited a
group of communities in which water systems were built through previous Bank
Loans. During this trip a few communities to be included in the proposed project
were also visited. The field report kept in project files includes a detailed



description of the current status of each community water suipply system, and the
operation of the Juntas.
Field Visit Itinerary
No  DATE   DEPARTMENT_|  COMMUNITY        POP. _IBRD|           OBSERVATIONS
1   14   Cordillera  Yhaca Roysa        2,000  III  Water vendors, open wells
2    14   Cordillera  Azcurra           3,356  III  Ribbon development
3    14   Cordillera  Cabafias          3,271  III  Disperse community
4   14   Cordillera   Cabaffitas          150  III  Commission of 30 families
5    14   Cordillera  Atyra             3,000   I   Assists 2 "Filiales"
6    14   Cordillera   Tobati           6,370   I   Paid loan, planning sewers
7   14   Cordillera   Isla Pucu         1,646   I   Meters, adding 2nd well
8   14   Cordillera   Pindoty           2,293  III  Ribbon development
-    14   Cordillera   San Juan           1,965  III  Few water sources
10   16   Paraguari    Escobar            500   I   Well-managed small system
11   16   Paraguari    Sapucai          2,337   I   All-gravity system
12   16   Paraguari    Caballero        1,300   I   Sliding scale of tariffs
13   16   Paraguarl   La Colmena        1,512   I   Japanese-funded assistance
14   16   Paraguari    C Barrientos       500  III  Existing well needs system
|15 |17   Central      Itaugua         iO,445   I   Advanced metered system
16| 19   Central       Ybyraty          2,000  III  Filial No. 4 to Itaugua
17T| 19 jjCaaguazu     [ SJ Arroyos     3,500(  I  |Expanding sophisticated system
18   19   Guairl       Col. Martinez   1,100  II  Troubled small system
19   19   Guairl       Itape            1,045  II  Active Junta but low flows
20   19   Guair&        Iturbe          2,970  II  project under completion
21   19   Guair&       Rumi              1,000  II  Well-organized community
22| 19   Guair&       !Fassardi            800  II  Rapidly expanding community
23 1 20   Caazap&      Grl. Morinigo   1,000  III  Proposed as a BIRP III project
24 | 20   Caazap&       SJ Nepomuceno   6,000  II  project under completion
25 | 20   Caazapi      Abai             2,500  II  project under completion
26_j 20   Caazap.       San Agustin     2,000  III  Expanding agricultural town
[27 | 20   Guairl        Independencia   6,000  II  Project has reduced diseases
[28 j 20   Guairl       1NTalavera          836[ I   Project under completion
[29   20   Guair&       MHJ Troche          891  II  Project under completion



iNo  DATE][ DEPARTMENT    COMMUNITY       POP.  IBRDi           OBSERVATIONS
30   20   Caaguazfa    Capitan Cu6      1,802  III  Ribbon development, open wells
31   20   Caaguazfi   Guyraungu&            950  III  Ribbon development, open wells
1 32   20   Caaguazfi    J Eulogio E      2,100 'I  Active Junta, diseases reduced
33   20   Caaguazfi   JD Ocampos        1,069  III  Ribbon development, open wells
34   20   Alto ParanA JE O'Leary        3,000  II  Well-managed system
35   20   Alto ParanA JL Mallorquin   7,500  II  Large successful project
36   21   Alto Paranf  Santa Fe         3,689  III  Expanding farming community
37   21   Alto Paranf  Itaquyry         2,895  III  Expanding farming community
38   22   Alto Paranl Los Cedrales    2,000  III  Farming area, many diseases
39   22  Alto Paranf  Santa Rosa        6,000  III  Farming area, many diseases
40   22   Alto Paran& Santa Rita        2,000  III  Active new municipality
41   22   Alto ParanA Naranjal          2,853  III  Advanced farming community
42   22   Itap6a       M Auxiliadora   1,800  III  Progressive Water Committee
43   22   Itap6a       Bella Vista      1,500  II  Sophisticated management
44   22   Itapua       Obligado         2,387  II  Highly organized community
45   22   Itapua       Hohenau          4,200  II  Highly organized community    4
46   22   Itap0a       JesCis           2,300  II  Active Junta expanding system
47   22   Itapfia      Trinidad          1,700  II  Tariff-collection service
48   23   ItapCia      Cptn. Miranda   2,300  III  Already begun water project
49   23   Itapda       C del ParanA    4,000  II  Large system, salinity problem
50   23   Misiones     Santiago         2,0001 II [Low flows from 3 wells
51   23   Misiones     San Patricio    1,600  II  Successful project
52   23   Misiones     San Miguel       2,500  II  Good flow from shallow aquifer
53   23   Misiones     Villa Florida   2,6511 II  project under completion
54 | 23 F|Paraguari  jCarapegu        j 5,5331  I  |Advanced Junta planning sewers
55 g26   San Pedro   |San            |   -      -   GTZ handpump & latrine
___________IEstanislao       _            tprojects
561 26   San Pedro  [Chor6            |   -      -  IGTZ piped water systems



PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
eie:r~~~~TOA                                     18       .        19419.                            199                99                8..
ad Watr S"ym to 170 Communtes  7960 12200  20160 1194 1830 3024 1692 2440 4032 1990 3050 5040 1692 2440 4032 1194 1830 3024  398  610  1006
b)S butn to 26 000 khbltants      700   1600   2500  106  270  376  140  300  600  176  460  626  140  360  650   105  270  375   35   90   125
WowatoD bpudpoptatlon             776   1205   1980  116  181  297  156  241  396  194  V01  495  156  241  396  116  181  297   39   601  99
|dEqumnt. Pwte an V dhce          165   160   2015    25  278  302   33  370  403   41  463  604   33  370  403   25  278  302    8 a                3   101
Total Const,cto  Coam: 96O0  17055  266S5  1440 2568 3998 1920 3411 6331 2400 4264 6664 1920 3411 5331 1440 258 3998  480  853  1333
EnpFk *nd Adn*iltratn             7361 11551l91 110  173  2841 147  231  378  184  289  473  147  231 1 3781 110  173  284   37   58    95
Stwieand Tech. Asktance Program    3001 950   120   451431 88    60  190  250   75 238 313    601901 260 46  143  168   1 48    63
TotelBaseCosts:{10036 19160  29796 1695 2874 4469 12127 3832 6959 2659 490 7449 2127 -332    159 5 |28744469  532  958  1490 
Phdcal C4vitingenles           |809   1274   2083  121  191  312  162  265  417  202  319  521  162  255  417  1211 191  3121 40   64 104
Prim Contheniebs               |_1632   2778  4410  245  417  662  326  556  882  408  695 1103  326  566   882  245  417  682   82  139   221
TOTAL PROJECT COST: 13077 23212  36289 1962 3482 5443 2615 4642 7258 3269 5803 9072 2615 4642 7268 1962 3482 6443  8   1161
Loo - los ed
For - forelihn coaso
Tot - totaoats
N>



PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Ortanizational Structure of SENASA
The Executine Agencv
.1.    The National Environmental Sanitation Service (SENASA) is a dependency of
the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. It is a semi-autonomous operating
agency with its own enabling legislation (Law No. 369 of 1972) which allows it
among other things, to enter into contracts directly. Since its creation in
1972, SENASA has dealt with the following activities: rural water supply and
sanitation (by law limited to communities of up to 4,000 inhabitants), solid
wastes, water and air pollution control, occupational hazards, industrial
hygiene, vector control, and food hygiene. Through the execution of the two
previous Bank loans, rural water and sanitation has been the main core of
SENASA's program.   However, until late 1991 SENASA's administration did not
assign personnel and resources consistently among the various activities. Staff
and budgets were allocated on an ad hoc basis according to needs.
2.    The lack of a defined and sustained organizational structure had negative
effects on the efficiency of SENASA's operations. It also adversely affected
financial management and accountability, as the different activities were not
managed through separate accounts.   In an effort to improve the financial
soundness of the rural water and sanitation program (better cost recovery; lower
and more transparent subsidies), as well of the effectiveness of water and
sanitation programs, the Bank held discussions with SENASA's top officials on the
need to separate clearly, within the organizational structure, water and
sanitation from the other environmental health activities.   The option of
creating a new and distinct rural water and sanitation agency was discussed, but
because it would involve significant organizational disruption, delay, and
political implications, it was decided to pursue this idea later, during project
execution.
3.    The first steps toward the restructuring of SENASA began to be taken in
mid-1991, when it was discussed during the preparation of this project, to create
a separate Directorate of Water and Sanitation (SaneAmiento Basico). The staff
of this Directorate have been physically relocated to a facility in San Lorenzo,
on the outskirts of Asuncion. This move has provided a better communication and
much-needed office space for all staff (both in the old main building and in San
Lorenzo) and the beginning of a distinct water and sanitation entity. Besides
the new Directorate of Water and San4tation), SENASA is creating two other
Directorates, Environmental Health and Administration.
4.    SENASA is presently headed by a Director General who reports to the
Minister of Health. SENASA as a whole had a total of 470 employees as of late
1991. Of these, 188 were assigned to the Directorate of Water and Sanitation's
head office in San Lorenzo. SENASA has an extensive field staff assigned to the
15 Sanitary Regions of the Ministry of Health. The field staff devote their time



primarily to water and sanitation, but they also must carry out various
environmental health activities. The field staff of the Water and Sanitation
Directorate consists of 18 Supervisors (there are also 3 Supervisors in
Headquarters), 88 Sanitation Inspectors (Inspectores de Saneamiento), and 95
Sanitation Assistants (Auxiliares de Saneamiento). Inspectors generally have a
high school degree (12 years of schooling) and have received substantial in-
service training. They are normally assigned to district capitals. Assistants
tend to have about 9 years of schooling and more limited training, and their
postings tend to be the rural settlements (companias). There is an Inspector or
Auxiliary assigned to almost every District (of which there are 190).
Reorganization of Water and Sanitation Directorate
5.    The Water and Sanitation Directorate plans to adopt a new organizational
structure whose main objectives are to (1) formalize the delegation of
responsibility for water and sanitatlion within SENASA to a  Director,  (2)
streamline the operation of the headquarters staff, and (3) improve the
effectiveness of the field staff by clarifying their functions and relations with
headquarters. A listing of functions of each of the Departments and Divisions
of the new organizational structure appears in page 11 of this Annex.
6.    To  improve  SEMASA's  capacity  to provide  support  to the Juntas  de
Saneamiento, all activities involving ongoing, sustained field work will be
placed within one new Department, Operations.  This Department will, through
direct management of the field staff, handle all the phases of support to the
Juntas de Saneamiento, including promotion, Junta organization, system
construction, training of Junta members and employees, establishment of financial
administration systems, and operation and maintenance.   This structure will
improve management by creating a single line of authority between the central
office and the field staff.   The Operations Department will include a unit
responsible for coordinating all training activities and for overseeing the
social promotion and health education programs related to water and sanitation.
These functions are placed in Operations because they also involve dealing with
the Juntas and their members on an ongoing basis.
7.    In addition,  the Operations Department will contain a new Division,
Financial Management of Juntas, which will fill a void in the existing
organizational structure.   This Division will be responsible for providing
technical support to the Juntas in preparing financial statements, setting
contributions and tariffs, billing and collection, and managing their repair
funds (fondos de reposicion). The Division will also collect and consolidate the
Juntas' annual financial statements and perform audits on these reports on a
selective basis. The Diwision will c-iannel the consolidated Junta statements to
the Administration Department for preparation of the Directorate's financial
accounts.
8.    A new Technical Department will be created to take responsibility for
specific and time-bound functions:   Studies and Designs, Wiater Resources
(evaluation of sources and well drilling), and Technical Assistance (construction



supervision and operation & maintenance support). The field work of these units
will be coordinated through the Operations Department.
9.    A new Planning and Monitoring Office (not a Division), attached to the
office of the Director, will be established to ensure that short and long term
work plans (including financial projections) are prepared for the entire
Directorate, that budgets are prepared and appro,ed to support the work plans,
that disbursement requests are made to the Administration Office in an orderly
and timely manner, and that the progress of the entire Directorate's program is
monitored.
10.   Administration  functions  for  the  Water  and  Sanitation  Directorate
(accounting, disbursements, logistics, inventory control, and bidding &
contracting) will initially be handled by the main Administration Directorate of
SENASA. However, a "branch office" of the central Administration Directorate
will be established at the San Lorenzo facility to facilitate management of the
water and sanitation operation.   This office will need to be staffed and
equipped. It is expected that this Administration Office will, over time, become
a semi-independent unit.
11.   At the field level, SENASA has already established a system of Supervisors
in each of the 15 Regions into which the Ministry of Health's operations are
divided. Each Supervisor has between 6 and 14 Inspectors and Assistants under
his control, depending on the area and population of the Region.
Human Resources
12.   Implementation of the new structure for Water and Sanitation will require
reassigning personnel and in some cases hiring new staff.  The areas that pose
major staffing issues are the following:
13.   Staff will have to be assigned to the proposed new Planning and Monitoring
Office, which will play a critical role in overall management. This should be
headed by a very experienced professional supported by a computer/data base
technician and a budgeting technician.
14.   The Administration Office for the Water and Sanitation Directorate will
need to be created and staffed. It should be headed by a senior accountant and
have at least two bookkeepers to assist in carrying out accounting, disbursement,
logistics, inventory control, and bidding & contracting tasks.
15.   The existing Environmental Education unit is to be expanded to become a
Training, Promotion, and [Health) Education Division. A Training Coordinator
will need to be named. This person would manage the design and implementation
of all in-service training for the whole Directorate, including technical,
financial, and social subjects. In-house training would be conducted using staff
from other Divisions and consultants.   The Training Coordinator would also
arrange to send staff to courses held by other organizations inside and outside
the country. In light of the growth of SENASA's program under the Bank project,



the number of educators will need to increase to five.  A special technical
assistance and training program will be needed.
16.   The proposed new Financial Management of Juntas Division will need to be
staffed and trained. It is recommended that this Division be headed by a senior
accountant backed up by a bookkeeper and an experienced Supervisor.
17.   The new Technical Department will be composed of three existing units (see
organization chart).   An assessment of the current staffing of these units
indicates that, in general, they have sufficient personnel to carry out the
required functions under the new Bank project. The Water Resources Division will
need the services of a professiona'l hydrogeologist, but it is probably not
necessary to hire one permanently, as this support can be provided by a
consultant. The Studies and Projects Division requires an additional surveyor
to assist in the preparation of designs for the remaining systems under the Bank
project. This person could be hired on a fixed-term or temporary basis.
Technical Assistance and Training Program
18.   The technical assistance program TAP will consist of four major components
designed to strengthen the capabilities of SENASA's Water and Sanitation
Directorate to implement a significantly larger investment program, to support
more effectively the establishment and operation of Juntas, and to expand the
range of technological options in rural water and sanitation. The components of
technical assistance are:
(a)   Planning, Management, and Technical Support
(b)   Financial Accounting and Administration
(c)   Training, Social Promotion, and Health Education
(d)   Application of New Technology Options for Water and Sanitation
Technical assistance will be provided by long-term and short-term consultants.
Training will take various forms, including short in-service courses led by
consultants, on-the-job training supervised by consultants and senior staff, and
attendance at training courses or conferences in the country and abroad. Visits
to successful programs and/or institutions in other countries of the region will
also be promoted.   The TAP will be supported by the provision of necessary
equipment.
19.   Planninz. Management. and Technical Support:  Technical assistance and
training will be provided to establish an effective planning and management
system in the Water and Sanitation Directorate. Substantial attention will focus
on setting up and implementing systems for work planning, budgeting, reporting,
monitoring, and evaluation. Data bases will be established to monitor (1) the
status of existing Juntas and existing water and sanitation facilities and (2)
the development of new Juntas and their subsidiaries (filiales) together with
construction of new facilities.
20.   In the area of technical support, assistance will be provided in a variety
of areas, including refinement of design standards, construction supervision,



operation and maintenance, water conservation, and disposal of sullage (grey
water).   Regarding design standards, the work will involve optimizing the
affordability of the solutions being offered through the application of more
flexible  parameters.      Improved  construction  supervision  (for  example,
installation of distribution networks) will be based on upgrading the capacity
of field staff (Supervisors, Inspectors and Assistants) rather than enlarging
this as a central function. A manual will be prepared and specialized training
will be provided to field staff in following the guidelines. A similar approach
will be used for improving operation and maintenance; additionally, an expanded
training course for system operators and plumbers (of the Juntas) will be needed.
Water conservation will be promoted through technical assistance and education
for the Juntas to encourage the installation of meters and the levying of
appropriate water tariffs. Disposal of sullage is an important problem where
households have individual water connections.   Technical assistance will be
provided to enable field staff to promote the installation of, at minimum,
absorption pits for grey water.
21.   The above package of technical assistance will include the services of a
long-term international adviser in planning, management, and technical support.
The advisor's main tasks during the initiation of the project would be:
(a)   Assisting the Water and Sanitation Directorate to establish its
planning and management systems, including basic work programming,
reporting and budgeting.
(b)   Assisting in the selection of the remaining communities to be
included  in  the project,  based  on  the  agreed-upon  selection
criteria.
(c)   Assisting in the design of a strategy and work plan for the
training, social promotion, and education components, with priority
on setting up orientation and training for field staff.
22.   Financial Management and Accountina:  This component will be designed to
improve the Water and Sanitation Directorate's own accounting systems and
establish and manage the revolving fund and also to provide assistance to the
Juntas in setting up and maintaining their individual accounts.   At the
Directorate level, the effort will focus on establishing a separate accounting
system for the water and sanitation activities. A financial reporting system
will be designed to enable the Administration Department to produce periodic
financial statements. This system, which will be as simple as possible, will
collect information from the field level (projects and Juntas) through the
Operations Division. Special areas of emphasis in this aspect of the technical
assistance and training program will include cost accounting, inventory control
and reporting for management decision process.
23.   A top priority in the initial stage of the project will be to provide
training to the Supervisors, Inspectors, and Assistants in basic financial
concepts and policies, to enable them to assist the Juntas in setting cash
contributions, loan repayments, and tariffs.  Field staff will also receive
training in simple accounting practices so that they may to assist the Juntas on
an ongoing basis in preparing their financial reports. At the same time, the



accounting system for the Juntas will be reviewed and standardized, through the
preparation of a manual.   A training course, using up-to-date audio-visual
materials and learning methods, will be implemented for Junta personnel in charge
of financial management (accountants, treasurers, or secretaries). This training
will cover accounting, setting charges and tariffs, billing and collection, and
management of repair funds.
24.   Training.  Social Promotion, and Educationt   Technical assistance and
training will be provided to the Training, Social Promotion, and Education
Division to build up its capacity to support the central office staff, field
staff and the Juntas. A general priority is to train the staff of the Division
in the use of modern, participatory training methods. The most urgent immediate
task will be the design and implementation of a training course for field staff
in techniques for the promotion and organization of Juntas and the stimulation
of community participation. Apart from these specific priorities, the Training,
Promotion, and Education Division will receive assistance in the development and
execution of an overall work plan. Support will be provided for the preparation
of new and varied training materials using both printed and audio-visual
techniques. The project will equip the Division with at least one "education
vehicle", a van containing video and other equipment, to enable promotion and
training programs to be carried to the rural communities easily.
25. ApDlication of New TechnoloAv Options: Technical assistance, in the form
of consultants, will be provided to support the implementation of a demonstration
program in the &pplication of lower-cost technologies for water and sanitation.
The scope of this program is described in Annex 9.
Job Descriptions and Functional Manuals
26.   In addition to the above, the lead consultants assigned to the various
components of technical assistance and training will work with officials and
staff of the Water and Sanitation Directorate to develop detailed job
descriptions and functional manuals for all the positions in their respective
areas.



FUNCTIONS UNDER THE NEW ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF SENASA's
WATER AND SANITATION DIRECTORATE
1. DIRECTOR's OFFICE
a.    Overall management of the rural water and sanitation program,
including investment in new systems and supervision of existing
ones.
b.    Assistance to the Director General of SENASA for the establishment
of policies and strategies.
2.    OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
a.    Management and coordination of all functions involving sustained
contact with Juntas de Saneamiento.
b.    Direct supervision of and support to all field staff (Supervisors,
Inspectors, Assistants).
2.1   Field Operations Division
a.    Supervision of Supervisors, Inspectors, and Assistants in
promotion, establishment of new Juntas, project development
and implementation, operation and maintenance, and other
technical activities (e.g. sanitation).
b.   Coordination of activities with the Training and Education
Division and Financial Management of Juntas Division.
2.2   Training and Education Division
a.    Coordination,  design,  and  management  of  all  training
activities for staff of the SENASA Water and Sanitation
Directorate, Junta members, Junta employees, teachers and
beneficiaries.
b.    Training  of  field  staff  in  social  promotion,  Junta
organization, and health education.
c.    Direct support to field staff in the areas mentioned in item
b.
2.3   Financial Manaxement of Juntas Division
a.    Assistance and training for Juntas in setting contributions
and tariffs, accounting, billing and collection, management of
repair funds, and preparation of financial statements.
b.    Review,  consolidation,  and auditing of Juntas'  financial
statements.
3.    TECHNICAL DEPARTMENT
a.    Preparation of engineering and socio-economic studies;
b.    Preparation of designs.
c.    Management of bidding and supervision of construction.



d.    Setting norms and standards for construction and operation of water
and sanitation facilities.
e.    Carrying out hydrogeologic studies and constructing wells.
f.    Overseeing operation and maintenance of systems by Juntas and
responding to requests for assistance with O&M.
Note! This Department will coordinate all its activities relating to the
Juntas through the Operations Department, in particular the Sanitary
Regions Division.
3.1   Studies and Proiects Division
a.    Socio-economic feasiLility studies.
b.    Engineering studies.
c.    Designs and cost estimations.
d.    Approval of designs and completed projects.
e.    Setting technical norms and standards.
f.    Development and promotion of improved sanitation solutions.
3.2   Water Resources Division
a.    Hydrogeologic studies.
b.    Well construction and maintenance.
3.3   Construction Division
a.    Administration of bidding for contracting of construction of
major water system components (pump houses, electrical
systems, storage tanks).
b.    Supervision of construction of systems, through the field
staff.
3.4   Technical Assistance Division
a.    Provision of assistance in installation of electro-mechanical
facilities.
b.    Overseeing  operation  and maintenance  and  responding  to
requests for assistance in O&M.
C.    Implementation of special studies, under the guidance of the
Planning and Monitoring Office.
4.    PLANNING AND MONITORING OFFICE
a.    Preparation of short, medium, and long-term work plans for the
Directorate as a whole.
b.    Preparation of budgets and budget forecasts corresponding to the
work plans.
c.    Monitoring the progress of the work plans, based on periodic reports
from the Operations and Technical Support Departments.
d.    Coordinating with the Administration Directorate of SENASA to assure
that disbursements are requested and made on a timely basis.
e.    Design and supervision of implementation of special studies to
improve system performance.



5.    ADMINISTRATION OFFICE
Note: This Office will operate as a "branch" of the main Administration
Directorate of SENASA.
a.    Maintenance of accounts for the Water and Ss.titation Directorate.
b.    Receipt of financial statements from Juntas- -hrough the Financial
Management of Juntas Division, for consolidation with overall
Directorate Accounts.
c.    Disbursements.
d.    Inventory control.
e.    Bidding and contracting.
6.    FIELD STAFF
6.1.  SuDervisors
a.    Managing day-to-day activities of Inspectors and Assistants in
their areas.
b.    Ensuring that regional work programs are being implemented.
c.    Coordinating the flow of instructions from the central office
to the field staff.
d.    Coordinating and supervising the flow of information on
technical, financial, and social aspects from the field to the
central office.
e.    Assisting in the implementation of specia. activities related
to promotion, training, health education, application of new
technologies, or studies.
6.2   Inspectors and Assistants
a.    Initial promotion of new projects and other initiatives.
b.    Organization of new Juntas.
c.    Promotion  of  community  participation  in  all  phases  of
projects.
d.    Assistance with design of new water and sanitation facilities.
e.    Supervision of construction.
f.    Assistance in determination of community contributions and
setting of tariffs.
g.    Assistance   in   establishing   financial   accounting   and
administration systems.
h.    Assistance in establishing operation and maintenance systems.
i.    Ongoing support to Juntas for financial administration and
operation and maintenance.
j.    Provision of health education.



PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Organizational Structure of SENASA: Water and Sanitation Department
SENASA
Director General
Director of               Director of Water &                Director of
Administration                   Sanitation                   Environmental
He~alth
Planning
Administration                                      and
Monitoring
Operations                                                      Technical
DeDartment       Water Resources        Construction           Department
Chief                                                           Chief
Country      |-
Operations                         ~~~~~~Studies and,
Projects
|Education and|
Technical|
Assistance
F inancial |
Regi onall
|   Supervisors      l
Inspectors



Page 1 of 5
PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Finances of SENASA and of the Juntasi/
SENASA's Past Financial Performance
1.        SENASA's financial performance during the period 1987-91 has been
adequate.   SENASA has been able to finance its current operations and its
construction  program  without   financial  difficulty  out  of  Government
contributions, proceeds from Bank loans, and grants from KfW and other foreign
and local entities.   The budget executed grew at a rate slightly over the
inflation rate in the period 1987-89; an exception was 1990, when there was a
decrease in nominal and real terms. But the budget for 1991 was approximately
21% higher in real terms than the one for 1990 due to salary increaces. However,
the construction program decreased substantially in 1990 and 1991. The bulk of
the resources for financing the budget in this period came from the Government
treasury. SENASA financed between 1% and 5% from internally generated resources
(sales of services and products, interest and principal repayments of loans by
the Juntas).
2.        About 83% of SENASA's budget  -s devoted to water and sanitation
activities, 5% is assigned to other activities such as environmental and
pollution control, waste disposal, and the remaining 12% represents general
health personnel, supervised by the Ministry of Health.  The following table
shows the permanent personnel by activities at the end of 1991:
Water and Sanitation                       388
Environmental and Pollution Control         24
Other                                       58
Total                                      470
3.        The main activity of SENASA is to build water systems  for the
communities with funds received from the Government, either directly from its
budget or transferring loans as grants and community contributions. Once the
systems are built they are transferred to the communities and the corresponding
assets are discharged from SENASA's books. In the moment that the system is
officially transferred, SENASA also registers as an assets the loan to the
respective Junta, which in previous Bank projects represented about 40% to 50%
of the value of each system. These loans are payable in 20 year terms, at a rate
of interest of 6% for the First Project and 9.6% for the Second Project. The
rate of interest has been highly subsidized, with the rate of inflation ranging
between 15% and 60% in the last 5 years. The value of its portfolio has been
eroded and amounted only to US$418,000 at the end of 1991.
4.        SENASA has little leverage to force the Juntas to pay their debt in
a timely fashion.V Existing arrears to SENASA from previous operations are not
necessarily a reflection of inadequate financial performance of the Juntas, but
rather, a result of SENASA's lax performance in collecting overdue amounts.
1/   Historical and forecast financial data can be found in the project file.
2./  SENSA assistance to the Juntas in operational. administrative, accounting, and tariff
design matters gives it leverage, that has not been sufficiently exercised. This situation
will improve with the implementation of the Project.



Page 2 of 5
Financial regulations in Paraguay required that income to Governmental agencies
be deposited at the Central Bank. As such, SENASA did not have direct access to
amounts recovered from their operations. As a result of this, coupled with the
erosion in value of loan recoveries due to inflation, SENASA had no incentive for
collecting loan repayments from the Juntas. The proposed loan would incorporate
conditionality to address this issue.  But the Juntas generally honor their
commitments and some Juntas have already repaid their loans fully. It will be
agreed during negotiations that SENASA will prepare a plan to settle all arrears
and begin implementation before March 31, 1993. Due to the small amount of the
loans, the plan will include incentives to the Juntas to prepay the loans. This
would decrease the paperwork associated with the collection task and would allow
SENASA to use its staff more productively.
SENASA's Financial Position
5.        SENASA's financial position as of December 31, 1991 was satisfactory.
The debt/equity and the current ratios were robust because there were almost no
current or long-term liabilities. SENASA's balance sheet is summarized below:
Summary of Balance Sheet. December 1991
MiLifon    Thousand
GV.       US S
Current Assets                      3,856     2,910      58%
Net Fixed Assets in Service           890       672      13%
Works in Progress                     934       705      14%
Loans to Juntas                      514        388       8%
Other Assets                          464       350       7%
TOTAL                             6,658     5,025      100Z
Financed by:
Equity                              6,506     4,910      98%
Juntas' Contributions                123        93        2%
Current Liabilities                   29         22        0
TOTAL                             6,658     5,025      100%
Fixed assets are underestimated because SENASA does not revalue its
assets or restate the financial statements due to inflation.  Even though this
is not a serious problem, as SENASA's fixed assets are relatively small, this
problem has been rddressed during project preparation and is now under
implementation.
7.        SENASA's cost accounting system is weak and needs to be strengthened.
It is particularly important to develop a cost accounting system in a way that
the construction costs of each Junta records all necessary data (including Junta
contributions in kind or cash) and allows the issuance of periodic reports.
Likewise, the cost of services and products (well perforations, sales of latrine
materials and equipment) is weak and needs improvement to ensure adequate cost
recovery. The Project will deal with this accounting problem as part of the
technical assistance in accounting and finances (para. 2.33).
Future Financino of SENASA's Water Directorate
S.        The financial forecast for the period 1992-98 shows that SENASA Water
Directorate financial performance is expected to be satisfactory through the
period forecast, under the following main assumptions: (a) the Government would
provide the resources from the ordinary budget in a timely fashion; (b) the
Juntas would contribute about US$9 million to the Project and to other



Page 3 of 5
construction costs; (C) SENASA loans to the Juntas will be at real interest rates
and payments will be collected on time, and (d) SENASA would maintain its liquid
assets of the revolving fund in an interest-bearing account. The financing plan
is summarized below:
S E N A S A (Water Dfrectorate)
Combined Income and Sources and Uses of Funds Statements (1992-97)
;uat4n f*v
_________________________________     --q I -   i lifons).a^;  -(fi-E Thousands)  .----
SOURCES                -_                  .  _  .   _:-       __ -  _ - _ . _ . _ _
Ordinary Budget                                            21671                  18600
Capitai Budget                                              2781                   3286
Sales of services                                            222                    191
Interest on Loans to Juntas                                 1836                   1664
Other current revenues                                       560                    486
Government contributions:
IBRD Loan                                                 26865                 23000
GTZ Grant                                                   700                   599
Loan repayments                                             2797                   2536
Fund for Replacement of Equipment                            -92                    -71
Junta contributions                                        10692                   9142
Total Sources                                             69032                  59433
APPLICATIONS        _._.-_._=_.
Cash Operating expenses                                     15278                 13094
Investment Program:               __._ _
Bank Project                                              42238                  36284
Other investment                                          10979                  9600
Change in working capitaL                                    409                    351
Total Applications                                        68904                  59330
Superavit (deficit) of Funds                                 129                    103
Cash at year-end                                             598                    458
9.         It is extremely important that SENASA develop the Revolving Fund,
since it will become the seed money for financing new or expanded rsLral water
systems. The Fund will give SENASA financial capacity for a more prompt response
to the Juntas' requests as well as increase its leverage to make them fulfill
their commitments. This Fund would include intereqt and principal repayments on
loans to Juntas, sales of services and products (water well pe..oration, sales
of latrine material and equipment, etc.). Due to the influence of the Fund, the
financial projections for the period 1992-98 show that thei ratio of own resources
to construction expenditures gradually increases in importance during the period,
rising from 1.4% in 1993 to 25.8% in 1998. The main source for the Fund are the
interest and repayments of the Juntas' loan principal. The interest rate of the



Page 4 of 5
loans to the Juntas will be at market rates. Two alternatives for onlending
terms are proposedt   (a) application of the rate published, monthly by the
Superintendencia de Bancos for commercLal loans (the average lnterest rate
charged by commercLal banks) on guarani denomlnated subloans; or (b) denominatlon
of subloans in US$, with interest rates linked to LIBOR, repayable in guaranies
in accordance wlth the rate of exchange at the time of repayment. ProvisLon will
be made to include, ln the annual review clause, an agreement to review
experLence in repayment under SENASA's loan8 and adopt necessary measures,
especially in the event of aa increase in the rate of inflation and interest
rates (para. 2.20).
10.       Annex 10 presents key financial indicators to be used for monitoring
the financial performance of SENASA (Water Dlrectorate).
Past Financial Performance of Juntas
11.       Accordlng to avaLlable information, the fLnances of the Juntas were
adequate; however, some of them were in arrears in their debt uervice to SENASA.
Generally, all Juntas cover their operating and maintenance costs with revenues
from tariffs, connection charges, and community contributions. But some Juntas
were unable to keep their debt service on a current basis.
12.       Tariffs are revised periodically wlth the assistance and approval of
SENASh.   The Juntas usually initially establish one tariff per connection.
However, the existence in some towns of relatively large consumers (sucL as
hotels, restaurants, small industries and schools, commercial and Government
buildings) has necessitated the establiahment of a commercial and industrial
tariff. Moreover, some Juntas have installed meters and established a tariff
accordingly.
13.       The Juntas have a good record of water bill collectlon.  Accounts
receivable for the majority of Juntas represent only between 5% and 15% of annual
sales.   However, there are a few Juntas where the percentage of accounts
receivable ia high. The information in the project file shows that seven junta.
had ratios ranging from 17% to 39%. These Juntas are normally monltored more
closely by SENASA, and generally require temporary intervention in their
admlnlstration.
14.       The accounting uystem of the Juntas is rudimentary but seems to be
adequate; however, it is not kept up to date.  SENASA has not paid sufficLent
attention to the accounting system of the Juntas on the grounts that each Junta
should solve their problems by itself. Even though this is a desirable final
goal, it can be achieved only when certain basic conditions have been met. In
the case of the accounting system, supervision by SENASA should be discontinued
only when the systems are running adequately and the Juntas hLre a professional
accountant, or another satisfactory alternative system is in place to maintain
their records on a current basis. Each new Junta is required by SENASA to
lmplement a basic accounting system based on guidelines prepared by SENASA.
Since new boneficiaries have never had water systems, lack of experience impedes
.mplementation of the accounting systems. SENASA has the capability to train the
new Juntas in the installation of theLr accounting system; however, the
aslsitance it provides needs strengthening. Therefore, the Project Lncludes
technical asststance for thio matter.



Page 5 of 5
).nancial Forecast of Sanitary Committees
15.       The project file includes detailed financial projections for three
typical Juntas, which have been selected on the basis of representing a small;
medium and  arge community.  The Juntas selected are: Itanara, Belen and Piquete
Cue whose current populations are 421, 1008 and 3,261 inhabitants, respectively.
The projections show that the systems are financially viable.   Tariffs per
connection range from GI. 6,740 to GI. 10,327 per month (equivalent to US$5.09
to US$7.79, respectively), which are affordable according to the income of these
communities. Furthermore, this projection represents a conservative scenarlo,
since the water systems have been designed to satisfy a consumption of 130 liters
per percon/day.  The Bank has recommended SENASA lower this parameter to 80
liters. When these adjustments are introdtced, a substantial reduction in
estimated system costs is expected.
16.       Tariffs  would  cover  operation  and  maintenance,  debt  service
requirements, working capital and a reserve fund to be used for the replacement
of equipments. There is also prowision for the acquisition of office equipment,
tools, and investment in new connections.



PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Affordabiflty Study II I
(Thousands GM.)
CotTuluflul  )'~puet&snHsuse  ht      4~nctiq  F**,$  ltit ConuibvainCnnua  wn          *: . . La                         OS
..... . ..  JMI-:We   <                          _  | Cc n  |%3    Ccnn.  | I   Years   Month'y    (011    IG1.)    %
SanC,itabd       221       67     79.108      1.181     20    15    177.11  16       177.11 30   10          6 t.86    6.50   13.36    4.78    24.60
Roanra           421       86     96.246      1,119     189    15    167.87  15      167.87  30   10         6.50    7.00   13.50    7.14   NA
A. Transquwe  | 2.015     395    278.008        704     308    16   105.57  15       106.57  30    5         5.60    3.70   9.30    3.02    28.00
[Capitmnatends   036      190    149.714       788      348    15    118.20  156     118.20  30    6       0.72       5.50   12.22    3.51    33.94
SanPabo          537      116    107.021       923      142    15   138.39  15       138.39  30   10         5.35    680   12.156   8.58   NA
YatatydelNorte  1,156     236    189.098       801      141    15   120.19  15       120.19  30   10         4.63    3.90   8.53   6.05    7.59
Lopez Mokeia     942      190    177.973       937      116    15   140.51  15       140.51  30   10         5.44    5.30   10.74   9.23      6.74
BSeln           1.008     221    222.852      1.008     249    15   151.26  15       151.26  30    7         6.73    5.30   12.03   4.83      8.24
Los Cairages    1.716     330    185.443       502      251    15    84.29  15        84.29  30    5         4.47     3.50    7.97    3.18    20.00
Piquete Cue     3.261     649    275.620       425      307    15    63.70  15        63.70  30    5         3.38     3.40    6.78    2.21    13.33
Czazdita        2.451     462    274.529       594      276    15    89.13  15        89.13  30    5         4.73     3.90    8.63    3.13    11.73
Caaguezu        2.329     473    263,057       556      255    15    83.42  15        83.42  30    5         4.43     3.90    8.33    3.26    13.46
Leuretty        7.017    1.493    822.119      651      345    15    82.60  15        82.60  30    7         3.67    3.70    7.37    2.13    12.27
(1) This study was conducted in september of 1991. Socio-economic studies and surveys were conducted in 13 rural communites of different population size.
(21 Total costs represents a water system consisting of a deep well, a pumping equipment, an elevated water storage tank, and a distribution water system and house connections.
(3) Connection cost represents the capital cost per family for the water system.
(4) Family income represents an average monthly income of the families in the community.
(5) Total monthly payment Includes payment of the Loan plus the cost for operation & maintenance and a reserve for replacement of equipments.
(6) Percentage of family monthly income for payment of water supply.
X
Ut



Page 1 of 6
PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Ust of Communities
(as of Mach 1992)
l. MBURICA                 YEEMBUCU               94          424  _                   a         0       0
2. CURUPAYTY               ALTO PARANA          1t2           791         I             0        0       0
3. DOMINGO M. OE IRALA     ALTO PARANA           295          1312         I            I        1        0
4. ESPERA4ZA I             ALTO PARANA           190          1096        I             0        0       0
5. ITA KYRY                ALTO PARANA           6so          3037         1            1        1        0
. LOS CEDRALES             ALTO PARANA           169           714  _                   1        1        0
7. NARANJAL                ALTO PARANA           340          1489         1            1         I       1
8. AACUNDAY                ALTO PARANA           705          3846         1            1        1        0
9. PAZ DEL CHACO           ALTO PARANA            46          200         1             0        0       0
10. SAN CRISTOBAL           ALTO PARANA           142          "48         I             I                 1
li. SANTA FE                ALTO PARANA           228         1109         I            0         0       0
12. SANTO DOMINaO           ALTO PARANA            77          340         1            0         0       0
13*. STA. RITA              ALTO PARANA           192           833        1             1        1        1
14. STA. ROSA OEL MONDAY    ALTO PARANA           226          1013        1             1        1       0
16. CAPITAN BADO            AMAMBAY               060          490         1             1        1       0
18. CHIRIGUELO              AMAMBAY               135          679         1            0         0       0
17. ZANJA PYTA              AMAMBAY               348         1792         1             1        0       0
18. YATIURY GUAZU           CAAGUAZU              163          871         1            0         0       0
19. AGUAPETY                CAAGUAZU              I8S          771         1            0         0       0
20. CAPITAN CUE             CAAGUAZU              280          13t6        1             1        1       0
21. GUYRAUNGUA              CA4^UAZU              17S          873         1             1        1       0
22. JOSE 0. OCAMPOS         CAAOUAZU              550          2462         1                     t 1      0
23. LA PASTORA              CAAOUAZU              361          1658        1             0        0        0
24. MCA. f. SOLANO LOPEZ    CAAGUAZU              493          2061         1            1        1        0
26. OLLA RUGUA              CAAGUAZU               80          465         1             0        0       0
26. PEYUPA                  CAAGUAZU                l          441         1             0        0       0
27. PIRIPOTY                CAAOUAZU              104          660         1             0        0       0
28. PTE fRANCO             CAAGUAZU              168          872         1             0        0       0
29. R13 CORRALES            CAAGUAZU              863          3762         1            1        1       a
30. RAUL A. OVIEDO          CAAOUAZU              621          2270         1            1        0       0
31. SIMON BOUVAR            CAAGUAZU              416          1820         1            1        0        0
32. SINfORIANO BOGARIN      CAAOUAZU              224          825         1             1        t       1
33. VAQUERIA                CAAOUAZU              276         1486         1             0        a       0
34. ORAL. HIGINIO MORINIGO  CAAZAPA               164           687         1            1        1       0
36. MACIEL                  CAAZAPA                62           267         1            1        1        0
36. MOISESBERTONI           CAAZAPA               126           519        1             I        0       0
37. Y8YRACATU               CAAZAPA               117          874         1             0        0       0
38. ALBORADA                CANINDEYU              61          219         1             0        0       0
39. CATUETE                 CANINDEYU             41           16751       1             I        I        I
UII EXECUTED
(02 NOT YET EXECUTED



Page 2 of 6
40. COLONIA ANAMI             CANINDEYU               52           238          1             0         0        0
41. CURUGUATY                 CANINoEYU              see           3930         1              1         1        1
42. ITANARA                   CANINDEYU               I96           es4 .                      1         1       0
43. LA PALOMA                 CANINDEYU              301           1363         1              t         1        t
44. PINOOTY PORA              CANINDEYU               82           309          1              0        0        0
46. PUENTE KYJHA              CANINDEYU              601           2672         1              t         1        t
46. YOATIMI                   CANINDEYU              416           1924         1              1         1        t
47. YPEJHU                    CANINDEYU              248           1247         1              1         1        I
48. ACHUCARRO                 CENTRAL                362          1670          1              1        1        0
49. ALDANA CAVADA CIA 14      CENTRAL                 123           650         1              1        1        0
S0. ALOANACAVADACIAIS         CENTRAL                203          1716          1              1        1        0
61. ALDANA CAVADA             CENTRAL                265          1301          1              1        1        0
62. CAVADITA                  CENTRAL                727          3602          1              1        1        0
63. CAAaUAZU                  CENTRAL                658          2789          1              1        1        1
54. CALLE YSATE               CENTRAL                248          1160          I                       1        0
65. CERRO GUY                 CENTRAL                 93           304          1              1        1        0
56. COCUEGUAZIU               CENTRAL                231          1102          1             1         1        0
57. COLONIA THOMPSON          CENTRAL                 143          607          1              1        1        0
58. COSTA FLEITAS             CENTRAL                276          1546          1             1         1        0
69. ESTANZUELA                CENTRAL                196           783          1             0         0        0
60. GaUAYAI8ITY               CENTRAL                221          1028          1             0         0        0
61. OUAZU CORA                CENTRAL                101           304          1             0         0        0
62. GUAZU VIRA                CENTRAL                330           160          1             1         1        0
63. ISLA VALLE                CENTRAL                335          1602          t1            0         0        0
84. ITAPUAMI                  CENTRAL                209          1017          1             0         0        0
65. ITAUGUA QUAZU             CENTRAL                442          2117          1              1        I        0
66. LAs PIEDRAS               CENTRAL                418          1342          1              1        1        0
67. MsOCAYATY NORTE           CENTRAL                270           126          1              1        1        0
68. MSOCAYATY SUR             CENTRAL                243          3490          I              I        1        0
6o. M80IY                     CENTRAL                479          2467          1             1         1        0
70. NARANJA TY                CENTRAL                257          1938          1             0         0        0
71. NUEVA ESPERANZA           CENTRAL                160           862          1              1        1        0
72. PATIVO                    CENTRAL                130           500          I             0         0        0
73. PINDOLO                   CENTRAL                157           6s91         1             1         1        0
74. PINDOTY                   CENTRAL                112           401          1             0         0        0
76. -'OUETE CUE               CENTRAL                708                        1             1         1        0
76. POSTA YBYCUA              CENTRAL                 o00         2637          1              1        1        0
77. POSTA GAONA               CENTRAL                360          2784          1              1    o            0
79. POTRERO GUAZU             CENTRAL                141           807          1             0         0        0
76. RINCON                    CENTRAL                66s          3493          1             1         1        0
80. RINCON DEL PEON           CENTRAL                704          3,e6          I              I        I        0
81. ROJAS CAYADA              CENTRAL                800          2712          1             1         1        0
82. TOLEDO CAVADA             CENTRAL                858          3620          1              1        1        0
83. VALLE CARE                CENTRAL                241           1080         I             1         1        0
III EXECUTED
(0I NOT YET EXECUTED



Page 3 of 6
84. VALLE PUCU                CENTRAL                720          4038          1             1         1        0
as. VILLA ALTA                CENTRAL                140            030         1             1         1        0
8e. VILLA MANO ABIERTA        CENTRAL                470          2377          1             o   _        
87. YBYRARO                   CENTRAL                932          U486          1             1                  o
YH. YsYRATY                   CENTRAL                499          6069          I             1         1        I
89. Y8YSUNU                   CENTRAL               1I0           1894          1             1         1        0
90. YCUA DURE                 CENTRAL                5I6          2639          1             0         0        o
0 1. YUQUYTY                  CENTRAL                122           o6o          1             1         1        0
02. CAAOUY CUPE               CONCEPCION              so           243      _                 0         0        0
03. CAPITAN SOSA              CONCEPCION              07           622          I             0         0        0
04. LORETO                    CONCEPCION              300          1363         1              1         I       I
96. PASO HORaUETA             CONCEPCION             146           728          1             0         0        0
ea. PASO 8ARRETO              CONCEPCION             120           631          1                       0        0
97. PRIMAVERA                 CONCEPCION              61           277          1             0         0        0
98. RECONSTRUCCION            CONCEPCION              62           368          1             0         a        0
99. ROMERO POTRERO            CONCEPCION              86           416          1             0         0        0
100. SAN LAZARO                CONCEPCION             1060         6321          1             0         0
101. SANTA UBRADA              CONCEPCION              39           104         1              0         0        0
102. SANTO DOMINGO             CONCEPCION              37           262         1              0         0        0
103. VIRGEN DEL CAMINO         CONCEPCION              63           349         1              0         0        0
104. Y8Y YAU                   CONCEPCION              476         2124          1              1        1        1
105. 21 DEJUUO                 COROILLERA             106           671          1             0         0        0
106. AOUAYTY                   CORDILLERA             104           662         1              1         1        1
107. ALFONSO LOMA              CORDILLERA             142           739         1              1         1        0
108. ALFONSO TRANQUERA         CORDILLERA             136           489         1              1         1        1
109. AUJONSO CENTRAL           CORDILLERA             108           477         1              1         1        0
110. AZCURRA                  CORDILLERA             194          1049         1              1         I        0
11 1. sOGUERON                 CORDILLERA              71           321         1              0         0        0
112. CABAYAS                   CORDILLERA             424          2414         1              1         1        0
113. CAPIIPE                   CORDILLERA              96           436         1              0         0        a
114. CARIY LOMA                CORDILLERA              so           336         1              0         0        0
115. CERRO REAL                CORDILLERA             126           478         1              1         1        1
116. CURUPAYrY                 CORDILLERA              91           289         I              0         0        0
117. ITAPIRU                   CORDILLERA             160           738         1              0         0        0
118. PASO TRANQUERA            COROILLERA              66           361         1              0         0        0
110. PINOOTY                   CORDILLERA             360          1716         1              0         0        0
120. POTRERO PO               COROILLERA             lee           814         1              1         1        0
121. ROLON                     COROILLERA             141           838         1              0         0       o
122. SAN ROQUE                 COROILLERA             132           662                        0         0       0
123. SAN JOSE OsRERO           CORDILLERA              116          610                         1        1        1
124. SAN JUAN                  CORDILLERA              so           296         I              0         0        0
125  SANTA ROSAUA              CORDILLERA             224          1213         1              0         0        0
126. SANTA LUCIA               CORDILLERA             260          1079         1              0         0        0
127. VILLASAN JUAN             COROILLERA             138           728         1              0         o        0
IlI EXECUTED
(0o NOT YEr EXECUTED



Page 4 of 6
128. YBU                       COROIUERA                 e1          s8o           1              0         0        o
129. YHACA ROYSA               CORDILLERA               314          1083          1              1         I        0
13). YU POI                    GUAIRA                    83           430          1              0         0        0
131. BEATO ROOUE GONZALEZ      GUAIRA                   le8           s35          1              0         0        0
132. DR. BOTRELL               GUAIRA                   327           1406         1              1         1        0
133. GRAL. EUGENIO A. GARAY    GUAIRA                  490           2195          1              1         1        0
134. JORGE NAV1LLE             GUAIRA                   1es           779          1              0         0        0
135. PASO YOBAI                GUAIRA                   228          1533          1              0         0        0
138. POTRERO DEL CARMEN        GUAIRA                   127           820          1              0         0        0
137. TEBICUARY _UAIRA                                   23S          1137          1              0         0        0
138. TEsICUARYMI               GuAIRA                  390           1760          1              1         0        0
139. 7 DE AGOSTO               ITAPUA                   132           492          1              0         0        0
140. ALTO I ERA                ITAPUA                   658          8071          I              I          I        1
141. CAMBYRETA                 ITAPUA                   114           5o0          I       1                1        0
142. CAPITAN MIRANDA           ITAPUA                   192           842          1              1         1         1
143. CAPITAN MEZA              ITAPUA                   176           917          1               1         1        1
144. CARLOS A. LOPEZ           ITAPUA                   110           466          1              1         1        0
146. CERRITO                   ITAPUA                   349          1626          1              1         0        0
148. CRUCEI 6SCPTAN MEZA       ITAPUA                   16O           717          1              1         1        0
147. DESMOCHADO                ITAPUA                    64           270          1              0         0        0
148. EDEURA 28                 ITAPUA                   133           9e9          1              0o        0        0
149. GUAZU CUA                 ITAPUA                   40            18O          1              0         0        0
160. ISLA UMBU                 ITAPUA                    s9           253          1              0         a        0
151. JOSE L. OVIEOO            ITAPUA                    79           340          1              1         0        0
152. LAURELES                  ITAPUA                   110           486          1              0         0        0
163. MAYOR JOSE D. MARTINEZ    ITAPUA                   188           649          1              0         0        0
154. NARANJITO                 ITAPUA                    e1           310         1               0         0        0
156. NUEVA ALBORADA            ITAPUA                  1is           4e6          1              1         1        0
168. PASO DE PATRIA            ITAPUA                  215            933          1              0         0        0
157. POTREROSANTAMARIA         ITAPUA                  248           1114         1               0         0        0
158. PUERTO CPTAN MEZA         ITAPUA                   129           499         1               1         1        0
159. SAN PEDRO DEL PARANA      ITAPUA                   780          3482          1              1         0        0
160. SAN RAFAEL DEL PARANA     ITAPUA                   149           653          1              1         1        0
101. SAN JUAN OR PARANA        ITAPUA                   178           768          1              1         1        0
182. SAN COSME Y OAMIAN        ITAPUA                  306           1383          1              1         1         1
163. TACUARAS                  ITAPUA                    72           345          1              0         0        0
184. TOMAS R. PEREIRA          ITAPUA                  510           2236          1              1         1         1
16s. TRIUNfO KM I              ITAPUA                   101           665          1              0         0        0
188. VIUA OUVA                 ITAPUA                    78           858          t              a         0        0
107. VILLA FRANCA              ITAPUA                    58           239          1              0         0        0
168. VILLAL8IN                 ITAPUA                   62            216          1              0         0        0
169. YATYTAY                   ITAPUA                  710           3190t 11                               I         I
170. ARAZAPE                   MISONES                 20             928          1              0         0        0
171. AYOLAS                    MISIONES                1210          63s9     1   1t                        1        0
M1) EXECUTED
(0) NOT YET EXECUTED



Page 5 of 6
172, ITA Y        MRU          MISIONEESW7                      -         - I                 A     c         wI
1 72. ITAYURU                    MISIONES                 79          322          1              0        0        0
173. ITACURUsI                 MISIONES                as           227         1              0         0        0
174. SAN RAMON                 MISIONES                92           380         1              0         0        0
176. YA8E8YRY                  MISIONES               110           468          1              I        1        0
176. ARROYO PORA               PARAGUAFi              109           391         1              1         I        0
177. BENI LOMA                 PARAGUARI              100           448         1              0         0        0
178. CAUXTRO                   PARAGUAPJ              133           G66         1              0         0        0
179. CERRITO                   PARAGUARI              162           720         1              0         0        0
180. CERRO LEON PIRAYU         PARAGUARI              163           640         1           t            1        0
181. CERRO LEON                PARAGUARI              286          1840         1              1         1        0
182. CESAR BARRIENTOS          PARAGUARI              128           628         1              1         1        0
183. COL. FULGENCIO YEGROS     PARAGUARt              121           508          1             0         0        0
184. COSTA I                   PARAGUARI              146          1301         1              1         1        0
186. COSTA IRALA               PARAGUARI              119           490         1              a         0        0
1 88  COSTA 2                  PARAGUAR               11t9 610                  I              I         I        0
187. COSTA GAONA               PARAGUARI              132           694         1              0         0        0
188. ESPARTILLAR              PARAGUARI               143           830         1              0         0        0
189. LOMA PYTA                 PARAGUARI              261          1037         1              0         0        0
190. LOPEZ MOREIRA             PARAOUARI              261          1402         1              1         1        0 o
1 91. MONTIEL POTRERO         PARACUARI                89           401         1              0         0        0
192. PASO MALO                PARAGUARt               239          1024         1              0         0        0
193. PEGUAJHO                  PARAGUARI              386          1802         1              1         1        0
194. RAMON DELMAS              PARAGUARI               54           278         1              0         0        0
185. RINCON OUAZU             PARAGUARI               11s           638         1              0         0.       0
196. SAN VICENTE              PARAGUARI               221           873         I              0         0        0
197. SANTA ANGELA              PARAGUARI              104           w36         1              0         0        0
198. SIMBRON                  PARAGUARI                81           384         1              0         0        0
S99. TAYY LOMA                 PARAGUARI              240          1142         1              0         0        0
200. VALLE APUA                PARAGUARI               183          836          1             0         0        0
201. YERE                      PARAGUARI               el           306         1              0         0        0
202. ZAYAS                     PARAGUARI              313          1488         1              0         0        0
203. BENJAMIN ACEVAL           PTE. HAYES             1192         6722         1              1         1        1
204. CERRITO                   PTE. HAYES             219          1138          I             0         0        o
206. COSTA GUAZU               PTE. HAYES              76           371         1              0         0        0
208. BARsERO                   SAN PEORO               62           296         1              1         1        0
207. FUERTE OUMPO              SAN PEDRO              348           1543         1              0        0        0
208, GRAL. ISlOORO RESOUIN     SAN PEDRO              151           662          1              1         1        1
209. ORAL EUGENIO A. GARAY     SAN PEDRO                                         I              0                 o0  0
210. NANAWA                    SAN PEDRO              710          3126          1              1         1       0
211 . NVA. OERMANIA            SAN PEDRO              276           1251         1              1         1
212. PfNASCO                   SAN PEDRO              264           1121         1              0        0        0
213. SAN JOSE DEL ROSARO       SAN PEDRO              221          1160         1              0         0        0
214. SAN PABLO                 SAN PEDRO              126           653          1              1         I       0
216. SANTA CLARA               SAN PEDRO              112           443                        0         0        0
I1I EXECUTED
(0) NOT YET EXECUTE



Page 6 of 6
21S. SMT ROSA DEL AWURA        MN PEDRO               Ids           3400                                        1  
217. TACUARA NORTE             SAN PEDRO               a2          tlOB         I              o         o        o
218. \ALLA VICTOR A            SAm PEDRO              286          1204          i             O         a        0 
219. YATAITY                   Sa PEORO               I2 I1422
ITOTALE                      566.123       2S6.749       210           109       101       20
EII IEECUTED
(0) NOT YET EXECUTED



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
PARAGUAY
THrRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Imrlementation of Water Sq8tems
Introduction
1.        In 1972, under the Ministry of Health, the Government of Paraguay
created the National Sanitation Service (SENASA), in order to provide water
supply and sanitation services to rural communities (less than 4,000
inhabitants).  The Bank has been involved with SENASA since 1977, through two
projects financed under previous loans. SENASA has implemented more than 150
rural water systems and has been instrumental in the construction of a large
latrine program. Reportedly, all of these water systems are still in operation
and many of them have been improved and substantially expanded.   SENASA's
strategy for the implementation of rural water projects follows six steps in the
promotion and execution of rural water supply systems.
Step I - Identification.   Generally, a team of two, an engineer and a
social promoter, visits the community.  The team looks for a community
leader  in order to get a first-hand  impression of the community's
predisposition towards a water system.   The team also looks into the
existence of other community services (electricity, schools, churches,
clubs, etc.) which provide insight into the methods traditionally used by
the community to pay for public services. During this step, the team makes
a quick survey of the area, counting the number of houses and recording
some measurements and distances.
SteD 2 - Promotion and Field Work. Once a community has expressed the
desire to obtain a water system, a team from SENASA visits the community.
Prior to its arrival, SENASA's official visit is announced at a comminity
event, such as a Sunday mass. A team, composed of two social promoters,
visits the community in order to conduct a social survey. Promoters visit
each house and fill out a questionnaire with pertinent information such as:
type of house, owned or rented; house condition; number of persons in the
house, ages, occupation; family income; water supply and its cost; exereta
disposal; home electricity; existence of public street lights, etc. The
team prepares a socio-economic-cultural profile of the community and
assesses its attitude toward water supply and sanitation and its
willingness and financial capacity to commit itself to the construction of
a water system. Studies are made to define the water source, carrying out
some preliminary studies on groundwater availability.   A water supply
technician develops the preliminary designs of the water system and cost
estimates  are  developed.    Step  2 ends with  announcing  he  general
feasibility of the project to the community and detailing the requirements
and responsibilities the community must adhere to in order to receive a
water system from SENASA.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
Step 3 - Preparation of the Proiect. When the community reacts favorably
to the conclusion of Step 2, SENASA engineers at headquarters prepare
studies and designs and establish a reliable cost estimate of the project.
In preparing the designs, engineers follow a clearly defined methodology
and format, apply standard design parameters and designs for most system
components. With the estimated project cost, SENASA's financial department
calculates the amounts to be paid by the community.   These amounts are
defined by : (a) 15% of the investment cost, in cash before the initiation
of the works; and (b) 15Z of the investment cost in labor, materials, or
cash during the execution of the works. In addition, the monthly user fees
are estimated as the aggregate of: (c) amortization of the 30% debt of the
investment costs, paid in ten years' real terms; (d) the operational and
maintenance costs of running the system; and (e) the amount necessary to
support a fund to cover replacement of equipment.
Step 4 - Motivation and Organization.  Once the studies and designs are
available, SENASA promoters seek full community support for the project.
Audio-visual presentations stress the advantages of having a good and safe
water supply and explain sanitary practices for water use.   There are
meetings, open to all community maembers, in which the pros and cons of the
project and the requirement for self-help are discussed. SENASA promoters
establish the requirement to create a Sanitary Committee or "Junta de
Saneamiento".   The community creates the Junta and through public vote
nominates representatives, including a president, for the duration of one
year. At the end of Step 4, the Junta is asked to sign a contract with
SENASA which defines:
(a) the portion of total project cost which the community will contribute
in the form of cash, labor, land and/or materials, before and during
execution of the works;
(b) the portion of funds provided by SENASA which must be repaid, and
conditions for repayment;
(c) the need to contribute to a fund for the replacement of equipment and
instruments;
(d) the responsibility of the community to take over maintenance and
operation of the system once completed and the estimated amount this
will cost;
(e) the obligation of the Junta to create an administration for the
operation and maintenance of the system;
(f)  ,ne estimated monthly payment, which each household (monthly tariff)
would be expected to make, to meet the loan repayment to SENASA, the
costs for maintenance and operation, and for depreciation.



ANNEX 7_
Page 3 of 4
Step 5 - Construction.   Construction of the project starts after the
signature of the contract between SENASA and the Junta, and after the first
payment has been made. After defining and appropriate location, SENASA's
water resource specialists drill and test the wells. The wells are then
equipped  and  the  electrical works  completed.    The  community will
participate in the vorks by: supplying materials; providing labor (pipe
laying), under the guidance of local foreman.  The construction of more
involved facilities (storage tanks, treatment plants) is usually carried
out by a local contractor hired by SENASA. SENASA keeps careful records
of all community contributions.
Stew 6 - Maintenance and Operation. Once inaugurated, the system becomes
the property of the community. The Junta has full responsib4lity for its
administration,  operation,  and maintenance.    The  Junta meets  quite
frequently at the initiation of the operation, and later meets once a
month. At the beginning, it is generally assisted by a representative from
SENASA, who helps the Junta with administrative matters and makes sure that
it follows established procedures. The administration, named by the Junta,
usually consists of a secretary who collects tariffs and keeps the books,
and a plumber who does all technical work. These employees are paid by the
Junta. It also decides on future system extensions and new connections.
SENASA's promoters and technical personnel are always available at the
Junta's request. At the beginning of the operation, SENASA's assistance
is most important. It helps the Junta to get properly organized and the
administrators of the water system to set up adequate procedures.



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAGES FOR THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF A WATER SYSTEM
COMkUINITY IDENTIFICATION                       5 days
r~~~~~~~~~
PROMOTION AND FIELD WORK                        5 days
. P-ROJECT PREPARATION                       7 days
'-NITIAL-ENGINEERING I)SIGNS
COSTS""AND TINANCIAL -,STUDIES.:"
CObMMUNITY ORGANIZATION                        3 days
''   .CREATION'-OP JUNTA''^'
IE  ,,MSTUDIES            S               7 days
: DEFINITION OF WATER,:SOURCES Jr
:-.-PINAL ENGINEERING DESIGNS                      5 days
','  '   -:COSTS ,   :,,-.,,
CONTRACT AND STGNATURE SENASh'j                   3 days
-''':'0"'   -0'   NDJUNTA..-  '::
XEECUTION: OF WORKS                  90 to 180 days
|START 11?OFWATE                                5 days
TOTAL TIME: 5 to 8 months
.-.. TECHNICAL -ASSISTANCE ON.
:OPE t,ION ANID AIUNTENANICE TO
H--: JUNTAS BY SENASA



Page I of 7
PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Dispersed Rural Community Progrem
Introduction
1.   Under the previous  two Bank projects SENASA has applied a standard
technological model for water supply, consisting of a deep drilled borehole
fitted with an electric submersible pump, an elevated storage tank, and a
distribution network serving, for the most part, individual lot connections.
This basic model, with some adjustments to optimize costs, will continue to be
applied as the main component of the new Bank project as well. However, it is
recognized that this system is too expensive for use in many communi.ties,
especially the smaller, dispersed rural settlements (generally those below 1,000
inhabitants), including the indigenous population of Paraguay. The fixed costs
are usually too high to allow a reasonable share of the total system cost to be
recovered from the small number of beneficiaries, who typically tend to have
lower capacity to pay than inhabitante of the larger rural settlements. Another
major limitation of the standard model is that it is feasible only in communities
that have electricity. Pumps can be run by diesel or gasoline generators, but
the operating and maintenance costs are much higher.
2.   According to government data, in 1989 there were nearly 560,000 people
living in settlements of under 500 inhabitants, and over 800,000 in communities
with population sizes between 500 and 1500. This represents about one-third of
the total population of the country.
3.   In recognition of the above, and of the very low coverage rates for rural
water supply and sanitation in Paraguay, SENASA will include a special Program
for the Dispersed Rural Communities to develop and implement, initially at a
demonstration level in two Departments, a delivery mechanism for water and
sanitation, based on a series of lower-cost technology options, for communities
which, because of their small size, level of dispersion, and/or low incomes,
cannot afford a conventional water system. To ensure replicability of the
Program, emphasis will be given to establishing a sustainable service delivery
model, based on community management and linked to both public and private
institutions working within each Department.
4.   Because very little work has been done by SENASA in these small communities,
the Program will have a preparation phase, during which the technological options
and service delivery models will be developed. Demonstration projects will then
be implemented in two Departments. Based on the results of these demonstration
activities, an expansion project will be prepared to provide services to other
dispersed rural populations in the rest of the country.
Proeram Components
S.   The Program for Dispersed Rural Communities will last five years.  The
Demonstration Program will have three r.ain components:



Page 2 of 7
a. Program preparation: recruitment and training of personnel, analysis of
sector experiences with dispersed rural populations, and implementation
of specific socio-economic, technical and institutional studies of the
Departments and communities where the demonstration activities will be
undertaken (6-12 months);
b. Implementation of demonstration projects to serve about 20,000 people
in two Departments using community-based approaches and appropriate
technological options, and a service delivery mechanism which clearly
defines the roles of SENASA and other Department-level private and
public institutions;
c. Preparation of follow-up investment programs to provide water and
sanitation services to the dispersed rural communities in other
Departments based on the results of the demonstration activities.
Program Strategv
6.    The design of the Program for Dispersed Communities is based on the concept
of community management of services, the application of lower-cost technologies,
and the establishment of a sustainable service delivery mechanism, that would be
able to replicate the model. The Program would focus on three community types:
those with a population between 500-1000, those between 150-500, and the
dispersed rural with populations of under 150 inhabitants. Based on population
and 3o-io-economic data, the demonstration projects would be implemented in two
Departments: Caaguazu, which has the largest dispersed population and one of the
following Departments: Cordillera, Guiara or Paraguari. In selecting the two
Departments, priority should be given to those with communities that have a high
level of dispersion and lower-income levels, and to the accessibility of the
project area from Asuncion.
7.    The most important criterion for the selection of communities to be
included in this Pr- -am would be their demonstrated interest in improving their
water supply and sat. ation, and a willingness to pay for the improved services.
After a promotion and education campaign, the community would select from a range
of technical options the solution for which it is willing to pay and has the
capacity to operate and maintain.
8.    The levels of service for water supply could include: an optimized version
of the standard system with reduced design standards, including smaller-diameter
drilled wells with electric pumps and public standposts or house connections,
wells (machine drilled, hand-drilled, or hand-dug) with handpump options,
improved rainwater collection systems, and, where technically feasible, spring
catchments with gravity-flow piped systems. The sanitation options would include
primarily on-site options for both excreta and grey water disposal: ventilated
pit latrines, pour-flush water seal latrines, double pit latrines, septic tanks,
and absorption fields and pits.
9.    The Program would build on the experiences of other projects in Paraguay,
and neighboring countries and will benefit from these lessons. A field review
of rural water and sanitation projects will be undertaken during the first phase



Page 3 of 7
of the project, including an analysis of the experiences of the first two Bank
loans, and activities of GTZ, UNICEF, CRS and Peace Corps, Menonites communities
among others.   Specific studies will be carried out in the Program area,
including, for example, a review of traditional methods of water supply provision
and exereta and grey watar disposal, a water quality analysis of these water
supplies, and operating and maintenance problems of existing systems. In terms
of the development of a sustainable service delivery model, the capacity of the
private sector in service delivery at the Department level (including small
contractors and merchants) will be reviewed as well as the role of other
institutioxis, including SENASA.
10.   The Program will rely heavily on field extension workers from SENASA,
teachers, and other institutions working at the community level for the
promotion, health education and training components of the demonstration
projects. These extension and community field workers will receive extensive
training in participatory methodologies and technical issues.  The community
organization model will be based on the very successful "Junta de Saneamiento"
model, implemented under the two previous Bank loans. The private sector will
be stimulated to provide support in the construction of the systems and the sale
of the necessary materials and equipment. SENASA will play a critical role in
providing overall guidance in Program implementation, and would be responsible.
for developing technical standards, training and promotional materials, and
providing financial and technical support to the communities. SENASA will also
be responsible for the documentation and dissemination of the results of the
Program and will receive valuable experience for the implementation of the
follow-up larger scale investment programs.
Financial Strategy
11.   It is expected that the financial policy of the Program for Dispersed
communities will be similar to that adopted by SENASA in the other project
components: the communities will make an 30% contribution to the system cost
before and during construction, in cash or kind, and an additional 301 will be
repaid to SENASA at market interest rates over a period to be determined.
However, the Program will develop specific financial policies during the Program
initiation phase that will consider the socio-economic reality of the target
populations, and ensure that the required level of community contribution will
not exclude any community that wants to participate. The Program will focus on
extending services to the smaller, lower-income communities, and will assist each
community in developing a technical solution and a corresponding financing scheme
that is within their economic reach.  The community will be responslble for
financing all of the system operating and maintenance costs.
Proeram Execution
12.    Execution of the Program will include:
(a)   Training of Program staff and implementation of studies to develop the
implementation model and define the technical optione, their costs, and
financing schemes;



Page 4 of 7
(b)   Establishment of a sustainable service delivery mechanism and a long-
term system maintenance scheme in the two Departments where
demonstration activities are undertaken.
(c)   Development  and application of a social promotion and community
organization methodology designed to involve the users in technology
selection, p-.oject planning and financial management, and to lead to
community managemint of systems.
(d) Establishment of a health education program for the ,mmunities and
field workers, including the production of training macerials.
(e)   Implementation  of a tecnnology  transfer  and  development  effort,
involving the transfer of information to Paraguay and the promotion of
local production of water and sanitation components (e.g. handpumps or
pour-flush toilets). Involvement of the private sector would be
stressed.
(f)   Demonstration project implementation to promote and install lower-cost
water and sanitation facilities, and provide health education and
training to serve about 20,000 people in dispersed rural comm=nities in
two Departments.
(g)   Documentation  and  dissemination  of  the  Program  for  Dispersed
Communities activities and results.
Institutional Coordination
13.  The Program for Disperse4 Communities would be managed by a Program
Implementation Unit attached to the Planning and Monitoring Office of the Water
and Sanitation Directorate of SENASA. This Unit would be staffed by three full-
time SENASA staii: a senior technician assigned from the Planning and Monitoring
Office, an engineer rsaigned from the Technical Department, and an experienced
educator/trainer assigned from the Operations Department. The Program will also
require specific short-term assistance from the various Divisions of SENASA,
especially ..n the implementation of special studies, and for specific technical
assistance.
-14.   The Program will be impleme.ted in a decentralized manner.  Although the
Program would be headquartered at the SENASA's central office in San Lorenzo,
there would also be an implementation office in the city of Colonel Oviedo for
work in the Department of Caaguazu, and another office in the capital of the
second Department. These field offices would be located within or near the actual
field offices of SENASA within the Health Centers of the Ministry of Health. An
appropriate number of Supervisors, Inspectors, and Assistants will have to be
assigned to the Program in the two Departments in which the demonstration
projects will be implemented. Arrangements would be made to avoid interference
with the implementation of the water supply component for the larger communities.



Page 5 of 7
PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Proaram for DLasersed Rural. Communities
-.                                                                              .
Personnel recruited and office established          xx
Personnel trained
Analysis of sector experiences
Specific studies in 2 Doptc.
* socto-ecoomic                                                                - _
* water resources                                                              _
* private sector capacity                                                            b  xxx
Specific sector studies within country
ice ~ ~ ~ 00
Trainin  of eatneDion workers & tea chers
TrrainIn  of smal eontractors                                                  x
Project promotion to commitistls                                                -=
Organitation and trainin  of co_nitiLes 
Eoalth educition im coiniitiss                                                           xx
Deaign of tecbnical and financial optious                                                -Z
Selection of option by caunity
Systm construction (by private sector)                                            -                                  |
Suporvision of construction _
Training In operation and maintenance                                                      x
onitoting and evaluation                                                                       ==        x
Documenoation end diseminatiou                                                                 xx x
Socioecoomc and techbncal studies Ixn
other Departments



Page 6 of 7
PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Ponulation Distrtbution oer Devartment
Commnunites with Lose than 1500 Inhabitants
|Caaguazu            417    206685         251     76709          306        166   129976           783|
Itapua              301    138916         197     58810          299        104    80106           770
Paraguari           219    123103         119     37088          312        100    87015           870
Cordillera          201    119617          93     31449          338        108    88168           816
San Pedro           240    117638         148     46312          313         92    71326           775
|GCuaira            234      96334        181     54587          302         53    41747           788
Central             133      91643         51     16700          327         82    74943           914
Caazapa             185      85121        122     35593          292         63    49528           786
Ccncepcion          137      82501         66     22032          334         71    60469           852
Alto Parana         136      72808         69     22032          319         67    50776           758
Misiones             89      43721         55     17020          309         34    26701           785
Neembucu            105      40117         81     22657          280         24    17460           728
Canindeyu            98      39802         71     20060          283         27    19742           731
Ammbay               39      17259         27      7754          287         12     9505           792
2534 112762651       1531    468803                    1003   807462
Note:   Specific date per Department does not exist for the dispersed rural population (settlements
of less than 150 people). However, this is estimated to be 208,000 for the country.
Source: SENASA, data collected in 1985



PAItAGUA!
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Program for Disaereed Rural Communlties
Organizational Structure
-.Water:::i. $n*-
.Di  :tocj 
..r --.--:..:
F-



PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Proarar
Purpose.    To strengthen the capacity of SENASA and the Juntas to deliver
sustainable water and sanitation services in an effective manner. The immediate
objectives, outputs and activities are the following:
Obiective 1.       To establish a planning and management system for the Water and
Sanitation Directorate of SENASA, through the development of work programming,
reporting, budgeting, and monitoring and evaluation functions.
Output 1.1 To establish, staff, and train the Office of Planning and
Monitoring througlL the following activities:
(a)   establish and implement methods and formats for preparing short and
long term work plans for the Water and Sanitation Directorate,
(b)   establish and implement methods and formats for yearly budgeting,
budget monitoring, and multi-year budget forecasting, and
Output 1.2 To establish data bases for monitoring and evaluating
exibiAng Juntas and systems as well as to create new Juntas and systems
through the following activities.
(a)   establish and put into use a data base on existing Juntas and water
and sanitation facilities, along with a reporting system for
updeting it, and
(b)   establish and put into use a data base on new Juntas and new
facilities, with a corresponding reporting system for updating it.
Obiective 2.       To improve the technical capabilities of SENASA and the Juntas
in the areas of project design, construction supervision, and operation and
maintenance.
OutDut 2.1 To optimize design standards for water and sanitation to
reduce costs and make systems more affordable by:
(a)   assessing appropriateness of design and cost parameters used so far,
with respect to cost optimization and affordability, and
(b)   compiling and disseminating updated parameters.
Output 2.2 To improve construction supervision by:



practices, performance and maintenance of exist wells, (ii)
preparing and conducting in-service training and (iii) implementing
other studies and recommendations.
Outgut 2.3 Improvements in the operation and maintenance of systems by:
(a)   conducting an evaluation of operation and maintenance and preparing
recommendations on how to improve it through actions of the users,
Juntas, SENASA field staff, and SENASA central staff through the:
(i) preparation of manuals for the various groups mentioned above,
and (ii) preparation and conduction of training courses for the
various groups mentioned above.
Output 2.4 Implementation of a water conservation program by:
(a)   evaluating water consumption and losses of a representative sample
of Juntas, and
(b)   providing technical assistance and education program for Juntas on
the advantages of using water meters, controlling losses, and
levying charges based on actual consumption.
Output 2.5 Implementation of a grey water disposal program through by:
(a)   evaluating how sullage is disposed of in a representative sample of
Juntas and determine the extent to which this is a problem, and
(b)   providing a technical assistance and education program on the
advantages of installing absorption pits for grey water.
Oo1ective 3:      To improve SENASA's capabilities to carry out training, social
promotion, and health education, and to implement programs in all of these areas
directed to SENASA's own staff, the Juntas, and users.
OutDut 3.1 Training of the staff of the Training and Education Division
in modern participatory training methods and equipped to carry out
training  activities  effectively.    Preparing  overall work plan  for
training, including technical, financial, and social aspects and targeting
SENASA staff, Juntas, and beneficiaries. Conducting in-service training
for SENASA staff in the use of participatory training methods.
Output 3.2 Implementing training courses for SENASA's central office
staff and field staff (Supervisors, Inspectors, and Auxiliaries) by
designing courses and preparing training materials, through:
(a)   conducting in-ssrvice training, and
(b)   coordinating participation of SENASA staff in courses and seminars
abroad.



Output 3.3 Implementing training courses for members and employees of the
Juntas by:
(a)   designing courses and prepare training materials, and
(b)   conducting training courses and workshops.
Output 3.4 Implementation by field staff of improved methods for the
promotion of community participation and the organization of Juntas by:
(a)   the preparation of new guidelines or manuals and training material.
as part of 3.2,
(b)   training of field staff as part of 3.2, and
(c)   carrying out the new promotion program with supervision by the
central office.
Output 3.5 Implementation of improved health education programs for new
and existing Juntas through the preparation of a new strategy and new
materials for health education by :
(a)   conducting training of field staff as part of 3.2, and
(b)   carrying out the new health education program with supervision by
the central office.
(c)   organizing twinning arrangements between succesful Juntas and new
Juntas.
Obiective 4.      To establish new financial accounting procedures for the Water
and Sanitation Directorate and to strengthen the capacity of the Juntas for
financially sound and sustainable management of their water and sanitation
facilities.
Output 4.1 To improve the accounting system and procedures and install a
financial monitoring system for the Water and Sanitation Directorate,
including a system for receiving annual financial reports from the Juntas
and consolidating them into the Directorate's financial statements.
Output 4.2 To equipped the Juntas with improved capacities for financial
management by designing and Implementing a training program for SENASA
field staff in basic financial concepts and financial management, as part
of 3.2. in order to:
(a)   review and standardize the recommended accounting system for the
Juntas, and



(b)   designg ar.d conducts a training program for Junta members and Junta
staff in charge of accounting, financial management, setting charges
and tariffs, billing and collection, and management of repair funds.
Obiective 5.       To develop, through a demonstration program, a strategy for
delivering water and sanitation services to the smaller, lower-income rural
settlements including indigenous population3 by offering a range of low-cost
technologies that are affordable and easily maintained.
Output 5. 1 Ca:ry out an assessment of previous experience with lower-cost
water and sanitation approaches and detailed plan prepared for a
demonstration program based on offering a range of options to potential
users by:
(a)   conducting studies on existing practices and previous experiences
with lower-cost rural water and sanitation solutions, including
water quality, consumption patterns, drainage, and private sector
involvement in Paraguay and neighboring countries, and
(b)   establishing the detailed strategy of the demonstration program,
including geographic areas of implementation, criteria for
participation of communities, methods of promotion, technology
optiors,  institutional  arrangements,  financial  policies,  and
monitoring and evaluation approach.
Output 5.2 Training of SENASA's staff to carry out the demonstration
program and documentation of sector experiences through the:
(a)   development of guidelines, manuals, and training materials, and
(b)   conducting in-service training.
Output 5.3 Implementation of the Demonstration Program by:
(a)   the transfer and application of alternative technologies,
(b)   social promotion for community organization, and health education,
(b)   monitoring and evaluation based on participatory methods, and
(c)   the installation, operation and maintenance of water and sanitation
facilities, promoting the role of the -private sector in service
delivery.
Output 5.4 Documentation of the demonstration program and prepar&tion of
the follow-ap investment programs through the following activitiest
(a)   undertaking studies in other Departments of the country including
indigenous populations and preparation of investment programs,



(b)   preparing case studies and evaluation reports of demonstration
activitiee, and
(c)   conducting national seminars and workshop on the results of the
demonstration program.



PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUP?LY AND SANITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGREZ
Time Table of Activities
A C T I V I T Y                                    DATE OF
COMPLIANCE
1. Prepare formats for short and long terms plans for the Water and
Sanitation Directorate and implement such plans thereafter.                Dec. 15, 1992
2. Design detailed formats for preparing short and long term work
plans for the Water Directorate and implement them thereafter.             Dec.15, 1992
3. Design and implement thereafter a data base on new and existing
Juntas on their water and sanitation fa6ilities, including a reporting
system for updating it.                                                    Dec.15, 1992
4. Assess appropriateness of service levels, design standards, cost
parameters used until now, with respect to codt optimization and
affordability                                                              may-15, 1992
5. Evaluate construction methods for the various components of the
water and sanitation facilities and prepare recommendations for their
improvement                                                                May.L5, 1993
6. Prepare manuals for construction supervision of the various
components of the water and sanitation systems                             Jun.15, 1992
7. Evaluate the administration, operation and maintenance of the water
and sanitation services of the existing Juntas and propose
recommendations for their improvement                                      Jun.15, 1992
8. Prepare a detailed program to analyze water consumption of a
representative sample of Juntas and carry out it thereafter                Dec.15, 1992
9. Prepare a technical assistance and education program for water
conservation, including the use of water meters and prepare a
timetable for its Implementation                                           Jun.15, 1993
10. Prepare a detailed program to evaluate sewage disposal problems on
a representative sample of Junta. and implement it thereafter              Mar.15, 1993



11. Prepare a technical assistance and educational program on the
advantage of installing absorption pits for grey water, or the use of
small bore sewage collectors for final sewage disposal and implement
it thereafter                                                              Jun.15, 1993
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ pi-             '*-,
12. Prepare a training program for SENASA staff in modern
%4waxttcipatory training methods and equipped the Training and Education
Division to carry out training activities effectively. Training
courses should be designed for SENASA's central office staff and field
staff (supervisors, inspectors, auxiliaries). Courses should include
in-service training and courses and seminars abroad. Present a time-
table of such program and start implementing it thereafter                 Apr.15, 1992
13.  Implementation by SENASA's field staff of improved methods (new
guidelines or manuals and training materials) for the promotion of
community participation and organization of the Juntas in new
communities                                                                Mar.15, 1992
14.  Prepare a training course program for members and administrative
employees of the Juntas. The program should include the designing of
courses and workshops and preparation of training materials including
guidelines and manuals                                                     Mar.15, 1992
15. Implementation of health education programs for new and existing
Junta members by SENASA's health inspectors                                Jun.15, 1993
16. Organize a twinning arrangement program between successful and new,
Juntas and start its implementation thereafter                             Jun.15, 1993
17. To establish new financial accounting procedures for the Water and
Sanitation birectorate to improve the accounting system and procedures
including a system for receiving annual financial reports from the
Juntas                                                                     Mar.15, 1993
18. To rev'.ew and standardize the recommended accounting systems for
the Juntas and design and conduct a training program for Junta members
and administrators in charge of administration and financial and
commercial matters                                                         Mar.15, 1993
flSPERSED RURA_L_P___A
19. To carry out an assessment program of previous experiences with
lower-cost rural water and sanitation solutions for dispersed rural
population and settlements in the country and neighboring countries        Oct.15, 1993
20. To design and carry out a demonstration program for implementing
lower-cost rural water and sanitation solutions to the dispersed rural
population                                                                 Apr.15, 1993



21* To develop guidelines, manuals, training materials end methods for
social promotion for the transfer and application of appropriate low
cost technologioe for water and sanitation services to the dispersed
rural population                                                          Ju1.15, 1993
22. To design and start the execution of a program for the provision
of water and sanitation services to the dispersed rural population for
about 20,000 inhabitants.                                                Oct..5, 1993
23. To preparo a future project, ausomilating exporiences from the
execution of this Project.                                                Sep.30, 1995



Page 1 of 3
PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANrTATION PROJECT
Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation
1.   The following guidelines should be used by SENASA in its reports to the
World Bank.
?roject Progress
2.   This section applies to all components:   water systems through house
connections, sanitation, water to dispersed populations and institutional
strengthening.
(a) Investment, programming and/or physical targets accomplished during
the reporting period, separately for each component
(b) A comparison of the actual progress of implementation at the end of
the reporting period w. :h the original forecast of progress in the
Staff Appraisal Report
(c) Actual or contemplated material deviations form the original plans or
schedules and the annual action plan
(d) Other changes, events or conditions which would materially delay
implementation or increase its costs;
(e) The expected dates of completion of principal physical elements of the
project, such as well drilling and equipment and civil works
(f) Reports on tne quality of construction by force account
(g) Staff trained per skill type (total man days)
Financial Proaress
(a) Schedule of actual and estimated cost estimates and disbursements
during the reporting period
(b) Comparison of actual progress at the end of the reporting period with
the original forecast of progress in the Staff Appraisal Report
(c) List of disbursement applications and payment certificates
(d) List of all contracts with all basic data and showing payment progress
(e) Record of funds required for maintenance of water supply schemes and
a schedule of collections by the juntas



Page 2 of 3
(f) SENASA's annual audited financial statement
3.    SENASA  would  include  the  following  monitoring  indicators   for  project
supervision in their annual reports:
(a)   Indicators related to water system completed:
;EARs Y1993           1994        1995       11996         1997        1998
A) Water System to 170 Communities                                                                       I
CompletedJ      26          34           43          34          25           8
Accumulatedl       26   j      60   j    103           137         162        170
Number of House Connections                                                                           l
Completedl  6,600   1  8.800         11,000       8.800   ( 6,600         2,200
Accumulatedl  6,600   | 15,400   | 26,400   | 35,200   141,800   | 44,000
Estimated Population Served
Incrementall 34,500       46,000       57,500      46,000      34,500      11,500
Accumulatedj 34,500       80,500      138,000   j 184,000   1218,500   1230,000
B) Sa.iitation to 50,000 Families                                                                       l
l~Completedl  7500                            10,000   1 12.500   j 10,000   |  7,500          2,500
l                   Accumulated   7,500        17,500      30,000      40,000   147,500        50,000
C) Water to Dispersed Ponulation - Population Served I                              3
|             ~~~~~Incrementall  3,0~00      ~4,000    5,0         4,000       3,000       1,000
Accumulated_ 3,000         _7,000    112,000       16,000      19,000      20,000
(b) Indicators Related to SENASA - Water and Sanitation Directorate:
.YIAR i  1992    1993    1994    1995    1996 I 1991i
A) staff executing water systems and sanitation   188          188      188      188    188   |188
projects
B) Field staff for water and sanitation systems   200          210      220      230    230   1230



(c) Financial Performance Indigators:
:-- Year :1993 - 1994 1:--:995  .1996   1997   1998
A)   Ratio of salaries to cash operating    60.8%  60.8%  60.8%  60.8%  60.8%  60.8%
expenses (1).
B)   Ratio of own resources to construction  1.4%   3.0%   5.4%  10.0%  15.9%  25.8%
expenditures (2).
C)   Ratio of subsidy to cost of systems    40.0%  40.0%  40.0%  40.0*  40.0%  40.0%
transferred to Juntas (3).
D)   Average rate of interest over inflation    1.0%   7.0%   7.0%   7.0%   7.0%  7.0%
on loans to juntas (4).
E)   Ratio of principal in arrears to       1.7%   2.0%   2.5%   2.8%   3.1%  3.4%
average bal.ance of loans (5).
F)   Average cost per connection (Thousands  530    530    530    530    530   530
Guaranies) (6).
G)   sENASAs Operating cost per Junta        8.73   8.15   7.66   7.23   6.85  6.52
(millions Guaranies) (7). _I
(1)  Total  salaries  including overtine and year-end bonus divided by
operating exper.tes (excluding delreciation).
(2)  Own resources include sales of services and products, interest and
loan repayment from Juntas; construction expenditures include the ones
in project as well as other SENASA investment for water supply
activities.
(3)  Calculated with the amount of subsidy for the systems transferred
during the year and the total cost of those systems.
(4)  Average interest is calculated with the annual total interest from
loans to Juntas accrued included in the project divided by the average
of the balance of those loans at the beginning and year-end.
(5)  Amount of the principal of loans to Juntas included in the project not
current divided by the average balance of loans to those Juntas at the
beginning and year-end.
(6)  Cost of systemP transferred during the year divided by the number of
connections of those systems (^-pressed in Guaranies of February 1992)
(7)  Annua: operating cost  (excluding depreciation)  of SENASA's Water
Directorate divided by the number of Juntas operating and in process
of creation (expressed in Guaranies of February 1992).



PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Quarterly
Bank Fiscal Year                 Disbursement             Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending              (US$ Millions)    (USS Million)   (% of Total)
FY 1993
September 30, 1992                     0.3                 0.3                1.3%
December 31, 1992                      0.4                 0.7                3.0%
March 31, 1993                         0.5                 1.2                5.2%
June 30, 1993                          0.6                 1.8                7.8%
FY 1994
September 30, 1993                     0.7                 2.5               10.9%
December 31, 1993                      0.7                 3.2               13.9%
March 31, 1994                         1.0                 4.2               18.3%
June 30, 1994                          1.0                 5.2               22.6%
FY 1995
September 30, 1994                     1.2                 6.4               27.8%
December 31, 1Q94                      1.2                 7.6               33.0%
March 31, 1995                         1.3                 8.9               38.7%
June 30, 1995                          1.4                10.3               44.8%
NY 1996
September 30, 1995                     1.5                11.8               51.3%
December 31, 1995                      1.5                13.3               57.8%
March 31, 1996                         1.3                14.6               63.5%
June 30, 1996                          1.1                15.7               75.5%
FY 1997
September 30, 1996                     1.0                16.7               72.6%
December 31, 1996                      1.3                18.0               78.3%
March 31, 1997                         1.0                19.0               82.6%
June 30, 1997                          1.0                20.0               87.0%
LX 1998
September 30, 1997                     0.9                20.9               90.9%
December 31, 1997                      0.8                21.7               94.3%
March 30, 1998                         0.7                22.4               97.4%
June 30, 1998                          0.6                23.0              100.0%



ANNEX 12
PARAGUAY
THIRD RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Revolving Fund
Basic Terms of Reference
Obiectives
1.   Presently less than 10% of the population in Paraguay has access to potable
water.  In general it is difficult to finance water and sanitation systems in the
rural areas,  therefore it is important to develop financial sources for the
construction of water supply systems to expand the low water coverage to the
rural population of rural Paraguay. To this purpose it is proposed to study all
feasible alternatives to adequately use all financial resources.
2.   The law creating SENASA (Law No. 369 of December 1, 1992), specifies in its
article No. 40 the creation of a Revolving Fund (Fund) to finance water supply
and sanitation systems in rural areas of Paraguay. Due to several reasons such
Fund has been never in operation. Among others, one of the financial resources
of the Fund is the repayment of the loans from SENASA to the Juntas.  These
repaymants are being made by the Juntas to SENASA which deposits them at the
Central Bank. Central Bank regulations determine that deposit accounts at such
bank do not bear any interest rate and consequently such deposits loose their
value due to inflation. Also, SENASA in order to use its account at the Central
Bank, is required to ask for authorization from the Ministry of Finance, thus
creating inefficiencies.
3.   The objective of the study is to establish the legal framework, regulations
and mechanisms to efficiently channel all financial resources possible to be used
in the financing of rural water supply and sanitation systems. The study should
be conducted by external consultants to SENASh with international experience in
revolving funds for water or other public services.
Scope of the Study
4.   The study has the following scopes:
(a)  To study the reasons that has not permitted the development and
operation of the Revolving Fund specified in Law No. 369. To propose
the solution3 for the establishment and use of the Revolving Fund
including technical and legal modifications.
(b)  To study the feasibility that repayments made by the Juntas to SENASA
be deposited in a specific account (Account) within the Juntas to be
exclusivaly use in the financing of new communities or expansions of
existing systems within the same geographic district under specific
regulations. The study would recommend the necessary legal framework
so that the Account will be exclusively used for rural water supply.
The study should also establish the technical and financial criteria
for the use of the Account to ensure its best use.



B O L I V I A                                                                  /           /
|A M t R    A
-70   s,_  ._ 5    ~             C   H  A  C  0                                                                                  S r            7,,
AOAADo.,kUcMAAI / AR 51050 DORM|       Q
A L TO 
S  '{sii \                      8         ~~~~~~~~~~P A R A G U A Y    J
N UVA        ASUNCiON                                                                   B      R     A      Z       I    L
e-~~~~~R\ w\s~~~~~~~~   s   r         R  N   >>^<
APPN         BOGUERNR                      / G    A
\                 I        <                            : ~~~~~~~~~CONCEPCION 0        P l
77'   Wc~~~~~~~~E:kxo~~~~t    C     H  A   IC    O)_>t                                 V        ; /    t\o
/ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P R E 5. D E N T E              A   H Y E S \\\~
AV ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-
7.'                                                                                                                               -      1. ._., \  -t DoOR    ,-/
SAN   PED RO            CANINDEYU
FA   xT r\R
AA
zu'Y
< ~         ~~~                           CA    U A,'                    ,S
PARAGUAY                                    GU Y B
-    81TUMINOUS SURFACED ROADS                                                             'N,                   CRMRDBEAEAT7 
38TF MN.1J  DRAFACED ROADS UNDER CONSTUCION              CE  .T R'    PA                                      NA
_  GRAVEL I SARTE SU;ACED ROADS                                    -                ,        '-,--k             -        I
-  VAWAYS                                                           .       V,
25                    -- -RIVERS                                                             S      \ A.j
-OIINTRY REGCN DrM9N R)
-  DEPARTMENT EOUNDAIES                                             ,g    RAO7.-
_   NTERNATONAL UOUANDARIES                                                                 Z C  i> C A 7 A GA
9      <   -  fN                             A Ptf,                   z '
ASE)>f\-F  <           N9<> r~y,   2 A>    T A P
_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _          1        .                                                                                           >       k4, } t
~~~~~_                                                                             .1. . _



