Page  1
January 20, 1995
Dr. Orlando Bareiro Aguilera
Minister
Ministry of Finance
Chile 128
Asunción, Paraguay 
                 Re:
Loan No. 3519-PA
(Third Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
Second Amendment to Loan Agreement                
Dear Minister Bareiro:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated September 19, 1992 between the 
Republic of Paraguay (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), as amended.
In response to SENASA's request dated December 15, 1994 to: (a) lower the 
minimum amount to be contributed by each Junta
 (when the amount of the total 
contribution of such Junta to the Investment is lowered to not less than 40% of 
the Investment as mentioned in paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 6 to the Loan 
Agreement); and (b) restructure certain of the activities mentioned in Schedule 
8 to this Agreement, including the extension of the completion date of such 
activities, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby agrees to amend 
the Loan Agreement as follows:
1. Paragraphs 2 (b) through (d) of Schedule 6 are hereby amended to read 
as follows:
"(b)  (i)
Where a Junta
's total contribution to the Investment amounts 
to: (A) not less than 60% of the Investment, such Junta
 shall 
make an initial contribution of not less than 30% of the 
Investment during the period in which the works for the 
applicable Subproject are being carried out; and (B) not less 
than 40% of the Investment (as provided in paragraph (a) 
above), such Junta
 shall make an initial contribution of not 
less than 25% during the period in which the works for the 
applicable Subproject are being carried out.
 (ii)
The Junta
's initial contribution (as the case may be) may be 
made, subject to (iii) below, in the form of cash or provision 
of labor and materials, or both.
(iii)
The cash portion of the Junta
's initial contribution where a 
Junta
's total contribution to the Investment amounts to: (A) 
not less than 60% of the Investment shall consist of a down 
payment to SENASA which shall amount to not less than 15% of 
the Investment; and (B) not less than 40% of the Investment 
shall consist of a down payment to SENASA which shall amount to 
not less than 10% of the Investment.
(c)
Payment of the down payment to SENASA referred to in 
subparagraph (b) (iii) above shall be made as follows: (i) a 
minimum of not less than 5% as a condition for the commencement 
of the works to be carried out; and (ii) the remaining balance 
Page  2
during the construction period.
(d)
Where a Junta
's total contribution to the Investment amounts 
to: (i) not less than 60% of the Investment, the remaining 30% 
of the Junta
's total contribution to the Investment shall be 
provided by SENASA to such Junta
 in a form of a loan; and (ii) 
not less than 40% of the Investment, the remaining 15% of the 
Junta
's total contribution to the Investment shall be provided 
by SENASA to such Junta
 in a form of a loan.".
2.
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 6 is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"3. SENASA' s total contribution to the Investment shall be 
equivalent to up to : (a) 40% of the cost of the Investment (where a 
Junta
's total contribution to the Investment amounts to not less than 
60% of the Investment); and (b) 60% of the cost of the Investment 
(where a Junta
's total contribution to the Investment amounts to not 
less than 40% of the Investment), which shall be in the form of a grant 
to the respective Junta
.".
3.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"4. The Junta
's contribution: (a) referred to in paragraph 2(d)(i) 
above shall be repaid by such Junta
 to SENASA in equal monthly 
installments with a final maturity ranging from 5 to 10 years from the 
date of the applicable Contrato
, including a grace period equivalent to 
the Subproject's construction period plus three months; and (b) 
referred to in paragraph 2(d)(ii) above shall be repaid by such Junta
to SENASA in equal monthly installments with a final maturity of up to 
15 years. In the repayment of the contributions mentioned herein, each 
installment shall bear a variable interest rate on the unpaid balance 
of such contribution, plus a reasonable penalty interest to cover 
defaults in the payments of such installments, such interest rate to be 
equal to the interest rate to loans, in the Borrower's currency, made 
by commercial banks to companies, as published monthly by the BCP in 
its bulletin, less six percentage points.".
4.
Paragraphs 1(a) through (e), (g), (h), (j), (k), (q), (s), (t), (v) and 
(w) and paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 8 are hereby amended to read as set forth in the annex to this 
Amendment Letter.
      This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which 
shall be an original and shall become effective on the date in which the Bank 
has received one fully executed original of such Amendment Letter. Please 
confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating the two 
counterparts of this Amendment Letter. Upon your confirmation, please return 
one fully executed original to us.
Sincerely,
Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Page  3
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By___________________________
    Authorized representative
Date:________________________
    Authorized Representative
Page  4
ANNEX
"1. Description of Activities
Previously
listed in
Completion Date
Loan 
Agreement
not later than
as 
subparagraph
(a) Elaboration of short and long-term investment plans for      
July 31, 1995
(a) and (b)
water and sanitation in rural areas
(c) A design of a technical data base to monitor and evaluate
July 31, 1996
(c)
the Juntas
, including the implementation of such data base
(d) Assessment to determine the appropriateness of water and
August 31, 
1995
(d)
sanitation levels of services and design standards for such
services with respect to their cost and affordability by the
Users
(e) Evaluation of the construction methods for constructing
September 30
(e)
water and sanitation systems and preparation of the
1995
recommendations concerning the improvement of such methods
(g) Evaluation of the administration, operation and maintenance
December 31,
(g) and (i)
of the water and sanitation services of existing Juntas
 and
1995
preparation of the recommendations concerning the improvement
of such services
(h) Preparation and implementation of a program to analyze water
December 31,
(h)
consumption of the Juntas
1995
(j) Evaluation of technical solutions for sewage disposal of
October 31
(j) and (k)
existing Juntas
 and preparation of a program for sewage disposal
1995
for the benefit of the population referred to in Part B of the
Project
(q) Establish a new financial accounting system and procedures
December 31,     
(q)
for SENASA's Water and Sanitation Directorate, including a
1995
system to enable SENASA to obtain annual financial reports from
the Juntas
(s) Carry out an assessment of previous experiences with lower-
October 31,     
(s), (t) and 
cost rural water and sanitation solutions for dispersed rural
1995
(v)
population and settlements in the Borrower's territory and abroad
and preparation of a program for the benefit of 20,000 dispersed rural 
population as mentioned in Part A.2 of the Project
Page  5
(w) Present to the Bank, for its comment, a study to prepare a
September 30,     
(w)
future project for the expansion of the rural water and sanitation
1995
sector
2. The implementation of: (i) the plans referred to in subparagraph (a)
above; (ii) the program or programs referred to in subparagraphs (g),
(l) and (p) above shall be carried out by the Borrower,through
SENASA, immediately after the completion date indicated for such activity 
in this Schedule.".
