Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3519 PA
(Third Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 19, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3519 PA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 19, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
Page  2
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BCP" means Banco Central del Paraguay, the Borrower's Central Bank;
 
(b)
"Contrato" means a contract entered into, or to be entered into, between 
SENASA and a Junta for purposes of carrying out a Subproject, as required by Section 
3.03 of this Agreement;
(c)
"Implementation Program" means SENASA's program to be prepared by the 
Borrower, through SENASA, in coordination with the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the hiring of adequate and proper staff to carry out its activities in 
accordance with SENASA's Law;
(d)
"Junta" means any of the Juntas de Saneamiento established in accordance 
with Chapter VI of SENASA's Law and the Regulations, which has entered or proposes to 
enter into a Contrato
with SENASA;
(e)
"Procurement Program" means the annual program to be prepared by the 
Borrower, through SENASA, in coordination with the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the procurement of works and goods under the Project, referred to in 
Sections 3.04 and 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Regulations" means the Borrower's Decree No. 8910 dated September 10, 
1974, as amended to the date of this Agreement, which regulates the creation and 
functions of any Junta;
(g)
"Revolving Fund" means the Fondo Rotatorio de SENASA, established with 
any of the proceeds referred to in Article 40 of SENASA's Law for the purposes set 
forth in Article 41 of such law;
(h)
"SENASA" means Servicio Nacional de Saneamiento Ambiental, the Borrower's 
National Environmental Sanitation Service, established by SENASA's Law;
(i)
"SENASA's Law" means the Borrower's Law 369/72, dated December 1, 1972, 
as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Subproject" means the construction of a water supply and sanitation 
system to be approved by SENASA in accordance with the criteria set forth in Section 
3.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(l)
"Users" means usuarios, as such term is defined in Article 7 of the 
Regulations.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-three million dollars 
($23,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the BCP on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period,  calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 
and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Director of SENASA is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Page  4
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SENASA, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as  needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall:
(a)
Prepare all Subprojects included under Parts A and B of the Project. Each 
such Subproject shall include a detailed engineering design based on the technical 
standards set forth in the Annex to Schedule 6 to this Agreement, a socio-economic 
report, and a cost estimate for investments required for such Subproject (including 
the estimated operating cost and the estimated
contribution of the applicable Junta).
(b)
Select and approve only Subprojects that at least meet the following 
criteria: (i) the Subproject has an estimated construction cost per User of less than 
$110, in April 1992 prices;
(ii) hydrogeologic studies demonstrating the possibility of developing, easily and 
economically reliable sources of water, have been completed; and (iii) a Junta has 
been established.
Section 3.03. (a) Prior to the initiation of the works under any Subproject, the 
Borrower, through SENASA, shall enter into a Contrato with the Junta corresponding to 
the village where such
Subproject will be located.
(b)
Each Contrato shall be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank 
including, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SENASA, 
shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under each Contrato in such 
manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) comply with its obligations under 
this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
(d)
The Borrower, through SENASA, shall not change or fail to enforce any 
such Contrato.
(e)
For purposes of this Section, the Borrower shall take all necessary steps 
for the expeditious granting of legal personality to each Junta as and when it is so 
requested by SENASA
in accordance with Article 15 of the Regulations.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through SENASA: (a) starting not later than December 
31, 1993, and thereafter once a year until the Project has been completed, present to 
the Bank, the Procurement Program for the upcoming calendar year; and (b) carry out 
each of the Procurement Programs (including those referred to in Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement) in accordance with the terms thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, through SENASA, shall prepare taking into 
account the Bank's comments on the study carried out by the Borrower concerning its 
water and sanitation sector, and present to the Bank for its review, starting on 
December 31, 1993, and thereafter, by not later than December 31 of each year during 
the implementation of the Project, an action plan for investments in the rural water 
and sanitation sector.
(b)
The Borrower, through SENASA, shall implement promptly the action plans 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause SENASA to: (a) maintain, promptly after 
the recommendations of the study referred to in Section 3.15 of this Agreement have 
been approved by the Bank, its Revolving Fund in an interest bearing account in a 
commercial bank; and (b) manage such Revolving Fund in accordance with such 
recommendations.
Page  5
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions set forth in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower, through SENASA, shall carry out Parts C.1 and C.5 of the 
Project, in accordance with the timetable set forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall carry out the Implementation 
Program in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.09. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall: (a) starting not later than 
March 31, 1993, carry out an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to settle all the 
loans made by SENASA to
the Juntas which are currently in default.
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall: (a) review, jointly with the 
Bank, by not later than September 30 of each year, starting in September 1993, the 
Juntas' capacity to repay the loans referred to in paragraph 2 (d) of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement made or to be made by SENASA to the Juntas under an applicable 
Subproject; and (b) if as a result of such review, the Bank determines that the 
Juntas' capacity to repay such loans is not satisfactory, the Borrower, through 
SENASA, shall take all such remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be 
necessary for
the efficient repayment of such loans.
Section 3.11. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall: (a) review, jointly with the 
Bank, in the month of September of 1993 the progress in the execution of Parts C.1 and 
C.5 of the Project; (b)
if, as a result of such review, the Bank determines that the progress in the execution 
of Parts C.1 and C.5 of the Project is not satisfactory, take all such remedial 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of 
Parts C.1 and C.5 of the Project.
Section 3.12. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through SENASA, shall: (a) prepare and present to 
the Bank, by not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year, starting in June 
1993, a report, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, concerning the progress in the 
implementation of the Project, which shall contain, inter alia, monitoring indicators 
and execution targets satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) take promptly all actions 
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary to enable the Borrower, through 
SENASA, to achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.13. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through SENASA, shall carry out jointly with the 
Bank a mid-term review, not later than November 30, 1994, on the progress in the 
execution of the Project, the achievement of the objectives of the Project, and 
SENASA's financial performance in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
If, as a result of the review referred to in paragraph (a) above, the 
Bank determines that the progress in the execution of the Project, or in the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project, or SENASA's financial performance is not 
satisfactory, the Borrower shall promptly take all such remedial action, satisfactory 
to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project, 
SENASA's satisfactory financial performance or the achievement of the objectives of 
the Project.
Section 3.14. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.15. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall: (a) present to the Bank for 
its approval, not later than March 31, 1993, the recommendations of the study included 
in Part C.1 (iv) of the
Project, to develop the regulations and procedures of the Revolving Fund; and (b) 
implement such recommendations not later than May 31, 1993.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall cause SENASA to maintain at all times its new 
organizational structure, substantially in the form described in Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Page  6
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through SENASA, shall maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and separate accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, including SENASA's financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of SENASA's financial statements for such year as 
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall audit, once a year the 
accounts and other financial records and statements of each Junta that has a 
Subproject financed by the Loan, such audit to be of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower, through SENASA, shall take, or cause each Junta 
to take, all necessary steps to set the tariffs for water supply and sanitation and 
connection charges to be charged by each Junta to the Users of water supply and 
sanitation systems constructed under a Subproject, at such a level that shall permit 
such Junta to cover:
(i)
all operating expenses;
 
(ii)
payments of principal of, and interest and other charges on, any 
debt owed to SENASA; and
(iii)
an adequate provision for major repairs and replacement of assets.
 
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the phrase "all operating expenses" means all administrative, 
Page  7
commercial and operating costs of such Junta which are reasonably 
connected with the operation of the water supply and sanitation 
systems in question, including maintenance costs thereof (other 
than the provision referred to in (a) (iii) above) and taxes (if 
any) but excluding payments of principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, any debt owed by such Junta to SENASA;
(ii)
the phrase "any debt owed by such Junta to SENASA" means the debt 
owed by such Junta to SENASA in respect of the construction of the 
water supply and sanitation systems in question under a 
Subproject, to be paid to SENASA on the terms and conditions 
established in the applicable Contrato; and 
(iii)
the phrase "a provision for major repairs and replacement of 
assets" means the funds reserved by each Junta to make major 
repairs to, and acquire assets to be replaced in (comprising spare 
parts and supplies), the water supply and sanitation systems in 
question, but other than such repairs and replacement of assets as 
required for purposes of the routine  maintenance of such water 
supply and sanitation systems.
(c)
The Borrower, through SENASA, shall review with each Junta, at least 
annually, the level of tariffs referred to in paragraph (a) above, and shall ensure 
that, promptly after such
review, each Junta makes any adjustment in such level of tariffs required for purposes 
of such paragraph (a).
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SENASA's Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the 
operations or the financial condition of SENASA or the ability of the Borrower, 
through SENASA, to carry out the Project;
(b)
the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SENASA;
(c)
the Regulations shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of: (i) the Borrower to 
implement, through SENASA, the Project; or (ii) any Junta to carry out the applicable 
Subproject;
(d)
the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any Junta or for the divestment of 
any of the functions or powers vested in any such Junta which are necessary for the 
efficient carrying out of a Subproject;
(e)
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that a Junta will be able to perform any of its obligations under the 
applicable Contrato; or
(f)
a Junta shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under a 
Contrato.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days or more after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; or
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) or (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  8
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions that:
(a)
Procurement Programs for the calendar years 1992 and 1993 have been 
presented to the Bank; and
(b)
samples of standard bidding documents and procedures, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the procurement of goods and works under the Project have been presented to 
the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date December 18, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Ministro 
de Hacienda of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Chile 128
Asuncion, Paraguay
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Ministerio de
44329
   Hacienda
Asuncion, Paraguay
With copies to:
SENASA
Mariscal Estigarribia esq.
   Tacuary
Asuncion, Paraguay
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By /s/ Juan Jose Diaz Perez
Page  9
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works                      5,500,000        85%
(2) Goods                     15,900,000        100% of foreign
                                                and local (ex-
                                                factory cost) ex-
                                                penditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Consultants'               1,600,000        100%
    services and
    training
         TOTAL                23,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after October 31, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve rural population productivity and 
health through the expansion of access to potable water and sanitation facilities and 
to strengthen the institutional capacity of SENASA and the Juntas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  10
Part A:
Water Supply
 
Subprojects for:
1.
Construction of about 170 water supply systems to benefit about 230,000 
inhabitants in rural communities with concentrated populations that have more than 80 
inhabitants per hectare.
2.
Construction of water supply systems to benefit about 20,000 inhabitants in 
dispersed rural communities and indigenous settlements.
Part B:
Sanitation
 
Subprojects for the construction and improvements of excreta disposal to benefit 
about 250,000 inhabitants in rural communities with concentrated population that have 
more than 80 inhabitants per hectare, as well as in dispersed rural communities and 
indigenous settlements.
Part C:
Strengthening of SENASA and the Juntas
 
1.
Technical assistance (including the acquisition of the necessary goods therefor) 
to SENASA through a program consisting of: (i) services of long- and short-term 
consultants; (ii) courses and
seminars including a special training program abroad for SENASA's field, 
administrative and financial personnel, including sanitary inspectors; (iii) training 
through the use of specific equipment and instruments; and (iv) studies to develop the 
regulations and procedures for SENASA's Revolving Fund and to prepare a future project 
for the expansion of the rural water and sanitation sector.
2.
Acquisition of a drilling equipment and spare parts and tools for SENASA's 
existing well-drilling and water pump equipment and for its central and regional 
repair shops.
3.
Acquisition of vehicles for the implementation and supervision of the Project.
 
4.
Improvement of SENASA's office facilities and equipment.
 
5.
Technical assistance to the Juntas through a program consisting of: (i) courses 
and seminars for the Juntas' technicians; and (ii) training to the Juntas' management 
and technical staff.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
June 1, 1998                                    425,000
December 1, 1998                                440,000
June 1, 1999                                    455,000
December 1, 1999                                475,000
June 1, 2000                                    490,000
December 1, 2000                                510,000
June 1, 2001                                    530,000
December 1, 2001                                550,000
June 1, 2002                                    570,000
December 1, 2002                                595,000
June 1, 2003                                    615,000
December 1, 2003                                640,000
June 1, 2004                                    665,000
December 1, 2004                                690,000
June 1, 2005                                    715,000
December 1, 2005                                740,000
June 1, 2006                                    770,000
December 1, 2006                                800,000
June 1, 2007                                    830,000
December 1, 2007                                860,000
Page  11
June 1, 2008                                    895,000
December 1, 2008                                930,000
June 1, 2009                                    965,000
December 1, 2009                              1,000,000
June 1, 2010                                  1,040,000
December 1, 2010                              1,075,000
June 1, 2011                                  1,120,000
December 1, 2011                              1,160,000
June 1, 2012                                  1,205,000
December 1, 2012                              1,245,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                        0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                          0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                  0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                  1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth 
in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and civil works shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 and 
$2,000,000, respectively.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
Page  12
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Paraguay may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less, but more than the 
equivalent of $25,000 per contract (up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$2,600,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Civil works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $30,000 but not more 
than the equivalent of $2,000,000 per contract (up to an aggregate amount equivalent 
to 2,000,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract (up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000) may be procured on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract (up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000) may be procured on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three contractors 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A of this Section; and (ii) each contract for civil works estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, to be awarded pursuant to the provisions 
of Part C.2 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
All procurement of goods and works to which international or local competitive 
bidding applies shall be carried out using the standard bidding documents referred to 
in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower, through SENASA, in carrying out the Project, 
the Borrower, through SENASA, shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).
Section III.
Special Provisions
Page  13
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurements of goods and works referred to in Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
2.
The bid with the lowest evaluated cost shall be selected for contract award.
 
3.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as 
a prerequisite for bidding.
4.
Bidders may adjust contract prices for goods, even if the cost of such goods has 
increased by 15% or less.
5.
A minimum of bidders shall not be required.
 
6.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bidding documents with 
the Paraguayan consulates abroad as a prerequisite for bidding.
7.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire local skilled personnel.
 
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurements of consultants' services referred to in Section II 
of this Schedule: 
1.
Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the selection 
process, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with a local consultant.
2.
Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in a short list on the 
basis of evaluation criteria and terms of reference, both satisfactory to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, civil works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  14
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions for each Contrato
1.
Each Contrato shall include a detailed description of each of the components of 
the Subproject, as well as the number of such components and estimatd costs (including 
the number of water and sanitation systems to be built and the terms of repayment of 
the loan referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule), and shall provide in detail for 
Page  15
the works to be carried out by SENASA, for the Juntas' and SENASA's contribution to 
the investment of the applicable Subproject (such investment hereinafter called the 
Investment), for the responsibilities for carrying out such Subproject, and for the 
operation and maintenance of the resulting water supply and sanitation systems, all in 
accordance with sound financial, administrative, engineering, public utility and 
environmental practices.
2.
(a)
The Junta's total contribution to the Investment shall be based on each 
such Junta's ability to pay, provided it shall amount to not less than 60% of the 
Investment. Notwithstanding  the aforesaid, particular cases of villages shall be 
considered and, with the Bank's prior approval, the said percentage may be lowered to 
not less than 40% of such Investment based on evidence furnished to the Bank by each 
village concerning its socio-economic and financial situation.
(b)
(i)
Whatever the Junta's total contribution to the Investment amounts 
to, the Junta, subject to paragraph (c) below, shall make an 
initial contribution of not less than 30% of the Investment, 
during the period in which the works for the applicable Subproject 
are being  carried out.
(ii)
The Junta's initial contribution may be made, subject to (iii) 
below, in the form of cash or provision of labor and materials, or 
both.
(iii)
The cash portion of the Junta's initial contribution shall include 
a down payment to SENASA which shall amount to not less than 15% 
of the Investment.
(c)
Payment of the down payment to SENASA referred to in subparagraph (b) 
(iii) above shall be a condition for the commencement of the works to be carried out.
(d)
The remaining 30% of the Junta's total contribution to the Investment, 
shall be provided by SENASA to such Junta in a form of a loan.
3.
SENASA's total contribution to the Investment shall be equivalent to 40% of the 
cost thereof, which shall be in the form of a grant to the Junta.
4.
The Junta's 30% contribution referred to in paragraph 2 (d) of this Schedule 
shall be repaid by such Junta to SENASA in equal monthly installments with a final 
maturity ranging from 5 to 10
years from the date of the applicable Contrato, including a grace period equivalent to 
the Subproject's construction period plus three months; each such installment shall 
bear a variable interest rate on the unpaid balance of said contribution, plus a 
reasonable penalty interest to cover defaults in the payments of such installments, 
such interest rate to be equal to the interest rate applicable to loans, in the 
Borrower's currency, made by commercial banks to companies, as published monthly by 
the BCP in its bulletin, less six percentage points.
5.
(a)
Each Contrato shall include provisions for the setting up of the level of 
water and sanitation supply tariffs and connection charges as provided in Section 4.03 
of this Agreement.
(b)
Each Contrato shall include the undertaking of the Junta to review 
annually with SENASA said level of tariffs and connection charges and to make any 
required adjustment therein.
6.
Each Contrato shall also include provisions ensuring:
 
(a)
the Junta's undertaking to maintain appropriate records for the carrying 
out of the applicable Subproject and the operation of the resulting water supply and 
sanitation systems;
(b)
the Junta's undertaking to operate and maintain, at all times, the 
plants, machinery, equipment and other property owned or operated by each such Junta, 
and to make promptly all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance 
with sound engineering, public utility and environmental practices;
(c)
the right of SENASA to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives 
of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the applicable 
Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
Page  16
(d)
the right of SENASA: (i) to require that all goods and services financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively for the applicable 
Subproject; (ii) to obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request 
with regard to the carrying out of the applicable Subproject, to the operation and 
maintenance of the resulting water supply and sanitation systems and to the 
administration, operation and financial condition of the Junta in respect of its 
Subproject; and (iii) to audit the accounts and other financial records and statements 
of the Junta; and
(e)
the right of SENASA to suspend disbursements to a Junta, under SENASA's 
loan or grant if such Junta has failed to perform any of its obligations under a 
Contrato.
7.
Subprojects shall be carried out in accordance with the technical standards set 
forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 6
Technical Standards
1.
Water services shall be supplied through house connections in areas with more 
than five houses per 100 meters of street length and through public standpipes to be 
located at less than 200 meters from the dwellings in areas with a density of less 
than five houses per 100 meters.
2.
The following engineering approach shall be used in the design of any 
Subproject:
(a)
design period:
ten years with the exception of the wells which may 
be designed 
for twenty years;
 
(b)
daily per capita demand of 80 liters;
 
(c)
daily and hourly peak demand factors of 1.1 and 1.3, respectively;
 
(d)
storage tank capacity equal to 1/6 of the daily average water demand; and
 
(e)
water pressure not greater than six meters head in the lowest point of 
the water network.
SCHEDULE 7
New Organizational Structure of SENASA
(
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR SCHEDULE, THE ORGANIZATIONAL CHART WAS DONE IN DIFFERENT 
FORMAT)
SCHEDULE 8
Timetable for Carrying Out Parts C.1
and C.5 of the Project
                                          Completion date
1.
Description of Activities           not later than
 
(a)   Elaboration of short and            December 15, 1992
      long-term plans for the
      Water and Sanitation
      Directorate
(b)   A design of methods and             December 15, 1992
      formats for elaborating
      short and long-term
      working plans for the
      Water and Sanitation
      Directorate
(c)   A design of a data base             December 15, 1992
      to monitor and evaluate
      newly created Juntas and
      existing Juntas on the use
Page  17
      of their water and
      sanitation systems, and
      the preparation of a
      reporting system for such
      Juntas
(d)   Assessment to determine             May 15, 1993
      the appropriateness of
      water and sanitation levels
      of services and design
      standards for such services
      with respect to their cost
      and affordability by the
      Users
(e)   Evaluation of the con-              May 15, 1993
      struction methods for
      constructing water and
      sanitation systems and
      preparation of the recom-
      mendations concerning the
      improvement of such methods
(f)   Preparation of manuals              June 15, 1993
      for the supervision of
      the construction of the
      water and sanitation
      systems
(g)   Evaluation of the                   June 15, 1993
      administration, operation
      and maintenance of the
      water and sanitation
      services of existing
      Juntas and preparation
      of the recommendations
      concerning the improve-
      ment of such services
(h)   Preparation of a program            December 15, 1992
      to analyze water con-
      sumption of the Juntas
(i)   Preparation of a technical          June 15, 1993
      assistance and education
      program for water conser-
      vation, including a time-
      table satisfactory to
      the Bank, to implement such
      program
(j)   Preparation of a program            March 15, 1993
      to evaluate sewage disposal
      problems of the Juntas
(k)   Preparation of a program            June 15, 1993
      for alternative low-cost
      technology systems for
      sewage disposal
(l)   Preparation of a training           April 15, 1993
      program on modern training
      methods for SENASA's staff,
      present a timetable of such
      program satisfactory to the
      Bank, and equip the Training
      and Education Division of
      SENASA to carry out its
      training activities
(m)   Implementation of improved          March 15, 1993
      methods for the pro-
Page  18
      motion of community
      participation and the
      organization of the
      Juntas by SENASA's field
      staff
(n)   Preparation of a training           March 15, 1993
      program for Juntas' members
      which shall include, inter
      alia, training courses,
      the design of courses and
      workshops and preparation
      of training materials for
      the Juntas' members and
      their administrative
      personnel
(o)   Implementation of health            June 15, 1993
      education programs for
      the members of new and
      existing Juntas by SENASA's
      health inspectors
(p)   Organization of a joint             June 15, 1993
      program between existing
      successful Juntas and
      new Juntas
(q)   Establish a new financial           March 15, 1993
      accounting system and
      procedures for SENASA's
      Water and Sanitation
      Directorate, including a
      system to enable SENASA
      to obtain annual financial
      reports from the Juntas
(r)   Review and standardize              March 15, 1993
      the accounting systems for
      the Juntas, and design and
      conduct a training program
      for the members of the
      Juntas and their admini-
      strative personnel who
      deal with administra-
      tive, financial and com-
      mercial matters
(s)   Carry out an assessment             October 15, 1992
      of previous experiences
      with lower-cost rural
      water and sanitation
      solutions for dispersed
      rural population and
      settlements in the Borrower's
      territory and abroad
(t)   Preparation of a demonstra-         April 15, 1993
      tion program for imple-
      menting lower-cost
      rural water and sani-
      tation solutions to the
      dispersed population and
      carry out such program
(u)   Develop guidelines,                 July 15, 1993
      manuals, training materials
      and methods for social pro-
      motion concerning the trans-
      fer and application of appro-
      priate low-cost technologies
      for water and sanitation
Page  19
      services to the dispersed
      rural population
(v)   Preparation of a program            October 15, 1993
      for the provision of
      water and sanitation to
      about 20,000 dispersed
      rural inhabitants and
      commence the execution
      of such program
(w)   Present to the Bank, for            September 30, 1995
      its comment, a study to
      prepare a future project
      for the expansion of the
      rural water and sanitation
      sector
2.
The implementation of: (i) the plans referred to in subparagraph (a) above; (ii) 
the design of the methods and formats referred to in subparagraph (b) above; (iii) the 
design of the data base referred to in subparagraph (c) above; and (iv) the program or 
programs referred to in subparagraphs (h), (i), (j), (k), (l) and (p) above shall be 
carried out by the Borrower, through SENASA, immediately after the completion date 
indicated for such activity in this Schedule.
