Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqt N. P-3844-IN
REPORT AND RECOM51ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENr OF THE
INEUATIONAL BAIK FOR RECONSTiCTION AND DEVEL00EN
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRETORS
Oti A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMUNT EQUIVALENT To US9135.4 MILLION
TO THE
TATA ELWTRIC COMPANIES
WIMH THE GUARANrEE
OF INDIA
FOR THE
FOURTH TRO1B'SAY THERMAL POWER PROJET
June 6, 1984
This iscmemi hinsa rercddudis&Qtbiim.ni my Wb ~use b    egm   y in dwplfn  of
thi fiddd    npa--p-  a  oaKwieb  hlw   ibu  edBk .Iioln



CURRENCY EOUIVALEITS
(As of June 6, 1984)
USSl.00        =  Rs 10.993
Rs 1.00        = USSO.0909
Rs 1 million   = US$90,964
The US DollarlRupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as othervise not-d, made at the rate of USS1 to Rs 10.8
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CEA    -   Central Electricity Authority
GEB    -   Gujarat Electricity Board
OOI    -   Government of India
Ga!    -   Goverment of Mabharashtra
MPSEB  -   Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board
MSEB   -   Naharashtra State Electricity Board
ONGC   -   Oil and Natural Gas Corporation
NEPC   -   National Hydro Electric Power Corporation
NTPC   -   National Thermal Power Corporation
REB    -   Regional Electricity Board
REC    -   Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB    -   State Electricity Board
TEC    -   Tata Electric Companies



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
INDIk
FOURTH TKOMBAY THERMAL POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Tata Electric Companies (the Tata Hydro-electric Power
Supply Company Ltd., the Andhra Valley Power Supply
Company Ltd., and the Tata Power Company Ltd.).
Guarantor:              India, acting by its President.
Amount:                 US$135.4 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terns:                  Repayment over 20 years., including five years' grace,
at the applicable variable rate of interest; front-end
fee of 0.25% of the base loan amount.
Tata Electric Companies vill bear the foreign exchange
and interest rate risks.
Proiect
Description:            The project is designed to further the progress of
India-s long-term power generation expansion program
through the provision of additional generating
capacity in the Western Region to help reduce power
shortages there, and to replace existing generators
scheduled to be retired in the late 1980s, resulting
in substantial fuel savings. The project provides
for the construction and installation at Trombay
(near Bombay, in the State of Naharashtra) of a
second 500 megavatt thermal power generating unit,
comprising a turbogenerator, a steam generator,
electrical and mechanical equipment, and associated
works. There are no risks other than those normally
associated with this type of project.
This document ha a restrited distributmn and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duteL Its contents may not otherwise be disclos  without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: 1/
(USS millions)
Item                          Local        Foreian         Total
Preliminary works                           3.2            -              3.2
Civil Works                                 23.6           -             23.6
Turbogenerator and Associated
Equipment                                43.4           53.6           97.0
Steam Generator and Associated
Equipment                                79.0           10.1           89.1
Electrical and Nechanical Equipment        27.0            7.6           34.6
Svitchyard and Transmission                11.5            6.8           18.3
Engineering and Adainistration              6.0            1.0            7.0
Supercritical Boiler Alternative            7.3            -              7.3
Base Cost                              201.0           79.1          280.1
Physical Contingencies                     11.1            4.0           15.1
Price Contingencies                        48.8           17.0           65.8
Total Project Cost                     260.9          100.1          361.0
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                  -              0.4            0.4
Total Financing Requirements              260.9          100.5          361.4
-=                           _
YJ Includes taxes and duties of about US$72.1 million, and excludes about
US$82.3 million in interest during construction, which is not
capitalized, but is treated as an operating expenditure.



-iii-
Financing Plan:                                     (USS millions)
Local        ForeiRn        Total
IBRD Loan                               89.9          45.5          135.4
Tata Electric Companies                 81.0           -             81.0
Local Financial Institutions            90.0           -             90.0
Suppliers- Credits/Foreign
Commercial Banks                       -            55.0           55.0
Total             260.9          100.5         361.4
Estimated Disbursements:
(USS millions)
IBRD FY        FY85     FY86     FY87      FY88     FY89   FY90    FY91
Annual          8.0     23.0      27.0     41.0     20.0   15.0      1.4
Cumulative      8.0     31.0      58.0     99.0    119.0  134.0   135.4
Rate of Return:   About 9.5%. jj
Appraisal Report: No. 4536-IN, dated May 31, 1984.
1/ Based on tariffs as a proxy for minimum benefits.



INTERSAIIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TEE EXECUTIVE DIRECrORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE TATA ELECTRIC COMPANIES WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF INDIA FOR A FOURTH TROMBAY THERKAL POWER PROJECT
i_      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Tata Electric Companies, vith the guarantee of the Government
of India, in an amount equivalent to US$135.4 million, to help finance the
construction of a 500 megawatt thermal pover generating unit and
associated works at Trombay in the State of Maharashtra. The loan will be
amortized over twenty years, including five years' grace, at the
applicable variable rate of interest. Tata Electric Companies will be
charged a guarantee fee by the Government of India to bring the effective
interest rate to a level comparable to the current rate at which Bank
Group assistance is being made available to public sector companies.
Additional financing for the project, in an amount equivalent to about
US$55 million equivalent, is expected to be provided from suppliers'
credits or foreign commercial bank loans. In addition, about US$90
million equivalent will be provided from local financial institutions.
The foreign exchange and interest rate risks for the proposed loan will be
borne by Tata Electric Companies.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian
Economy - A Medium Term PerEpective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Backi2round
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
750 million (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The
economy is dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of
the labor force. Hovever, the land base is not sufficient to provide an
adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in agricultural activities,
especially those who own little or no land. Growth of value-added in
agriculture-2.2Z since 1950/51-has been slover than growth of industrial
value-added (5.3% per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual
decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor cost) from 522 in
1950/51 to about 332 in 1981/82, while the share of industry rose from 20%
to around 262. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb
the groving labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
1I Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the National Cooperative Development
Corporation (NCDC) III Project (No. P-3833-IN), datea May 30, 1984.



-2-
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels.
As a result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades,
averaging about 3.6Z per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita
income rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite
the large population base and its relatively rapid growth, India aas been
able to eliminate persistent dependence on foodgraia imports through
significant improvements in agricultural production. Savings and
investment have increased markedly since 1950151: the gross national
savings rate more than doubled from 10.8Z of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7Z
in 1983/84, while the gross domestic investment rate rose from 12.5% of
GDP to 24.8Z in 1983184. Foreign savings (balance of payments deficit on
current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s.
Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment. External
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP aud in per capita
terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and averaging below 1% for the past
five years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3% of GDP,
and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume grovth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2X per annum, vhile the volume
growth of imports over the sa-e period was 4.3%. In the early to
mid-1970s. hovever, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly
constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the
Gover.ment introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate
exports. As a result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about
7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates
that sustained rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets,
particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth,
liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective export incentives
played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain
output. As a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and
industrial value-added substantially exceeded the historical 30-year
trends (paragraph 3) averaging 5.3Z, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during
the 1975/76 .o 1978/79 period. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp
fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a
relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also
emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These setbacks
coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down
a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit,
removing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an
overall growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.



-3-
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
Indias economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of
the second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to
1982/83), GDP growth averaged almost 5Z per annum, while between the two
recovery years (from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.52 per
annum-substantially higher than India's long-term growth rate of 3.6Z.
Continued rapid economic grovth has resulted from a development strategy
which includes higher investment levels and liberalized policies on
imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commercial borrowing. These
policies, by easing constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic
commodities, were a determining factor in the improved performance of the
economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement in
performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82
and 1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The
growth rate of wholesale prices declined from over 18Z in 1980/81 . only
2.6Z in 1982/83, but rose to over 9Z in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect
of the 1982/83 drought on food prices. Further improvements in the policy
environment will be required to maintain these higher levels of economic
growth and investment without putting undue pressure on the balance of
payments or reviving inflationary expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, reflecting
the uneven rainfall during the period. In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the
economy substantially recovered from the 1979 drought, vith real GDP
growing by 7.6Z and 5.3Z, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4Z in 1980/81 and 8.6Z in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15Z
and 5.5Z, respectively. The supply of pover, coal, and rail transport,
already iLproved in 1980/81, was further expanded iz 1981(82, recording
growth rates of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.5Z, respectively. This overall
improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe
drought in mid-1982 vhich reduced agricultural production by 42, brought
down the GDP growth rate to 1.8Z, and put further strains on the already
difficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely
implementation of various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports,
procurement and distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation
pumps mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of the poor
monsoon. The ecoromy recovered in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural
sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7% with agricultural production growth
in the 92-10% range and industrial growth of 4.5%. The major factors
contributing to the good economic performance during 1983/84 were the
excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural policies and
programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport sectors.
The power sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher growth,
especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response
to the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of
irrigation. Overall foodgrain production rose by 10%-12% over the
previous year, reaching a new record of 142-144 million tons, a
substantial increase over the previous peak of 133 million tons in



-4-
1981/82. Corrected for veather variations, foodgrain production continues
to grow at a trend of 2.6% per annum-sufficient to maintain a broad
balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic demand.
Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for Loodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could
arise from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks
and programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the
efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high
priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983184,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half
of the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains
of 1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7Z due to low
reservoir water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the
commissioning of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization
in thermal plants. As a result, power generation was about 11.5% below
requirements and constituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key
industries which were adversely affected by power constraints included
steel, fertilizers, cement, and coal. To improve performance in the power
sector, the Government recently increased incentives for higher labor and
management productivity in thermal plants. Railvay freight traffic,
measured in ton-kms, grew by only 0.5% in 1983184. reflecting sluggish
demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5% in 1983/84 reaching 139
million tons. When combined with stocks already available this level of
production was sufficient to meet the relatively slov demand growth.
Infrastructural constraints vould have emerged much more sharply had the
pace of industrial grovth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these
key sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement
programs to enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource
surplus in the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap
between gross investment and national savings increased from negligible
levels during the late 1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1% of GDP in
1980-84. India's gross national savings rate, which averaged 22.6Z of GDP
in the last four years, is high by any standard, particularly considering
India's lov income and the large proportion of its population belov the
poverty line. The scope for a substantial increase in the savings rate is
therefore quite limited. If India is to maintain investment at about 25%
of GDP, a major effort will be required to raise additional domestic
resources particularly in the public sector. Future increases in savings
will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more
efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1%-2.3Z
of GDP to 1.5%-1.8%, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the
late 1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from
1976177 to 1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1Z



-5-
of GDP during 1980/81 to 1983i84. Several deveLupments contributed to
these relatively larger current account deficits. First, the terms of
trade deteriorated sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price
increases and continued to move against India during the first three years
of the l980s. Second, a more liberal import policy towards industrial
inputs was pursued. Third, net invisibles declined as travel receipts
fell off, workers' remittances stagnated (reflecting slower development
activity in the Middle East), and payment of interest on higher levels of
foreign debt increased. Faced with severe infrastructural constraints and
a deterioration in its balance of payments, India initiated an adjustment
program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth rate from its historical
level of 3.6% to 5.2% while adjusting the country's external balance to
the adverse price developments in the world markets. The main elements of
this strategy are export promotion, import substitution where economically
justifiable, implementation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet
the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports,
and continued movement tovard a more liberal import policy aimed at
providing producers with access to inputs for higher capacity utilization,
greater efficiency, improved technology and capacity expansion. The
program is being successfully implemented, and is leading to substantial
improvements.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the
reduction in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9
billion in 1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import
liberalization. Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and
petroleum products, metals and fertilizers more than offset the
substantial increase in "other" imports. These "other" imports consist
mainly of industrial imports and capital goods which historically have
been in chronic short supply and which are of critical importance to
capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modernization and
expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit vas the
lower net import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in
1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil
development program that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil
exports, which totalled about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural
changes in the balance of payments are to a significant degree the result
of India's development and adjustment efforts over the past three years.
It is expected that the balance of payments will continue to be under
strain for the next several years, since the adjustment strategy will
continue to require high levels of imports.
14.     E-1en assuming a favorable export performance, India will need
external ca3ital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable
future, given the low per capita income level in the country, the already
high savings rate, and the import requirement associated with improved
growth rates. Faced with a groving need for external capital inflows and
stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance, India decided
at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
Iaternational Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial
levels. In the period covering the fiscal years 1981182 to 1983184, India
drew SDR 3.9 billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In



-6-
addition, JQdia borrowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the
Euro-dollar market and increased the use of suppliers' and export credits.
In the period 1980-84, India contracted commercial loans totalling over
US$6,000 million and suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The
bulk of this borrowing has been used for specific development projects in
the public and private sector (mostly for petroleum exploration and
development, steel, power, aluminum and shipping). India's favorable debt
service position and the nature of its borrowings, for project-related
purposes instead of direct balance of payments support, enabled it to tap
commercial capital markets at favorable spreads. This larger commercial
borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement with the IKF has
stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen to less than
four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the
industrial sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it
nevertheless is large in absolute terms and has a highly diversified
structure, capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure-irrigation, railways, telecommunications,
pover, roads and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although
there is considerable need for additional capacity as well as improvement
in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has a wide range of
institutions capable of fostering development and is well-endoved with
human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in
terms of land, vater, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but
also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will
lay down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is
expected to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy
development, export promotion, domestic import substitution where
economically justifiable and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks.
Overall Sixth Plan performance has been encouraging, with aggregate real
investment projected to be about 302 higher than in the period 1975-80--a
creditable performance indeed.  The Sixth Plan expenditure targets,
however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobilization by the public
sector will fall short of the financing requirements of planned public
investment.  Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be about 7%
below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment being
5% to 10Z higher and public investment about 20% lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the
performance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of
the State Governments. The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely
to reach about 80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in real terms,
while the States' will probably achieve only about 50% of their targets.
Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power, transport and irrigation are



-7-
likely to persist as a consequence of real investment shortfalls relative
to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's
capital formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.72 of
GDP in 1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for
futuie income growth, but returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investmeat has
been needed to build up basic infrastructure services which have
inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is scope to reduce
capital-output ratios through improvements in efficiency. As discussed in
greater detail in our recent economic reports, performance in the basic
service sectors can be improved through better planning and management,
thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout
the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are
vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement,
this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned
capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy
will be vital for sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development
program backed by substantial financial commitmnent. Performance under the
program has been excellent with real investment and oil production levels
running well ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983,
resources for exploration and development were raised by successive price
increases for domestic crude and products. Whi'le the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and productior remains large, India's dependence
on oil imports dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in
1983/84 and is expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by
1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of exp'oration activity, combined
with the possibilities for accelerated offtake from known fields, offers
much encouragement for India's longer-term energy prospects. At the same
time, the increases in domestic petroleum prices have helped encourage
conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge
on the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and
external balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than
in the past. This will require the continuation of the current
development strategy which assigns high priority to export promotion,
public finance discipline, improvement of economic efficiency, and
investment in infrastructure, supported by adequate flows of external
borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively large level of
external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments
consequences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in
providing India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate
flows of concessional assistance since India is still a very poor country
with a large rural sector and enormous investment requirements for human
development and basic infrastructure. Although India is currently in a



-8-
position to increase borrowing on comrercial terms from the very low
levels of the past, there are, of course, limits beyond which India vill
choose to sacrifice grovth objectives rather than accept debt on
unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The fact that India has been able over
the past decade to maintain a rate of growth above the long term trend,
despite the poor monsoons of 1979 and 1982, suggests that a more open
trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the growth of
productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both foreign
and domestic savings, can sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per
annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per a2num. If the rate of
population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth
rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita
income of 1.4Z per annum. Success in these efforts would make a
significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.    A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the
need to accelerate India-s development efforts.  The 1981 Census indicated
there was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained
about 2.2% per annum in the 1970. despite a measurable decline in
fertility rates. The population grovth rate failed to decline in the past
decade due to a reduction in the infant mortality rate and an increase in
life expectancy, reflecting larger availability of food and health
services. While this is a welcome development, it implies a greater
strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the need for continuing efforts to
strengthen the health and family planning programs in a broad range of
activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in the
Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in
the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979180 level of about 23%
to over 35% by 1984185. The Government is reviewing its population policy
for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to retain the
emph"sis on the implementation of family planning, health, education and
literacy *rograms aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
and social policy. More than one-third of the vorld's poor live in India,
and more than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of
landless laborers and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population
and 40% of the urban population subsist below the poverty line.
Significant reductions in poverty will depend primarily on an acceleration
of economic growth, particularly in agriculture, combined with effective
implementation of poverty alleviation programs. India's poverty
alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that production-oriented
programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of economic growth,
and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least able to
participate in the general growth of the economy, can be rutually
reinforcing rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty
programs operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum
Needs Program (HNP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and
the National Rural Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and IREP are
targeted programs aimed at increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly,
either through the transfer of productive assets or direct employment.
The MNP, aims at broadeuing the provision of social infrastructure and



-9-
basic services which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve
living standards. These programs represent a vitally important commitment
of the Go:.ermient to address the needs of the poorest.  The scale of the
poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent difficulties in
implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need for continued
efforts to ebnhnce the effectiveuess of these programs.
PART II - BASIK GROUP OPERAIIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 164 developcent
credits to India totalling USS5,183 million aud USS12,016 million (both
net of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, USS1,452 million
has been repaid, and US$5,723 million was still undisbursed as of
March 31, 1984. Bank Group disbursements to Icdia in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1984 totalled USS1,072 million, represtenting an
increase o£ about 6 percent over the same period last year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1984.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which USS32 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and
USS17 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$118 million, US$111 million
represents loans and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
disbursements as of March 31, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country-s development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments
in irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricultural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of
basic agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer,
marketing, storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending
program have also been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the
infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth in India,
particularly through pover generation and distribution, and railways and
relecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through its support of development
finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank
Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads
project, as well as water supply and severage and other urban
infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and
consonant with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The
continued active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and
infrastructure development will appropriately contribute to India's
adjustment and growth prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support,
with emphasis on improved efficiency in vater conveyance systems to ensure



-10-
reliable delivery to fanmers' fields. In addition, major investments to
develop the large Narmada River basin will be vital to Indiacs efforts to
increaze agricultural production. Important complements to these efforts,
such as fertilizer production and distribution, agricultural credit and
extension, will continue to receive support. A continued program of
investments aimed at rapidly increasing the domestic supply of energy will
clearly be necessary if India i6 to curb the _ost of oil imports and
alleviate the critical pover shortages which constrain output in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil and gas
resources is a central elenent of this program, which should be
supplemented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in
the expansion of the trans-3ission and distribution networks- Industrial
projects to increase the d3mestic production of basic co-modities, which
have been in short supply and vhich India has a comparative advantage in
producing, should also receive high priority. Finally, raising the
efficiency and levels of transportation infrastructure would mitigate a
key constraint to achieving higher levels of economic growth so that
further support of the railways and for ports development Vill be
particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme
of Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India
Consortium. Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India
successfully adjusted to the changed world price situation of the
mid-1970s. However, India continues to require a substantial level of
foreign assistance both to offset the overall deterioration in the world
trade environment, and to sustain the relatively higher investment and
growth rates achieved during the first four years of the Sixth Plan. As
in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to
include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible,
external capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms.
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past
vas provided from IDA. Rowever, IDA lending to India has declined from a
peak of US$1.5 billion in 1980 to belov US$1 billion since that time,
mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA 6. Lower IDA 7
replenishment and uncertainties about IDA 8, coupled vith increasing
claims for IDA funding from other countries, indicate that the amount of
IDA funds available to India is likely to continue declining, even in
nominal terms, and will remain small in relation to India's needs for
external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its
development prospects and policies, India is judged credit-worthy for Bank
lending to supplement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already
underway to achieve growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher
levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate



-1l-
of population growth should result in continued economic growth and
improvement in the balance of Day=ents. Despite -ecent setbacks, India's
external payments position is still manageable. Tne ratio of India-s debt
service to the level of exports of goods and services and receipts of
current transfers was about 12.9% in 1983/84. Over the next several years
this ratio is projected to rise to around 20: and re-ain around that level
through 1995(96. As of March 31, 1984, outstanding loans to India held by
the Bank totalled USS3,894 million, of which US$2,021 million remain to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding o' USS1,863 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by Indiz, the proportion
contributed by che Bank Group has grown significantly. in 1969/70, the
Bank Group accounted for 34_ of total commitments, 13: of gross
disbursements, and 12 of net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and
37:, respectively, in 1983184.  On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and
disbursed external public debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion,
of which the Bank Group's share was USS9.6 billieo or 36% (IDA's US$7.8
billion and IBRD-s USS1.8 billion).  In 1983184, about 19.0  of India-s
total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
29.     India-s economic growth depends to a large degree on the
development of the pover sector; shortages of powver have an immediate
impact on virtually all activities of the economy. The development of the
sector is therefore receiving high priority in Central and State
Government investment planning, and the power sector now accounts for the
largest share of India's public investment program (18- of the Sixth
Five-Year Plan outlay).
Power Supply and Demand - India-Wide
30.     In the 1950s and 1960s, India's power generation kept pace with
its demand for power, with both installed capacity and power generation
growing at an average annual rate of about 11i.  Since 1970, supply has
fallen short of demand primarily because of delays in commissioning new
power projects, operating and maintenance Droblems, and severe budget
constraints which have limited investment in the sector. The situation
has been aggravated by unstable coal supplies caused by disruptions in
coal mining and transport, and the declining quality of available coal.
However, growth in pover generation has been progressively stepped up:
during the first half of the 1970s, it averaged only 5% annually; in the
second half of the decade, considerable improvement was made, with growth
in both generation and capacity averaging about 8% annually. The
situation has further improved in 1980/81 and 1981/82, with an annual
growth of about 8% in power generation exceeding a 6.5Z annual growth rate
in installed capacity, indicating better utilization of existing
resources. Nevertheless, power shortages persist in many parts of the



-12-
country, particularly in the Eastern Region. Total installed generating
capacity as of March 1983 was about 38.100 MP (including non-utility
plant), of vhich about 63Z was conventional thermal, 35% hydro, and 2%
n-Lclear.
31.     Industrial power consumption accounts for about 60% of all
electricity sold, whiLe agriculture (mainly irrigation) accounts for 18Z,
domestic use 12%  and other uses lOZ. As a result of accelerated
agricultural development, power consumption in the rural areas, vhere more
than 80% of India-s population lives, has shown -arked growth in recent
years. The number of villages which have been electrified, for example,
increased from just over 3,COO in 1950151 to an eszimated 300,000
(representing about 522 of all villages in India) by- thF end of 1982.
India's Central Electricity Authority qCEA) has projected in its long-term
national power plan that over the period from 1982183 to 1994195,
generating capacity will grow at an average annual rate of about 9.5Z to a
level of about 106,000 Mg, of which about 59,000 MW (56%) vould be
thermal, 44,000 MB (41%) hydro and 3,500 Mg (3%) nuclear. About 15,000 NW
of the additional generating capacity is expected to be added by 1984185.
Power Sup-ply and Demand - Western Region
32.    The Western Region, in which the proposed project is located,
comprises the States of Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The
major supply authorities of the Western Region are the State Electricity
Boards (SEBs) of these States, the Tata Electric oAxmpanies (TEC) (the
beneficiary of the loan), Ahmedabad Electric Company and Surat Electric
Company. In addition, a number of small municipalities are also engaged
in power supply. The Western Region Electricity Board has constructed at
Bombay a Regional Load Dispatch Center, which will eventually integrate
the operation of the generating facilities throughout E-he Region. The
total installed capacity in the Region as of March 1983 Vcs about
10,043 KW, of which about 78% is thermal. Projects already ci--mitted
would increase installed capacity in 1988189 by 6,992 Mg, of which about
6,680 M1 (95%) is thermal. Further new projects identified for study
total 12,153 NV. of which 6.270 NW (52%) is thermal.
33.    Load growth in the Western Region in the decade 1971-1981 averaged
about 7.4% per year, slightly higher than the national rate of about 6.4%
per year over the same period. CEA's load forecast in the long-term power
plan projects load growth rates of between 9.7% and 11.3% per year
(depending upon two scenarios of industrial growth) for the period 1980/81
- 1984185, gradually decreasing to a level of between 7.4% and 8.3% for
the period 1989190 - 1994/95. The relatively high rates in the early
years are attributable to satisfying suppressed demand. Peak demand in
the Region is forecast (in the "high" scenario) to grow from 7,143 MS in
1982/83 to 19,540 KW in 1994195, representing an average annual rate of
increase of 8.75Z. Depending upon assumptions made about forced outage
rates and the rate of development of hydro pover that can be achieved,
between 19,000 NW and 25,000 MW of additional generating capacity will
need to be installed in the Region by 1995.



-13-
Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
34.    Since 1954. the Bank Group has made 15 loans to ladia for power
projects amounting to US$1,389.6 million and 16 credits totalling
US$2,266.0 million. Of these amounts, US$2,465.4 milliou is for
generating plant; US$23.0 million for construction equipment for the Beas
Hydroelectric Project; US$630.7 million for the provision of high-voltage
transmission; and US$536.5 million for the support of rural
electrification schemes. Sixteen projects have been completed: ten for
generating plant, the Beas Project, four for power transmission, and the
First Rural Electrification Project. The First Singrauli (Credit 685-IN
of April 1977), Third Trombay (Loan 1549-IN of June 1978), and Second
Rural Electrification (Credit 911-IN of June 1979) Projects are scheduled
to be completed this year. The First Korba (Credit 793-IN of May 1978)
and First Ramagundam (Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN of February 1979)
Thermal Power Projects are in an advanced stage of implementation. The
loan for the Third Rural Electrification Project (Loan 2165-Il) was
approved in June 1982. The loan for the Central Power Transmission
Project (Loan 2283-IN), and the loan and credit for the Upper Indravati
Hydro Project (Loan 2278-IN and Credit 1356-IN), were approved in May
1983. The loan and Special Fund credit for the Bodhghat Hydroelectric
Project were approved in May 1984. The Singrauli and Korba projects are
on schedule, but some delays have occurred in the Third Rural
Electrification Project. The first five units of the Singrauli project
and the first two units of the Korba project were commissioned on
schedule. The Farakka and Ramagundam projects are proceeding
satisfactorily, the first unit at Rauigundtm having been commissioned four
months ahead of schedule. Unit 5 at Trombay (the Third Trombay Project)
was synchronized in January 1984, about a year behind schedule.
35.     A project performance audit was conducted in 1980 for the Second
Power Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN). The project was considered to
have been successful in assisting the nine beneficiary SE2B in extending
their transmission systems to help meet their groving pover requirements.
Utilization of generating capacity in these SEBs exceeded the appraisal
forecast. Upgrading the financial management practices of the SEBs, which
commenced under this project, is continuing under subsequent projects.
The audit highlighted the difficulties of adequately supervising this
project, which consisted of many widely-scattered sub-projects, and of
effecting institutional improvements in the absence of a close working
relationship between the Bank Group and the beneficiary SEBs. With the
assumption of increased responsibilities by the CE&, which have resulted
in greater involvement in SEB operations and project preparation, a
considerably more effective relationship with the SEBs is envisaged.
Sector Isstitutions
36.     Under the Indian Constitutiou, the responsibility for supplying
power is shared between the CentraL Government and the State Governments,
and full agreement between the Center and the States is required for the
implementation of most actions. Various agencies have been established
at the State, Regional and national level to promote the development of an



-14-
integrated power system vithin the country. The principal agencies are:
the SEBs, the Regional Electricity Boards (REBs), the CEA, the two Central
power corporations-the National Thermal Power Corporation (NMPC) and the
National Rydro-Electric Power Corporation (NEPC)-and the Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC).
37.     The SEBs were constituted by the State Governments under the
provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, to promote the
coordinated development of generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity in the most efficient and economical manner, and to control
and regulate private licensees and utilities. The States effectively own
or control over 90Z of electricity supply facilities. While the SEBs are
corporate entities and enjoy some autonomy in the management of their
day-to--day operations, they are under the control of State Governments in
such matters as capital investment, tariffs, borrovings, pay scales and
personnel policies.
38.     The REBs were established for the Northern, Southern, Eastern,
Western and North-Eastern Regions to coordinate the integrated operation
of the Regional power systems and to izprove collaboration among the SEBs.
The REBs, which function mainly in an advisory role, coordinate the
operation of the Regional system to the maximum benefit of each Region as
a whole. They also coordinate overhaul and maintenance programs,
determine generation schedules and power availability for inter-State
transfer, and determine tariffs for the transfer of power within the
Region.
39.     The CU was constituted in 1950 with responsibility for developing
national power policy and coordinating the activities of the various
agencies involved in electricity supply. It is responsible for the
formulation and coordination of plans for power development, optimization
of investments in the pover sector for the whole country, development of
interconnected system operation, training of personnel, and research and
development. It accumulates data on operational, economic, financial and
accounting aspects of the pover industry, both at Center and State levels.
It also provides consulting support to SEBs on technical matters
associated with power projects, and advises them on financial matters.
40.     The NTPC and N[PC were incorporated in 1975 by GOI to construct,
own and operate large central power stations, as well as high-voltage
power transmission lines and associated substations. Although the Central
Government's role is becoming increasingly significant in the sector, the
SEBs will continue to play a major role, particularly in hydro-electric
development. The States own most hydro sites and are reluctant to turn
over these sources of comparatively inexpensive energy to the Center. In
addition, NHrC can develop hydro stations only vhen water rights issues
are resolved.
41.     The REC was constituted in 1969 and registered under the Companies
Act, 1956, as a limited company wholly owned by the Government of India.
Its primary objective is to promote rural electrification schemes prepared
by SEBs throughout India by functioning as a financial intermediary with



-15-
technical expertise, and ensuring the efficient onlending of funds drawn
primarily from GOI. REC coordinates its lending operations with the
activities of other agencies which provide financing for rural
development. Although the amount of REC financial support is small in
relation to total SEB operations, REC today finances more than half of
total rural electrification investment.
Bank Group StrateRy in the Power Sector
42.     The objectives of the Bank Group-s assistance strategy in the
sector have evolved from a continuing dialogue with the Government
,oncerning the policies and programs required to deal with the complex
problems confronting the Indian electricity supply industry. They are
aimed at supporting the efforts of the Indian authorities to:
(a) eliminate power shortages through the expansion of generating and
transmission capacity, and measures to improve operation and maintenance
of existing plant; (b) introduce long-range system placning, on a
nationwide basis, to assure implementation of least-cost pover
development; (c) assist in institution-building by promoting improvements
in sector organization and training; and (d) strengthen the financial
management of the institutions in the sector, particularly the SEBs.
43.     In line with these objectives, the Bank Group has emphasized the
need for the Governmeut to pursue a program of improvements in five high
priority areas: (a) the performance of thermal pover plants;
(b) coordination of power development with the development of other
sectors; Cc) hydro-electric power development; (d) the role of the Central
sector in the development of power generation and transmission; and
(e) the financial objectives and practices of SEBs. The recommendations
of GOI's Committee on Power, established in 1978 to review all aspects of
the power sector, and as contained in the  omprehensive program prepared
by GOI in 1982 for the implementation of power sector improvements,
reflected the priorities emphasized by the Bank.
44.     Satisfactory progress has been made in each of the five areas, as
the following examples illustrate.  To mprove operational efficiency in
thermal plants, teams of specialists, including representatives from CEA,
SEBs and manufacturers, were established by the Department of Power to
visit all power plants with 1001120 MW and 200/210 MW thermal generating
units in the country to diagnose technical aad operational problems,
propose solutions and assign responsibilities for their implementation.
Based upon their investigations, a detailed program has been developed
which includes, for each pover plant, remedial measures and their relevant
costs and time-frames for implementation, as well as the expected
consequent improvement in plant performauce. GOI is expected to present
to the Bank in the near future a proposed thermal pover plant
rehabilitation project for Bank Group financing. A pilot program for
thermal plant rehabilitation in the State of Madhya Pradesh has already
been included as a component in a recently-approved hydro-power project.
In late 1982, CEA compLeted its national long-term pover development plan,
responding to the Bank's emphasis on the need for a nationwide long-range
plan for power development in India. The plan forecasts growth in pover



-16-
demand and corresponding capacity expansion and equipment requirements to
meet this demand through the year 2000, according to alternative scenarios
based upon projections of Tndia's growth and performance. The plan also
provides least-cost generation expansion programs and is now being used as
the basis for preparation of both five-year plans and annual investment
programs for the pover sector. The first Bank Group supported
hydro-electric project in India (Upper Indravati) was approved in 1983, a
second (Bodbghat) was approved recently and a number of other projects are
in advanced stages of preparation. GOI, through NTPC, now has under
construction and partly in operation about 10,000 MW of pover generating
capacity, which includes, as well as the four large thermal plants at
Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka being financed by the Bank Group,
two large thermal plants (Rihand and Vind&yachal) begun by NTPC in 1982.
The first Central Power Transmission Project, approved in 1983, is
designed to reinforce the Centrally-owned power transmission grid, and
provide the first stage of integration of the Northern, Western and
Southern Regional grids. The establishment of the REBs, NTPC and NKPC
have been important steps towards an improved organizational structure of
the power sector. NTPC has decentralized its operations on a regional
basis to provide more local and effective monitoring, control and
operation of its power generation and transmission facilities. Finally,
legislation for amendment of the financial provisions of the Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948, to enable the SEBs to operate along commercial lines
was recently enacted by GOI; a uniform system of commercial accounting for
the SEBs is under development; and new financial performance criteria for
the SEBs have been introduced.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.    The project was prepared by the Tata Electric Companies and
appraised by a mission vhich visited India in February 1983. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4536-IN, dated May 31, '984) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations vere held in
Washington in Hay 1984. GOI and the Tata Electric Companies were
represented by a delegation with Mr. S. Bajpai of the Department of
Economic Affairs as coordinator. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
46.     The objective of the project is to further the progress of India's
least-cost power generation expansion program through the provision of
additional thermal capacity in the Western Region to help reduce power
shortages in the Region. The proposed 500 NW unit, to be located at TEC's
Trombay plant, near Bombay, will provide TEC with generating capacity to
replace four of their older generators, vhich are due to be retired
towards the end of the 1980s, as well as provide additional capacity for
the Region. A further objective of the project is fuel-saving. The
replacement of the older units by a new unit operating under higher steam
conditions will realize substantial fuel savings: the proposed unit would
consume about 110,000 tons of oil equivalent per year less in generating



-17-
the same amount of energy as is currently provided by the four older
generators.
47.     The proposed project consists of the construction and installation
of a 500 MW generating unit (Unit 6), comprising a turbogenerator, steam
generator, electrical and mechanical plant, a transmission line, a
circulating water system, fuel oil storage tanks and associated civil
works. The unit vill be similar to the 500 Mg Unit 5 presently under
construction, vhich is expected to be commissioned early this year.
Hovever, GOI and TEC are considering the adoption of an alternative type
of steam generator which has a "super-critical" stesm cycle and is even
more fuel-efficient than the 500 MW unit presently under construction. If
this alternative is found to be economically justified and is adopted,
Indian pover utilities, manufacturers and consultants will benefit from
the introduction of this nev technology. The steam generator will be
designed to burn coal, oil or gas. Hovever, since the unit is not
expected to burn coal in the early years of its life, the purchase of coal
handling equipment (bunkers, pulverizers, coal and ash handling plant, and
electrostatic precipitators) vill be deferred and will not be financed
under the project. Provision will be made to add these items at a later
da._, is necessary.  The proposed additional unit will be erected adjacent
to Unic 5 on reclaimed land (part of the ash disposal area) owned by TEC.
The necessary infrastructure facilities (water, transmission, roads and
railway) are already available adjacent to the site and will be extended
as necessary to meet the requirements of the additional unit. The project
is scheduled to go into commercial operation in 1989.
48.     Electricity generated by the project will be fed into the
Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) system, which is interconnected
with the Gujarat Electricity Board (GEB) and Madhya Pradesh State
Electricity Board (MPSEB) systems to form the Western Regional system.
The nev unit will contribute about 3Z of the expected total capacity
(15,500 MW) of the Western Region in 1989, the year it begins commercial
operation. Load flow and stability studies have demonstrated the adequacy
of the TEC-MSEB transmission network, as it will be developed, to handle
the demand.
Proiect Implementation
49.     The project will be implemented over the period FY85-89 by Tata
Electric Companies as part of its ongoing pover development program. TEC
will be the borrover of the proposed loan, and GOI will serve as
guarantor. TEC consists of three separate private sector companies ij
established in 1910, 1916, and 1919, which operate as a group under the
same management. TEC is affiliated with the Tata group of enterprises,
which has substantial financial resources, an excellent credit rating,
if The Tata Hydro-Electric Power Supply Company Limited, The Andhra
Valley Pover Supply Company Limited and the Tata Pover Company
Limited.



-18-
first-class managerial ability, and a long and successful history of
operations in many industrial and other fields in India. TEC itself is
also well managed and operated in accordance with sound utility and
commercial principles. Its management and staff are fully competent to
implement the proposed profect efficiently. TEC will advise the Bank in
advance of any major changes in either its organizational structurc "r the
scope of its activities (Section 4.07 of Loan Agreement).
50.     Each of the three companies operates under an individual license,
and the Trombay Thermal Pover Electric License 1953, under which the
Trombay pover station is operated, is granted jointly to all three. The
current license expires on June 30, 2000. As this date falls within the
lifetime of the proposed B:nk loan, the Government of Maharashtra (GOM)
has assured GOI that TEC-s license will be extended for a period covering
the life of the loan. GOI will take all actions necessary to ensure that
by December 31, 1985, TEC's license vill be extended by GOM to August 15,
2004, the loan maturity date (Section 3.05(ii) of Guarantee Agreement).
TEC and NSEB are to begin discussions on July 1, 1984 to arrive at a
mutually acceptable agreement for further redefinition of TEC-s licensed
area. GOI has undertaken that GON will not take any actiou that would
interfere with TEC's performance or adversely affect TEC's financial
position (Section 3.05(i) of Guarantee Agreement).
51.     Engineering services for the project will be provided by Tata
Consulting Engineers, who engineered Unit 5, with assistance if necessary
from experienced foreign consultants. TEC has already begun work on
filling and dike construction at the project site, so that piling and
civil works can commence as soon as possible.
52.     Water for the project will be provided primarily from the Bombay
water supply system, vhich is being expanded. No difficulties in meeting
the water requirements of the project are anticipated. However, the
municipal supply vill be conserved by tapping groundwater for general
services, recirculating water where possible, and using sea vater instead
of fresh water where this is acceptable.
53.     The steam generator for Unit 6 is of a design which permits it to
burn coal, oil or gas. Supplies of associated natural gas from the Bombay
High oilfield are available at Trombay, as are supplies of residual fuel
oil from nearby refineries.  Coal is a-ailable from the Singrauli
coalfields. At present, all three fuels are being consumed by the
existing plant, and surplus supplies of associated natural gas and
residual fuel oil are available. The limits to the supplies of these
fuels, and the extent of the demand for them which may develop from other
users, is not yet known, but it is likely that oil and gas will be burnt
at the Trombay plant, and in Unit 6 in particular, for a number of years
to come. In any event, GOI has agreed to ensure that adequate supplies
of suitable fuel will be made available for the optimum operation of the
Trombay plant (Section 3.03 of Guarantee Agreement).
54.     About 400,000 tons per year of residual oil (low sulphur heavy
stock) are supplied presently by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and



-19-
Hindustan Petroleum Corporation, and used in the first three units. From
1984, about one million tons per year of this fuel vill be available, and
it is expected that much of this will be burned by TEC until such time as
other users of the fuel become established. About 320,000 tons per year
(0.87 Ncm/day) of associated gas are supplied presently by the Oil and
Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), through its pipeline to the Trombay plant.
TEC is so far the only user for much of this fuel, vhich otherwise vould
have to be flared. New consumers vill be taking quantities of gas in the
next few years, but new oil and gas finds are also expected to be made.
Although ONGC can give TEC no firm commitment about supplies, it seems
likely that for some years there will be no market except TEC for a large
part of the associated gas.
55.    About 180,000 tons per year of coal have been allocated to
Trombay, primarily for use on Unit 4 and Unit 5, which is presently under
construction. Deliveries are made by rail from the Singrauli coalfields,
and Indian Railways has facilities to deliver up to 2.3 million tons of
coal per year to the Bombay area. Coal receipts to date have been
considerably less than the allocation, primarily because of the reduced
need resulting from the availability of the other types of fuel. Units 4,
5, and 6, if they were to burn only coal, would require together about
2.8 million tons of coal per year. Transportation of coal by sea to
Trombay from Haldia (near Calcutta), or from Paradeep (in Orissa) is also
feasible, and thus represents an alternative or additional source of
supply. If this method of supply were to be adopted, a special jetty
would be constructed close to Unit 6, where this coal would be unloaded.
56.     The location of the proposed sixth unit is in an industrial area
on the outskirts of Bombay on coastal land adjacent to the existing
Trombay power station. Since there are no residential properties in the
near vicinity, no resettlement problems are involved. TEC has already
installed under the previous project (Third Trombay Thermal Power Project)
electrostatic precipitators which are adequate for the first 500 MW unit.
TEC will take all necessary steps in the design, construction and
operation of the proposed project to ensure compliance with the
environmental quality standards prescribed by national, state or local
authorities (Section 3.04 of Loan Agreement). The new 500 MW generating
unit will have provision for the addition of an electrostatic precipitator
and a 500-feet high stack to ensure adequate dispersion of emissions. Ash
disposal facilities will also be provided as necessary. Instruments will
be installed if required to monitor and record stack emiesions
continuously. The Singrauli coal which is being used at Trombay has a
relatively low sulphur content (O.2Z-0.3Z), as have the residual oil and
associated gas, the other fuels to be used at Trombay. Emissions are
therefore not likely to be an environmental hazard. The effect of the
increase in temperature of the condenser cooling water drawn from and
discharged into Bombay Harbor on sea temperature will have no adverse
effect on marine life. Waste effluent from the demineralizers will be
aerated and neutralized to within specified water pollution limits before
being discharged into the sea, and will also have no adverse effects.



-20-
Project Cost and Financing
57.     The total cost of the project, including contingencies and about
US$72 million in taxes and duties, is estimated at about US$361 million
equivalent, of which about US$100 million (28%) represents the estimated
foreign exchange costs. A capitalized front-end fee on the proposed Bank
loan adds approximately a further US$0.4 million (US$337,656) to the
financing required. Interest during construction, amounting to about
US$82 million, is excluded from the estimate since TEC treats it as an
operating expenditure, rather than as a capital cost. The principal cost
romponerts, net of physical and price contingencies, are: steam generator
US$67 million; turbogenerator US$61 million; associated turbogenerator and
steam generator equipment US$58 million; civil works US$27 million;
electrical equipment US$26 million; switchyard and transmission equipment
US$18 million; miscellaneous equipment, and engineering and administration
US$16 million. A special contingency amounting to about US$7 million for
the steam generator has been included to cover the possibility that a
supercritical unit might be adopted. The project cost estimates are based
upon 1983/84 prices for similar equipment. Price contingencies, amounting
to about 232 of base cost, are based on expected inflation rates of 8% for
1984/85, 7Z for 1985/86 through 1987/88, and 6% for 1988/89 and thereafter
for local costs, and 3.5% for 1984, 8% for 1985, and 9% for 1986 through
1988 for foreign costs. Physical contingencies of about 10% on civil
works and 5Z on mechanical and electrical equipment have been allowed,
amounting to about 5Z of base cost.
58.     The proposed Bank loan of US$135.4 million (including the
capitalized front-end fee of about US$0.4 million) will finance 45% of the
foreign exchange costs of about US$100 million and about US$90 million of
the local costs, and will cover 47% of the total project cost, net of
taxes and duties. The balance of the funds required, aggregating about
US$226 million, will be provided from suppliers' credits or foreign
commercial banks (US$55 million), local financing institutions (US$90
million), and TEC's internally generated funds (US$81 million). TEC will
obtain the necessary financing from external sources during the
implementation of the project. In addition, the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India, which will be the leader of a consortium
of local financial institutions, has agreed to provide the required local
funds. The external financing will most likely be used for the purchase
of the turbogenerator, and associated equipment for the turbogenerator and
steam generator.
59.     The proposed loan will be made direct to TEC, at the Bank's
applicable variable rate of interest, for a period of 20 years, including
five years' grace. GOI will provide a loan guarantee, and will charge a
guarantee fee of 2.75% per annum to TEC sufficient to bring the effective
interest rate to a level comparable to the rate at which Bank Group
assistance is made available to public sector companies, currently 13%
per annum. The foreign exchange and interest rate risks will be borne by
TEC. The average inflation rate is expected not to exceed 8% per annum
over the next five years, so the rate of interest charged TEC will be
positive in real terms.



-21-
Procurement and Disbursement
60.     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
(US$ Millions)
Procurement Method               Total
ICB       LCB      Other 1I/  N.A.    Cost
Preliminary Works                                                  3.50     3.50
Civil Works                                   32.10                        32.10
Turbogenerator                                 3.40      71.10             74.50
Turbogenerator Associated          31.51       7.38       7.81             46.70
Equipment                          (18.02)    (0.50)                      (18.52)
Steam Generator                    84.60       3.30                        87.9
(80.10)    (0.50)                      (80.60)
Steam Generator Associated         18.60                10.30              28.90
Equipment                          (10.04)                                (10.04)
Electrical Equipment                23.76      9.34                        33.10
(14.94)                                (14.94)
Misc. Elect. & Mechanical            4.60      7.30                         11.90
(1.93)    (0.50)                        (2.43)
Switchyard & Transmission          14.20      10.10                        24.30
(7.97)    (0.50)                       (8.47)
Supercritical Alternative                      9.50                         9.50
Engineering & Administration                                       8.60     8.60
177.27     82.42     89.21    12.10   361.00
(133.00)    (2.00)    (  -      ( -  ) (135.00)
Note:  (1) Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by the Bank.
(2) Amounts include taxes and duties.
jj Contracts vill be awarded after limited international bidding procedures.
61.     The proposed Bank loan vill be used to finance equipment and
materials under the project. All equipment and materials financed from
the loan, with the exception of items costing less than US$200,000 each,
will be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Indian manufacturers competing under international
competitive bidding will be granted a preference margin of 15Z, or the
current rate of import duty, whichever is less. Local manufacturers are



-22-
expected to be competitive for all equipment contracts.  Procurement
procedures for the turbogenerator and associated equipment for the
turbogenerator and steam generator will depend on the source of financing
for these items (para. 58). Bidding documents and contract award
recommendations on all contracts let under international competitive
bidding and valued at US$500,000 or more will be subject to prior review
by the Bank. Contracts for equipment or materials costing up to
US5200,000 each, and not more than US$2 million in the aggregate, vill be
awarded in accordance with TEC's local competitive bidding procedures,
which are satisfactory. All work and equipment not financed from the
proposed loan, or from the expected suppliers- credits or foreign
commercial bank loans, will be subject to TEC's procurement procedures,
vhich are satisfactor . TFe proceeds of the loan will be disbursed over a
seven-year period (FYB5-91: agaiast normal documentation, and vill cover
100: of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods and OOZ of the ex-factory cost
of goods manufactured in India.
TEC Finances
6Z.     TEC has a successful financial record within the limitations of
the licenses and regulations under which the three companies operate.
TEC-s eartings are regulated primarily by the Electricity (Supply) Act,
1948, as amended, which permits the companies to adjust tariffs once a
year to cover operating expenses (including depreciation, interest and
income tax), certain appropriations to statutory reserves, other special
appropriations and a wargin for profit. While the Act places an effective
ceiling on the earnings of a licensed company, TEC has consistently earned
profits and has paid dividends regularly on its share capital. Investment
has been financed in the past primarily from equity and loan capital,
along with a relatively smalL amount of internally generated funds. TEC's
debt outstanding as of March 31, 1983. represented 69% of its
capitalization, vhich is reasonable for a public utility.
63.     TEC-s investment plan covering the period of six years from
1984185 to 1989190 forecasts an investment of Rs 4,194 million (US$388.4
million equivalent), including US$361.3 million for the project. TEC's
financial forecasts show that cash generation shortfalls will emerge in
1984185 and later years, due to the fact that the annual repayment of its
loans vill exceed its annual depreciation. Accordingly, for the Durposes
of determining tariffs under the Electricity (Supply) Act, TEC will
continue to contribute to a special appropriation for debt redemption to
the extent necessary each year to meet the cash shortfall (Section 5.07 of
Loan Agreement).
64.     TEC's overall financing plan shows that cash generated internally
would provide 21% of the total investment during the six-year period to
1989/90. Interest during construction, amounting to Rs 889 million (US$82
million equivalent), vill not be capitalized, but will be treated as an
operating expenditure. The additional revenue required to meet interest
during construction vould effectively raise the proportion of the
investment program to be financed by TEC from 21% to 35%.



-23-
65.     In order to meet this target, TEC will continue to make
contributions to a special appropriation for project costs, established
under the Third Trombay project to finance in part cost overruns resulting
from increases in civil works costs and customs duties, and from adwerse
fluctuations in exchange rates. TEC has undertaken to contribute an
amount of not less than 3 paise per kWh on all power sold to the special
appropriation for project costs, with effect from April 1, 1984. In
addition, GW( has accepted the principle of this special appropriation and
has accepted as admissible both the past (Third Trombay) and proposed
contributions by TEC to this special appropriation.
66.     The borrowing ceilings for each of TEC-s three companies j  were
raised in September 1983 to levels vhich are more than adequate to cover
forecast borrowing requirements. In order to alert the Bank to any
proposed borrowing which would exceed forecasts, TEC will consult with the
Bank before raising any of the borroving ceilings above their present
levels (Section 5.03 of Loan Agreement).
67.     TEC's borrowings (including the Bank loan) for the Third Trombay
project are secured by mortgages and other charges on TEC's assets and on
its joint and separate licenses. The debentures of the three Companies
which comprise TEC are similarly secured by mortgages and other charges on
their respective assets and licenses, including those jointly owned by
them. The proposed loan will also be secured through a trust deed
(Section 5.05 of Loan Agreement). Creation of an acceptable mortgage is
a condition of effectiveness for the proposed loan (Section 7.01 of Loan
Agreement). Since execution of the trust deed will take a much longer
time, in order not to delay the project we hawe agreed to accept an
equitable mortgage for the purposes of effectiveness of the loan.
Bovever, TEC will execute a trust deed within one year from the
effectiveness of the loan.
Proiect Justification and Risks
68.    The Bank's participation in financing the proposed project
provides it with an opportunity to continue its involvement in the
development of the regional power systems, vhich will lead ultimately to a
national grid, and its support of India's long-range national power
development planning. Our participation in the project also provides the
opportunity for our continued involvement with an efficient,
private-sector organization vith which we have had a long-standing and
effective relationship (our first loan to TEC was made in 1954). The
organization has always provided crucially needed power in an efficient
and effective manner, and we feel justified in our continuing support of
it. The proposed project is justified as a component of the least-cost
11 The company borrowing ceilings are: Tata Rydro-Electric Power Supply
Company, USS330 million plus Rs 2847.5 million; Andhra Valley Power
Supply Company, US$330 million plus Rs 2867.6 million; Tata Power
Company, US$330 million plus Rs 3474.9 million.



-24-
power program for the Western Region, as derived in CA's long-term pover
plan tpara 44), and additionally as a replacement for older geuerators
which are to be retired. The Western Regional program favors relying on a
combination of nev hydro-electric projects and coal-fired thermal stations
located near coal nines or on the coast. Since most of the exploitable
coal reserves of the Western Region are located near its eastern boundary,
the resulting large conceutrations of power generation in a few locations
vould lead to serious problems of availability of land, water supplies,
and high levels of pollution. Also., large quantities of electrical energy
would have to be transmitted over long distances to the load centers. The
Western Regional program accordingly provides for four large thermal
s ations  nit could buru sea-borne coal, located on the coast near load
centers. The proposed project meets this requirement. Moreover, because
of its advanced stage of preparation and because extension of an existing
plant is expected to shorten construction time considerably, the project
should be able to be commissioned two years sooner than any suitable
alternative. The unit at TIombay has the additional advantage, at least
in the short-term, of access to fuels with a lower opportunity cost than
domestic coal. Associated gas which would othervise be flared will be
available during the early years of the project-s life, and the surplus
could vell last for five years or more. Both of the refineries in the
Bombay area will shortly be equipped vith facilities to produce
Isecondary- residual oil. This 'secondary' oil is a difficult product to
handle and there is presently no market for such a product in India. In
the short term, it is well-suited for use as fuel at Trombay. In the long
term, it is possible that developments in refinery technology or other
markets may lead to higher value uses for this product, in which case GOI
would increase deliveries of domestic coal in its place. As TEC cannot
reasonably estimate how long gas and oil will be available at low cost, it
has prudently chosen to design the station in a manner which will
facilitate conversion to a coal-fixed operation.
69.     If the project is treated as an addition solely to the TEC system
and benefits are estimated on the basis of TEC's tariff, the economic rate
of return is about 23.5%. Rowever, if the project is treated as a part of
the Western Region as a vhole, with a concomitant decrease in average
tariff, increase in associated transmission and distribution expenditure
and increase in system losses, the economic rate of return is reduced to
9.4Z. This return, however, is not a reflection of the economic merit of
the project per se-the present degree of load shedding is evidence that
consumers are willing to pay substantially more for electricity than the
present tariffs would suggest. If an allowance is made for industrial
consumers willingness to pay, as measured by the average of the existing
industrial tariff and the cost of generation, the economic rate of return
increases to 13 M.
70.     Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. The major plant (turbo-generator, steam
generator and associated equipment) will be manufactured by firms with
long experience in the manufacture of 500 MW and larger generating units,
so that risks during manufacture, installation and initial operational
phases should not be excessive. Assistance in areas of system design,



C-2
engineering or technology inu which TEC or Tata Consulting Engineers may
not have sufficient experience will be provided if necessary by foreign
consultants who have had extensive experience in the design, supervision
and construction of projects of tbis size.
PART V - LEGAL             AND ATORI
71.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Tata Electric
Companies, the draft Guarantee Agreement between India and the Bank, and
the Report of the Ccrnittee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
72.    Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Creation of security for the loan would be an additional
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement).
73.     I an satisfied that the proposed loan vould comply vith the
Articles of Agreement of the Banrk.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
June 6, 1984



Pag 1 of 5
1302*                 - SOCXIL WEATWS MAT&  U
2301*X                              au~          s  Cown  vain C) a
INDSr                  cur lUlEzWr 39TsU3 lb
mUTT         ~~LOWl ?50in          mL4 1rl
Suar-b    1170-   = ,Va b          ASI & PAC              ABU G  C
aw  c      t . 30
TOM                              3237.6     327.6       321.*6
-   G:WL 2K.                     1760.7     1730.5       K1. 3
GM in CAin Co$)                      70.0       1001.0,    260.0             Z797                    IaMa
(im.omm or 01 mnuZTLU             114.0      160.0       10.0             39.4                     7U.8
i09s.ATT03jEZD-THA  CT.ICAD) 434350.0   567569.0   69L033.0
W        nJ POPoLATI  CR OFs.a-    10.0       19.3       23.7              21.5                     32.9
rOPC.ATZOV fR.;EC-TZ0S
POKLAT10U RI    D 0 Z CO P0L)                         1001.
sTA.72oM32 P01173  (nML)                             1336.3
TMA SOaTROWir PP. U*CNO                              24o0
90101*7I3K DensIT!
PM go. M.                       132.3      16.6       205.3             161.7                    2607
In SQ.  . ANt. 1                247.0      307.5      3727              363.1                   169.5
OP03MATUS' *GI STSONCIUZ (2
0-14 us                         40.9        2._        39.7             36.6                     39.6
15-64 ms                         54.5      5342        57.2              59.2                     57.2
65 ASO AS1E                      4.6         3.1        3.0               4.2                      3.3
P0P01ATION QOWITU lATE (2)
1.3        2.1        2.t               1.9                      2.
URBAN                            2.5         3.3        3.7               4.0                      3.9
CP0e   'ItATE (lEa TIlC)          43.7        40.0       35.4              29.3                     31.3
CRUE DET RATE Ll Ml 1tICS)         21.8       16.7       13.3              10.9                      9.6
3OSS  lR eDUC=0 RATE               2.9         2.7        2.4               2.0                      2.0
FAMM.T IL*30T5
ACCPTRS. AUDOL C(la)             64.0     37M2.0      6t26. 
CZS 0F , HARRI aWl)                .        12.0       23.0              46.1                     46.6
1530or a   M. 303 CAPITA
(1969--71-LO)                     93.0       102.0      107.0             I11.4                    125.2
PM CAPI  S3L.T OF
CLEMS CZ or amuI3Uaf6s)         96.0        90.0       37.0              93.1                    114.2
PREICS  CRANS PM DAY)           54.0        50.0       47.0              56.7                     57.9
Or fCHM AXM.  D A 6LSrE         17.0       15_0       13.0kc            13.9                     14.1
eiD CA03  1-4) D*ATH RATE         26.2        20.7       17.0              12.2                      7.6
LT!z WECrT  Ar Sc1TH (TEAS)        43.2       43.1       52.2              59.6                     60.2
WANT Fr    NAR E (PEAM  CI.00)   165.0       139.0      121.2              96.6                      .1
ACCESS TO SAlE hATER C29OP)
ritL                               ..       17.0       33.016            32.9                     37.1
l:*                                ..       60.0       63.o70            70.3                     54.8
_N..                                         6_0       20.07;1           22.2                     26.4
Acess TO E2CITAZ DISPOSAL
TO7L                               __       18.0       20.0/.            13.1                     41.4
UW                                 .         S.O 850N6.07;               72.7                     47.5
uRl. UL                                      t1.0       Z.O7;             4.7                     33.4
901t0A7709 PER FYSIC!           4350.0      4390.0     3660.0/f          3506.0                   7771.9
PO. PER IIMSING PERSON          1O96.Okl  3300.0       53380.0f          4797.9                   2462.6
POP. PENI 60517L. SDW
TOUL                           21J0O0     1650.0     1310.0/d          1100.6                   1047.2
gum                         -                         370.071           298.4                    651.1
WZ*L                              ..          ..        00oroo7ii     5391.6                    z5K.9
ARtISSON6 PER  OSPlT* RED           .. .- ._  __                                                    27.0
AVERHZ SIZE 0F HOUSEHOLD
TOL                               5.2        5.6        5.2/.
UNRIA                             5.2        5.6        4.67;               _                       _
RCIWA                             5.2        5.6        5.37 
AV4E1AE NO. W PERSONSIROO
TOTAL                            2.6         28 J.                         _        
033*3                             2.6        2.8
R3URL                             Z.6        2.8
ACCESS TO 3.EcIr    OF Dar.ELLHCS)
TOM                                ..         ..
URA                                ..         ...
RtL                                '           ''                           '-



ARMEX I
Page 2 of 5
DIDA                   - SOCL   DICATOS DATA SN
TIID A                               RR1C        PC S CWIG EID AVERA  IS
)MST                      (MST RRET ESTMATE) lb
l960d! 197 M               LOW I0  E           PIO0LE  rXU!E
_96__              ESTThAt           ASr A_ PACIIC          ASA _& _ACIFIC
Esr R.TIO
ADJCSTED ENROLMENT RATIOS
PRTAUrY:  TO1                     61.0        73.0       76_0Jf             96_1                    101_2
MALE                   80.0        90.0        9O.07f           107.8                     106.0
FEMILE                 40.0        560         61.07T            82.9                      97.5
SECOARY: TO.                      20.0       26_0        28S0/f             30.Z                     4.9
KLE                    30          36.0        37.07i            37.3                      50o0
FDIaLE                 10.0        15_0       iu oli             22.2                      -4_6
VOCATIONAL CT OF SECONDARY)          2.5        1.0         0.71J              2.3                     15.5
UPIL-TEACURI RAIrO
PRLMAiR                           46.0       41.0        43.01f             34.4                     32.7
SECODARY                          16.0       210           __-              184                      23_4
ADUTLT LrrIUAm   RATE CZ)           27.9       33.4        36.                53.5                     72.9
PASSIt CARITHOUSANDO POP             0.6        1.1        1l31f               1.6                      9.7
RADO RECEIVERSflUSAW POP             4.9       21.5        44.4-              96.8                    113.7
TV RECEIVERSITOUmSAND POP            0.0        0-0         1.7                9-9                      50.1
UHISPAPR (-DALY CEIUL
DUEREST- ctsracmrrf
PER THCUSAWD POPMATIO              10.6       16.2        19.7               16.4                     54.0
CrUA AIUAL AKTEXDAC*APTA            31_Z        4.1         3.71e              3.6                      3.4
Tom. LAOlR FORCE (TROC5)        185951.0   Z19194.0   Z71179-0                  _
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  30.7       32.5        31.8               33.3                     33.6
ACitCICILIE (PERCENT)             74.0       74.0        69.3               69.0                     50.9
LWUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0       11.0        13.2               15.6                     19.2
PATCIPATIO RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             42.8        40.0       39.3               42.5                     38.6
MALE                              57_0        52.4       51.9               54.4                     50.7
FEPNLF                            27.3       26.9        25.9               29.8                     26.6
C.-IC DEPEIIERC  RATTO               1_1        1.1         1.1                1.0                      1.1
=M DIsmIneVI
PERCEIM OF PRtVATE IRCWSE
RECEIVED B
BIOEST 5 OF H(OUSEHLDS            26.7       26-31b      22.21e             16.5                     22.2
HICIEST 2: OF HO.SgosmDS          51.7       48.9Th-     49.47;             43.5                     48.0
LOWEST 2C0 OF HOUSEHOIDS           4.1        6.77i       7.07;              6.9                      6.4
LWEST 4O? OF OUSEHOLDS            13.6        17.27ii    16.27              17.5                     15 5
PoVM        S TA    CONP
ESrMATED ABSOLGUTE POVErTY INCIE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPTrA)
tRBA.                                                   132.0              133.9                    194.5
RURAL                               .                   114.0              111.6                    155.0
EST. ATIED RELATIVE MPOERT INCCOIE
LEVC CIUSS PER CAPITA)
URRCaN                              ..          ..         ..-                                      178.0
RURAL                                                               -.                              1 6G.8
ESTIMATED POP. RELOW ASOLI.TE
POVERTY ICOIE LEVE. (2)
LXJAR                               .0.                   O 03              43.8                     24.4
RURAL                               .'         ''        50.7               51.7                     41.1
NO AVAILABLE
OT APLICABLE
R OT E S
-I  The group  erages for each Indicator are populattou-weghted aritheetic  eans. roermae o1 countries auoiM the
Indlcetors depends on awallability of data and Ls not uniform.
lb Unless otherwtse noted. -Data for 1960' refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961: -Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for -fost Recent EatcIte- berwee  1979 and 1981.
/c  1977: Id 1976: fe 1975: /f 1978: /  1962: /k 196W65.
May l983



us'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- "f.  I.Al    n                                                -- f   .s-u asIst p-sst
us-SAsS. s-St iss(sai in stiAin atims)  ~~...ItS Li                              Is  qI-I Ss-*      n i  -  sas--S.   in  :1a. -s-a
susas.5 usa ~sss. -9 sie.                                                         asa1sa-s  .aa   -  sas   o-.- tou.  ... -, ,sit  at"            eR~
p-  swi P.-I  _1            -I-1-         ~        ~       ~       saa.a   sa-tiai  n  tis   css,*5s                  sAlma-
Air-III.-n*                           5sa-  eius.   5  su,  ..ia    .aia.
.7.-  WI To-I  -Q -_I_                            1-   .-J.. to                   1~ipas sss-  afl-J  s  -15.s *t  .? S
ji.s -ausaiiP    p-d. - - -Iv              ...C s- As laPinas
5.5.5w. -. in (5555  -    5ia5 iuiPrdi -a aaii - .aa i                    - utui.q O., SAs P -s  91is   ..eIs-.a __            -s  Za.- *   l-   J
Ifss -- s-gIn) 81.  es -T""   ootss    to1i - -s s-.. c. PisasisS3- ins  s-ss    *Is-s-   *iass                                  -  p-ass-is-.  _-  - i-.sa
=sS  inSis vo    511 55 s-v- iiI,o  ass s.-s-S. -ustsy-.                       ia   t .a.2 or I-  I".~s.sn  a- .5.5i  it-i M s-a
isan ass s--a;ft'.otIif   s.         i5                                                -vo5 s  J s-s  - 5 ff.-5If fl5iss   s- A.~ s".  s-_s -a Ifs CiIaL
-iIoooV      l                 .Sd-s  .55-suuss A.5. 115555P555.S3 * .tss  ST"- 35 
"m   I  i N]                                                            I.=      - Ass   55  pssa-  -p-us        nl    t,         ., ZetTa,.
J  "ot .1-M                                   _~~~~~~-sIp in,   t*a   1R   Possu  *5R1 sI-ast PoIsts. P5- ooit-I'
5S is5~  5 is5sS        *s55   0  i   ta.aa  .5  s-u    s-sasI"?sas-si us- iii of                              t. T"-      -WiS. oosisa  P-  .-tw55
sin..  a   ssne- I-u   -   in-usin  i-ni.ssu. s sIussa5  ~   sse..  a  si.,   ma-  ssSnss.a-is nt  s-  iO)  11
s-tjssSisiui  ma                                                             su~~~'L P
55    I5inS5s s-aJ sa. s-Is-Isis isatool0.5  t .64 As p-ISs T-11-  -1i. ii   sis - - 5-s- lNus"a
st-sII. stiM-t"P s  -oloppI,   -  a0          apsti           ShisRs.v--*~                                          - n    i-iias5   it  s             554f1
C s-IliCifltiq  -  Rs  5.5  u5    lii*i .M(iss .a)sis  5it%aa-    5. Anti,;  5555   .AI-                              n   sP--               4-
M=    J.                   -P- ~~~-li- P.a.                                 isnasg  ss.-i,-s      ts                    s   sssnasatss.s-26
5su Iaai5asqit555     atsufis      -   p-u ss- 0 iusn.- -_                                                  -s-is. ssGot   - wet A15-tsrti    Rses
in  aS    - -ao    eSta "ft   -s-Its   -50isI        -si.-i-  s-aCt %suspsSS na-s-  sus.itlC                                                sIst.    ir
inP    pi,i    5. "O"a  AII.Sute.   - Is--sas  ss.                .,~3.                   i    S-is       .- saAS taaj   ns5 51-              tSatssau   i
si-a s-sn                                                                    sin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I at
-J           insse    ss-..:s-s25a js,.    pa  1                                    pA.   is-- lia  s-tooamI"   -5utts  s   -o c      o. -s  n-- W 5i
iAuSlid   :-W -iiS I..asii    sins   ss-s            Is.. .-t --a                                                                                    Sto   s-s 
-mis  as v-si. -I-.             i0i   .55-- -           s-aus-is                                                     -is-si gi        asn   -           :
si-ssa -so     istu  s-Pm a. .4.an  -Ai"55-a5  sadr -555  t-                            pi i _-- as.5a-  t               ii- as1 tm   iiosf     55  oot t.50i5.
2-4 5-sOi  is;. as-s-s-a a- Cs-lss          mm,iin-s aaa                                                                 ft, si                         --1.a
os-isoo J ss-10s-s n-s Lasovi s"""s "'     a    Is85  a             is                  sssss- fan-S  ti-sT.-  As-I sai;es    Jssa.s-  i-A-s
-.51 gins. Ass-u Its      *t        , i ::T Pt. It- --5 to sssap  si    _.as  -  a   -ua-ii   -
- (s-e in  n. iaansi  -tis tIo su         W  -Ss  asiSssR  ss                           a pa.sM l-a   nssi,         - se - A i-,saft    is55 hii  -s1.--Ts
-I.     -      -  -iot.-i         S- --aa--   -A-.:in- 5-ailu-St5   ss55Si
is- So -  5-ssa S      ....... Ptt   ,aS             n£.aSi IMMOus ii4.41 iss  An-.a                             - IsSV. - Isisisft A.5  ssa  iiI0
M - Siusft 5ia  Rui    .Moto 3- 5V s-c                                o, s5l                 -o-o-- as-ai in-,55d.i   I-s- in-                 5i5Isis
teRlitst  as -sasis  i    i-pa      .adpt istCs.asa- Ia-a inl ss-Isssa iai,hssA
m..tm siuP ns ai    nfl_ ao_                   ifuss-   tsns t                          -.s  as-s-Isis-     T  Isn   t--T  5555W   -   tssaisn-A       ns555
'o-DII'to dsvotoPwlsi 't. s-a                                                at cauissus-  s asn- puS-  -  -stIiusIasis  i  --a:
looote    isa--ssaei   sSPL5 M= m1 As Anus  inst.                                                                       ioa    .   as5.                  ii
IIOs  Als  as S-QO  - go--  in"  A -ss-M  -  R--oa                                       lt-.Ps.aaJ   "o"'o                  to-M, -s a  esissulS.
- n-s tsUa     -tin    a  stt     .ssas   OS-Es"                                     Lsitss,a-                   -iiii   ssfu,saisSs   S.
t-Ms  s.iatsu  s--a  dtsi    'iu.stootoCtins9- iteti                                  sauus-an ls-"ashl   as -s u     at - V--nmti--     t   asiItg
-5ts-itnuiuo   011.   un    n                                              1siIs   s  ssgs  so-GssstsaI's is-satoo sisags i   LiitnAs-s-
- uuea in -ass -"s-  - 55-Atia     r  aiiis-5 iSssha - -a11ou iano '9 i.55 sus-           -   in"  R51"Im s-a5   aostolWas -i  Jst-, -f-   Sffit- s-isWm -
s-s  -stw   mi-iS   uni  ist,oo  -as-s-s   .-ri-. " ~                  -I          S.-u  -     is-tii  aw-       ot, si   StieL i          -As-St   s-ft S
of  -i     goim. PsAtass tua            v i    -A -J its-vio    "t -  insis- asiosmf  s-8    tan            -1iiisa   osus Ito Aos -      ji55i  55   s-i     ssu
a   im  Issi  in, -i-nss           -- -i.-,-  -i  iSi --M  "50 ro, -p                     s-a-s 1pm   ji --  ----istiMiiI    --si   ito 550 -a ot-ool "5   -ii
usa  n  us                   GI"-    Iwit-a -as   --sa   111,1s- In- -as s-IM MtotjssGW     ---          oo olo   otpsac in    W-s  5c J.ss -ft              s-
All- ~      M "   -tiA Jn is   lst m5 at gas-ta MIsss s.I-Its0         IowtoIto.               e-   IT -                tsoo            rf- -    -do1
.ast,as-  ssur   i  sn  n    a   lstsnas sussus-isc  n   as   hR  R ti i,m-  i                                    t        5   it        - 
;O    E          u-s5         inss-e    e  ssti  iutm                                                                                          O?ii



raw 4 of S
- -r DAT
OW PM CaVUA IN 1981 t56260 I/
cIss uItnC PRDUCT IN 19SVU3 bt                                               AUWAL MM 0?           CZ, Constant Price) c/
1955156.-19S9/60 1960/6t-1964/65 1965166-1969170 1970/71-1974175 1975/76-19791au
uS$51. U 
GO  Carkat Prces                   170.74   100.0                   3.7               3.6              3.7              2_9              4.1
Crom D*metlc Inuat                  41.99   24.6
cram National Sawin                3S.12    22.3
CMrrent ACCt Belance             - 3.87  - 2.3
OUTPUT. 1A*30  FOC AD 10I t  31961
Value added (at factor met)       Labor Forme 11      *'A  Per wbzke
M  Vim-                7          mu- S               05   S  of 11ional A_urog
Agriculture                        51.7                 35.1        172-7    70.6       299        50
xn&ucry                            35.2                 23.9         31.6    12_ 9     1114       185
sereice                            60.6                 41.0         40.3     1S.S    1504        249
ToaI/Averae                       147.5              1l0.0         24.6   100.0        603       1O0
-r  71Q-
Cenrad CGovernme   ./                             Catral Covermat
R.- sin.           X of GO                     a. sin.            Z oaf CW
N9OTE83    1932/B3    D975/79-113z9B3 19813               19613   197U/79-192/83
Curant Receipts                     333.34      20.3           19.5                175.61       10.7          O.S
Currant Reediturme                  340.09      20.7           19.0   -            188.59       11.5          I0.6
Currt Su fplUa/Oeficii             - 6.75    - 0.4              0.5               - 12.96      - 0.8         - 0.4
Capital bp.ndituree El              131.21       8.0            8.1 9S.13                        51            5.7
Reterua hAsiltauc  (net) d/          19.30       1.2            1.0
01. czzuT AND FUCs               190/71 Q1975176  19779M  197817   19/t80  1980/81  1981/12  1912/63  February 1983 February 194
Can 3131,1m  oututandia  at and of peio)
wne and Sali Rney                    109.8   226.8   329.1  *01.1   472.3   555.5   624.9   723.8              711.7          345.7
Rak CreiLt to  _owert  (1et)         54.6   106.3   137.3  l19.3   200.1   257.2   309.1   352.4               353.5          406.6
Rank Cedit to Cinrecal Sector        64.6   156.2   2122    255.3   310.1   363.5   430.5   504.5              487.7          576.4
(Percentae or lud_m   mere)                             Ahr-Feb 1962183 Apr-Fab 1983/84
of GM                              27.3    30.3    36.7    41.1        6.1    43.6    42.0    44.0
Wholeeale Pric  Inx
(1970171 - 100)                   100.0   173.0   185.8   185.8   217.6   257.3   231.4   288.6              285.1             314.8
wholesale pr   Inde                   7.7    -1.1       5.2      -       17.1   I.2        9.6      2.6         2.3                9.3
B  Cradit to Goverinm     (et)       15.0    22.7    16.3    16.0    25.6    28.5    20.2    14.0               21-0 j             18.9 h/
3mb Credt to cwrci1a  Sector         19.4    22.7    12.6    20.2    21.5    17.2    18.4    17.2               15.5 ,             17.9 Ei
AJ  7e per CaPIta GM eariate 1a at nerht pgiee. elag World 8mb Ulm methodology. beae perio  1979-19I.
U1 other cnweraloea to dolle  in dtle table ae at the average inchert prewaliag during the period covered.
b/ Qdek Estimates. Caurrna Statistical Organizatiom.
ci Coteot from  tred clin of C   at factr coat aeia. inludig oa  ooervatio  before firet pear And o  obeervatia  after Lat year of
nated Perid.
d/ hanId tB_ estiates of not diabe_rait of conceaeioaa aid ad I=.
e   Ttafe  betun  Cautr  m  Stacte  hav beoa nettad  oot
/  l  lowe  ad I    _  to thid  pertae have bean netted out.
Ipercentage cbe    fro  ead-ercht 1962 to  d-Pebrunry 1983.
Prcenta_ chag  fine ms-4arth 1963 mo m-_Frbeary 1984.
1  Total Labor Force a  percentae brabdin frn  1961 Canie.  hdudoa data for Amman.



AR I
POW 5 of 3
LASCE lOF PAMUMS                       19308    1581/82   1928W   1963/84'             mI3I     Kz    0Ns  AVUA  19MMO-19 58210  g/
CMSS "In-)                                                                                                              1         S
Exzprts of Goode I/                     6.506      6.519    8.001    8.466             igageng Coods t                 560       12
Iag.zra of Goos f/                    -16.204   -15.500  -14.249   -14.412             Tom                             433        6
Trade Dalacem                         - 7.700  - G.S9I  - 6.2       - 5.946            Gm                              779        9
MIES (net)                               1.365      974       9a        856            Claohing                        573        7
LXhew  n Iata.r Producs    480            6
Resource Usianc                       - 6,33S   - 6.007  -  30S       5.090            J         Cue                   333        4
Iran Ore                       380 S
Lnterest berm  (net) hI                   600       286   -  41 -   648                Cotto  TeItiles                 328        4
sat Transfers I/                         2.771     2.318     1.849     1.790             gr                             86        1
Others                       3.849       46
SaLance oa Curr.t Account             - Z.964   - 3.403   - 3.874     3.948
Official Loans a Grants                                                                Total                         8.2A3      100
Cros Disburernots                       2.6S1      2,70     3.086    3.441              IIU  L VW, NARQ 31. 19S3
AortItzAon                            -   700  -  674  -   701          783
MSS billi
Tranaction with DIIF (nt)               1.035      690      1.9S0     1.295           Otstandin  m  Diabersd                    19.6
All Otber Items o/                     -   367   - 1.581        12      531            Ondisbur_d                                11.1
t                                                                       04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Otatandio  incldin  Ihdbr_d  30.7
Increase in (erves-)                      345     2.391   -  503  -   536
Gross Uaserve  Cud year) E.              6.59     4.461    4.964     5.500            DV  SEICE XTIO   3 1912183 t/   f    10.1 pwr ct
Mat Deserves (and year) s/              6_532      3.497    2.08      1.449
IuSD/Mh& Lin. YAQ 31. 1934 31
Fuel and Related Kataris
Imports (Pecreolus) J/                  66.72     5.S90     4.613    3.395                                                 I-        ML
O 0t0Atni  and  Dlburad             1.86     7.924
U.diarsad                          Z.OSI    4.331
Onmatcading inludiug Uodiaburaed   3.907    12.255
RATE OF UOWXA
June 1966 ;a dld-DPcer 1971       :  US$1.00 - Rs 7.50
Rs 1.00 - USS0-13333
Kid-DPAcber 1971 ge end-Jun  1972:   US$l.O - Rs 7.Z7927
as 1.00 - osse0137376
After  '-Jjn   1972                :   loatig Rars
Spot Rate end-March 1983           :  US$10W - as 10.0501
Rs 1_00 - 1#0_0997
Spot Rate  nd-arch 1984            :  USS1.00 - no 10.7181
Me 1.00 - 1150.0933
kFgures gives cower all in,ust Icm  (net). major peyinto ae interest on foreig  lam sd cer_ee PAd to DRY. S  major recaipt Is
interet ariad an foreign asses.
1/ Figures given incd  worker' rrdttnca  bet exclude offiel grant aseistee abiab is included withfi officile leam  ad grants. end
non-residen deposits ubich are inluded vithin all other Items.
Im  Exclud  net use of VW credit.
O/ Artizstion end interest pepsA  on foraigs loans _ a perenetag  of tcotal curre t receipts.
o/ 1aclude exchang  rate adjustmets to the valuatiou of reserves  d finacin  of imbalances in cupee trade.
cluding gold.
Nl et of crude petrole   e perts.
r/  Inluding Iran sad steel.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANR GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1984)
USS million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank        IDA jj      Undisbursed jI
49 Loans/                                              1,766.5         -
85 Credits fully disbursed                                 -       4,858.4             -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                        -          30.0          10.28
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                       -          27.7           4.78
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                   -         105.0           0.21
604-IN    1976     Power Transmission IV                  -         150.0           0.13
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -          18.0           0.95
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -            37.55
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                      25.0         -            14.29
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0         -             2.84
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -          30.0          10.19
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -          20.0           1.86
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power               -         150.0           2.82
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0           8.92
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0         -             4.08
712-IN    1977     M.P. Agric. Development                -          10.0           0.29
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -          23.0           4.00
728-IN    1977     Assam Agricultural Development         -           8.0           3.38
736-IN    1978     Haharashtra Irrigation                -           70.0           1.91
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -         107.0          56.87
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II         -          87.0           1.88
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                          -            8.0           5.22
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0         -             1.97
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Pover         105.0         -             4.20
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                   -         117.6          45.64
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                    -         200.0          33.59
806-IN    1978     Jammu-Kashbir Horticulture            -           14.0          10.76
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -          85.0           3.99
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -          17.5           9.51
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -          16.0           6.74
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0         -            20.61
824-TN    1978     National Dairy                         -         150.0          60.67
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -         196.0         148.04
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -          190.0          34.79
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           6.88
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -          27.0          15.87
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0           4.82
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -          30.0           1.76
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -            50.00



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 3
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Pover             -          200.0         18.95
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0         48.83
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply              -           48.0         12.19
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0         16.16
925-IN    1979     Uttar Pcadesh Social Forestry         -           23.0          5.42
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra -:rrigation II            -          210.0         58.97
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Comunity Forestry             -           37.0         10.82
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                     -           20.0         16.86
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -           46.0         30.84
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0         21.19
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0        111.93
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                             -           22.0         16.98
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                 -          300.0        172.64
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0          8.08
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -           56.0         21.32
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0         35.56
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0         57.17
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                  100.0          -            7.71
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -           25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0        118.94
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -           22.73
1925-IN    1981     Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0            -            2.92
1072-IN    i981      Bihar Rural Roads                    -           35.0         17.11
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0         51.69
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0         20.91
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium irrigation                -          140.0         99.94
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0        111.50
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0         41.97
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          400.0        165.74
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0         15.75
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0         19.C9
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0         30.42
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -          125.0         80.24
1172-IN    1982     Korba rhermal Power Project II        -          400.0        297.60
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0        175.64
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0          -           28.41
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0         22.42
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0         18.67
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                          150.0          -           81.49
2076-IN    1982     Ranmagundam Thermal Pover II        300.0          -          300.00
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                             190.0          -            5.43
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0          5.05
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization         200.0          -          123.52
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5          -          290.68
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -           20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0         34.69
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0         66.53
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and



ANNEX 1I
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA jj     Undisbursed g
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0         27.65
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -            -
Irrigation II                      -           31.0         22.87
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0        117.32
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -          148.22
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0          -          197.04
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -          200.0        192.83
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development       222.3          -          133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0        129.18
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0         96.62
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -          170.0        158.07
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4          -          156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III        -          147.0        145.05
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization         -          32.0          31.13
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -           22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission          250.7          -          250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -           46.08
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1          -           24.04
1397-IN    1984     Oriisa Irrigation II                  -          105.0         97.97
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -          31.0          31.0
1426-IN    1984     Population III                        -           70.0         70.0
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry             -           27.0         27.0
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply*              -          36.5          36.5
Total                                   5,183.2    12,015.7
of which has been repaid              1.298.8        153.5
Total now outstanding                   3,884.4    11,862.2
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 31       3,884.4    11,862.2
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,021.25    3,701.25
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRIUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1984.
Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     ComPanY                      Loan      Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Hahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3     13.1
1964            Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                        6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0          -       38.0
1981            Nahindra, Nahindra Limited            15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3        -        2.3
19B1            Nagarjuna Steels Limited               1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8         -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.8        -       15.8
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.3        -        8.3
1984            The Gvalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       4.3         -       4.3
TOTAL GROSS COMMITHMENTS       211.8       12.1    223.9
Less:   Sold                         53.0        3.4     56.4
Repaid                       32.0        -       32.0
Cancelled                    16.0       1.4      17.4
Now Held                    110.8       7.3    118.1
Undisbursed                  81.2         -      81.2



ANNEX III
INDIA
FOURTH TROMBAY THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:         Timetable_of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the -roject
About three years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the proiect
Tata Electric Companies.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the proiect
The project was first presented to the Bank in late
1982; an appraisal mission visited India in February
1983.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
February 10, 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 18, 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1984.
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Execution of mortgage by TEC (condition of loan
effectiveness, para 67);
(b) Extensior of TEC's licenses (para 50);
(c) Provision of adequate fuel supplies (para 53); and
(d)  Continuation of provision for special appropriation for
debt redemption (para 63).



lBRD 1727
ocroBER 1913
INDIA
FOURTH TROMBAY THERMAL POWER PROJECT
LICENSEES'AREAS OF SUPPLY
SUPwLY AREAS:'
//BORIVEIt           ~~KOLStIEr      yMBARNAl|                                                                                      tE
@11:     BREST
GIES
B ! zf-                                                                                                                             gSIS | )s MSEil\ ! _ .  110 KV TRIANSMISSICON LINES
\  1000 KVA I   rFt    v            ^    \            FROU TEC AND WPPEIE9        /        \                             O            1:E C 110/22 KV RECEIVING STATIONS
SAKI                                                                                                                t       MSiOPOINTS OF SUPPLY TO TIC
B   0      M    tS A                                                                                                              t E C POINTIS OF*CA;  LY TO Mill
CHJ                                                                                                                                       (T \  i  'ITEC) TTCa Electric Compwl.,
(RESTI Sumt.y Elecilic Supply wnd Tacnpot
ISSESI 6nmboy Suburbln Electric Suiply
M l MISI a 1 itrahl  1IC.: Electricilty Brd
MAHALAXMI#Iglg  
XC AR NAC                                       IA            ;V E E                                                                          INDIA  LANKA
@ :         EE~IEPHANTA                                                      0         ri        10         16        20                                           d
KILOMETE1IS                                  9oay
Fro Cwoxvm Ph. J       " &ONO mNW b-    f ihw an ha MP 3r 
,* ol "S ef of low V/twU oikmm ft Wwov frav¢ como% "   "4no
on rhw ksp stim   m d vAv co P "t^  a  isw  mr oce*f¢ m olfe di 6 imnwat         SR LANK






