Report No. PIC5054
Project Name                     Indonesia-Information Infrastructure and ...
Applications Development Project (IIADP)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Telecommunications
Project ID                       IDPE48715
Borrower                         Government of Indonesia
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Tourism, Post and
Telecommunications (MTPT); Agency for the
Assessment and Application of Technology
(BPPT), PT Pos, Ministry of Finance,
BAPPENAS
Contact                          Jonathan L. Parapak, Secretary General, MTPT
Department of Tourism, Post and
Telecommunications
J.L. Medan Merdeka Barat No. 17
Jakarta 10110 Indonesia
Phone: (6221) 3849142
Fax: (6221) 3867600
Date initial PID prepared        March 1997
Date this update prepared        March 1997
Project Appraisal Date           May 1997
Project Board Date               June 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      The GOI fully recognizes the importance of extending and
improving the use of information technology (IT) in all areas of
the economy, to support national development and to ensure
Indonesia's competitiveness in global markets, which are becoming
increasingly "information driven". GOI's current REPELITA VI was
the first to have a specific chapter devoted to "Information and
Statistical Systems". It identified five policy measures for
developing the management and use of information technology in all
sectors, as follows:
-- improving the management of information systems which are
capable of increasing the efficiency and productivity of
development, together with the creation of a culture of information
awareness;
-- improving the capabilities of information technology industries,
aimed at national self-sufficiency in the information area;
-- improving the utilization and dissemination of information both
inland and abroad, for creating added value;
-- qualitative and quantitative improvement of human resources in
the field of information technology; and



-- developing and managing institutional information systems.
2.      There are clear indications that applications and information
infrastructure development will be a major platform on which the
REPELITA VII will feature the development of the electronics
industry and the development of the information super-highway,
NUSANTARA-21--a plan the GOI announced in November 1996 that would
connect the 27 provincial capitals with various 'backbone'
transmissions and broad bandwidths for voice and data
communications, as well as the three growing regional communication
links, namely Singapore-Johor-Riau, Brunei-Indonesia-Malaysia-
Philippines, and the Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand growth triangle.
The Government has also set a target of providing a truly universal
postal service by extending the postal communications network to
cover all residents of Indonesia by year 2001. In doing so, the
Government would also like to increase the role of the private
sector and other local agencies in the extension of the postal
communications network. Since joining the WTO in January 1995, the
GOI has also embarked on an ambitious program to improve the
effectiveness of its intellectual property rights regime, which is
critical to software industry and electronic commerce development.
Project Objectives and Description
3.      The objectives of the project are to:
(i)     Extend and intensify communications and information networks
to facilitate sustainable regional development and economic growth.
This is achieved through the following:
(a)     Extend postal communication network to the rural regions to
establish a basic communications medium for the first time;
(b)     Extend Email, Internet and tourism information services
selectively to promote wider usage for information access towards
the promotion of knowledge acquisition and economic growth; and
(c)     Introduce new value added services using existing postal and
electronic networks to be able to respond effectively to rapidly
changing global market needs to gain competitive advantage.
(ii)    Develop appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks that
would effectively create the enabling environment for the provision
of above services in a sustainable manner, and that would foster
further development of information infrastructure in Indonesia
beyond this project.
(iii)   Strengthen institutional capability and capacity in the
relevant agencies and administrations, namely MTPT, PTPos,
IPTEKNet, and BAPPENAS, to be able to efficiently manage the new
information networks and to be able to undertake further
development. With respect to catalyzing broader development of the
networks rapidly, the project promotes private sector partnerships
in the provision and management of information networks and
systems.
(iv)    Establish a program to promote private sector development at
- 2 -



the user end of the value chain of information services in order to
stimulate sustainable market development that would effectively
utilize the new or enhanced supply of information services. The
program is focused on alleviating the primary bottleneck that
exists in developing the private sector in the information services
industry.
4.      Components will include: (a) technical assistance, training,
and advisory services to improve the legal and regulatory framework
and the public sector framework for IT; (b) technical assistance
and equipment to strengthen capacity, capability and support
systems within PT Pos and extend its postal network to cover remote
areas, and to pilot the design of a tourist information service in
the WARTELs; (c) technical assistance, training, and equipment to
expand the science and technology network (IPTEKnet); and (d) a
cost sharing scheme for advisory services to improve good
technology practices targeted at small and medium enterprises.
Implementation
5.      The borrower will be GOI. The MTPT will have overall
responsibility for project coordination.
Project Cost and Financing
6.      The total project is currently estimated at US$69.8 million,
with a Bank loan tentatively placed at US$56.7 million.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
7.      The project will contribute to the Bank's country assistance
objectives of enhancing competitiveness for delivery of services
and of regional development. Project components foster private
sector involvement in the provision of information and
communication services, and overall private sector development in
the mail related business. Enhanced communication linkages will
lead to reductions in transactions cost in the delivery of services
and to bringing outlying regions into the global economy.
Furthermore, by improving the legal framework for IT, it will
promote greater foreign direct investment in information technology
products and services, an area of trade where Indonesia lags behind
competitor countries like Malaysia and Thailand.
Project Sustainability
8.      The implementation of the following measures should generate
a sustainable mechanism for project financing and implementation of
the investment programs: (a) introduction of appropriate cost-
sharing schemes for the S&T users of IPTEKnet; (b) project design
is directed towards ensuring that once the Framework for public
sector IT investments is implemented, government agencies will be
able to apply it for themselves; (c) development of a more
effective system for dispute prevention and resolution and public
awareness activities will further strengthen the new IPR legal
framework. Finally, MTPT's two-pronged approach to progressively
- 3 -



liberalize the postal market in order to provide sufficient near-
term protection to PT Pos to strengthen internal capability over
time, while exerting pressure on PT Pos through a defined
liberalization plan, as well as extending its postal network to
cover remote areas, will create a "level playing field" once the
market is fully liberalized.
Environmental Aspects
9.      Category C is proposed for this project.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending mAY 2, 1997.
- 4 -



