Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17106-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$34.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IIDP)
October 16, 1997
Finance and Private Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 = Rp 3533
(exchange rate as of October 16, 1997)
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
Apnrl 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS              National Development Planning Agency
BPPT                  Agency for Assessment and Application of Technology
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA                  Canadian International Development Agency
CPMIU                 Coordinating Project Management Implementation Unit
DAPATI                Matching Grant Fund for Industrial Technology Development
DGCPT                 Directorate General of Copyrights, Patents and Trademarks
DG Tourism            Directorate General of Tourism
ETIS                  Electronic Tourism Information System
FY                    Fiscal Year of the BorroNver
0OI                   Government of Indonesia
IIDP                  Information Infrastructure Development Project
IPR                   Intellectual Property Rights
IPTEKnet              Science and Technology Network
ISP                   Internet Service Provider
IT                   Information Technology
IT Framework          Framewvork and Strategv for National Information Systems Development
ITU                   International Telecommunications Union
JICA                  Japan International Cooperation Agency
MOF                   Ministrv of Finance
MOJ                   Ministrv of Justice
MOIT                  Ministrv of Industry and Trade
MTPT                  Ministry of Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications
NUSANTARA-2 1         Indonesia Action Plan to provide voice and
multimedia data communications to capital cities
N2 I SC               NUSANTARA 21 National Steering Committee
PAD                   Project Appraisal Document
Japan PHRD Fund       Japan Polic% and Human Resource Development Fund
PIMPRO                Project NManager
PMIU                  Project Management Implementation Unit
R&D                   esearch and Development
ROI                   Republic of Indonesia
Vice-President            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director          Dennis De Tray
Sector Manager            Hoon Mok Chung
Task Team Leader          Robert Schware



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (cont'd)
REPELITA VI          Sixth Five Year Development Plan
S&T                  Science and Technology
SEKNEG               State Secretariat
SIMRENAS             National Development Planning Information System
SME                  Small and Medium Enterprises industries including cooperatives
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
TA                   Technical Assistance
TAP4 1               Teclnical Assistance Project for Infrastructure
TATP                 Technical Assistance and Training Program
TOR                  Terms of Reference
TRIPS                Agreement on Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights
WARTEL               Independently operated public telecommunications outlet
WB                   World Bank
WIPO                 World Intellectual Property Organization
WTO                  World Trade Organization






REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IIDP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BLOCK A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .............................................................I
I.  Project Development Objective and  Key  Performance Indicators ..............................I
BLOCK B:  STRATEGIC CONTEXT .............................................................1
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy Goal Supported
by the Project ...........................................................1
2.  Main  Sector Issues and  Government Strategy ...........................................................I
3.  Sector Issues to  be Addressed  by the Project and   Strategic Choices ............                                    .............2
BLOCK  C:  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  SUMMARY  ............................                                        .................................3
1.  Project Components ...........................................................3
2.  Key  Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported  by the Project .................................5
3.  Benefits and  Target Population  ..........................................................5
4.  Institutional and Implementation  Arrangements .........................................................5
BLOCK D: PROJECT RATIONALE .............................................................8
1.  Project Alternatives Considered  and Reasons for Rejection .......................................8
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the WB and
Other Development Agencies ...........................................................8
3.  Lessons Learned  and  Reflected  in the Project Design  ................................... .............9
4.  Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ...............................                                  ................9
5.  Value Added of WB  Support in this Project ..........................................................   10
BLOCK E: PROJECT ANALYSES ............................................................                                                           10
I.  Economic .......................................................... 10
2.  Financial ..........................................................   11
3. Technical ..........................................................                                                            12
4.  Institutional .......................................................... 12
5. Social ..........................................................                                                               13
6.  Environmental Assessment ..........................................................                                            13
7.  Participatory Approach  .......................................................... 13
BLOCK  F:   SUSTAINABILITY  AND RISKS ............................................................ 13
1. Sustainability .......................................................... 13
2.  Critical Risks ..........................................................                                                      14
3.  Possible Controversial Aspects ..........................................................                                      14
BLOCK  G:  MAIN  LOAN  CONDITIONS  ............................................................ 15
BLOCK H: READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION . ............................................................ 5
BLOCK  I:  COMPLIANCE WITH  WB  POLICIES .......................                                          ................................... 16



LIST OF ANNEXES
I     Project Design Summary
2     Detailed Project Description
3     Estimated Project Costs
4     Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Sununary
5     Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities
6     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
7     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
8     Documents in the Project File
9     Status of Bank Group Operations
10    Indonesia at a Glance
Map



The Republic of Indonesia
Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Indonesia Country Unit
Date: October 16, 1997                                Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Robert Schware
Telecommunications & Informatics, IENTI
Country Manager/Director: Dennis De Tray              Sector Manager/Director:  Hoon Mok Chung
Country Director, EACID                              Finance & PSD, EASFP
Project ID: LL-42169    Sector: Finance & Private     Program Objective Category: PV
Sector
Lending Instrument: SIL                               Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes   [X] No
Project Financing Data                [X] Loan       []  Credit   [ ]  Guarantee  []   Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M):  US$34.5million
Proposed Terms:                         [    Multicurrency    [X] Single currency (US$)
Grace period (years): 3            [    Standard         [X] Fixed         []       LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$M):
Local            Foreign             Total
GOI                                                       10.0              0.2            10.2 (19%)
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                       5.4             29.1            34.5 (65%)
IDA
Other: Private Sector                                      8.5                             8.5 (16%)
Total        23.9              29.3           53.2 (100%)
Borrower: Republic of Indonesia
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agencies: MTPT, BPPT, BAPPENAS, MOIT, SEKNEG, MOJ (DGCPT)
Estimated disbursements (WB FY/US$M):                           1998    1999       2000     2001    2002
Annual                          3.0      8.0     11.5      8.0      4.0
Cumulative                         3.0      11.0     22.5     30.5    34.5
Project Implementation Period:   Expected effectiveness date: January 12, 1998  Expected closing date: June 30, 2003






Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page I
Country: Indonesia                               Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
A: Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators
The project development objective is to enhance private sector participation in the provision of information
technology (IT), post and tourism services through the removal of barriers to entry. A more conducive
environment will facilitate the modernization and growth of IT and communications services. Key
performance indicators are:
* Formulation of draft legislation protecting software, data, and integrated circuits.
*  Increased private sector participation in new value-added services in information services, post, and
tourism services.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project (see Annex 1)
The project objective, to remove barriers to entry in IT services, will support the country assistance strategy
(CAS) goal of enhancing private sector involvement in infrastructure and thus promote a shift from the
current public sector approach for infrastructure to greater reliance on the private sector to deliver
infrastructure services (CAS; 1669 1-IND; dated 6/13/97 and discussed at the Board 7/10/97).
Improved information infrastructure will enhance Indonesia's access to world-wide information and facilitate
the flow of technology and knowledge within the archipelago. Thus the activities of the project would also
support several important CAS objectives: improving infrastructure services; improving the framework for
private-public interaction; legal and institutional development; sustaining high economic growth with equity;
and attaining more balanced regional development.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
Information Infrastructure
Indonesia currently lags far behind comparator countries in the development of its information
infrastructure. 1 A 40-nation study by ITU ranked Indonesia below all countries except India. Indonesian
industry is also behind comparator countries in supplying a range of IT products and services, especially to
the fast-growing markets of the region. The country lacks a strong domestic base and there are few
partnerships between global IT companies and indigenous companies. There is a scarcity of spezialized
informatics professionals and the GOI lacks an explicit policy to build an informatics workforce. The private
sector is responding by expanding private training as well as in-company training.
Barriers exist to private entry in a number of IT services (including Internet service) and there is no
regulatory framework for the development of a new generation of informatics applications. Especially critical
is inadequate intellectual property protection (particularly for software, data, and integrated circuits) which is
undermining Indonesia's attractiveness for foreign direct investment by major IT firms. High tariffs on
computer hardware, software, semiconductors, and telecommunications equipment are also constraining
growth in IT investment.
Many of Indonesia's East Asian neighbors (Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and most recently
Malaysia) have already devoted considerable resources to formulating national IT policies, and developing
human and organizational potential for the utilization of IT. The pace of change in this field is accelerating
and Indonesia risks being left further behind its competitors. There is growing recognition in Indonesia,
however, that information infrastructure is crucial for national competitiveness and social development.
GOI's strategy, supported by this project, is to remove barriers to entry into IT services by strengthening its
institutional capacity, developing action plans, and focusing on a few key areas of IT application to accelerate
change. Since 1994, GOI has taken steps to privatize telecommunication services. In 1996, GOI formed a
The terms information infrastructure and informatics refer to a broad range of technologies that transmit, store, and
manipulate information electronically, generally in a digital format. This information can take the form of a human
voice (conventional telephony), a scanned image, video, or computer data. Services and products that rely on the
information infrastructure include the networked PC, the cellular phone, Internet services, paging, electronic
commerce, and direct broadcast digital TV.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 2
Country: Indonesia                             Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
National Steering Committee for IT Competitiveness, known as NUSANTARA-2 I Steering Committee
(N21 SC), including private sector representatives. GOI plans to connect the 27 provincial capitals with
various backbone data transmission systems to handle voice, text data, and image data communications.
Indonesia has recently (Dec. 1996) subscribed to the WTO Ministerial Agreement on Trade in Information
Technology Products to create a free trade IT market by the year 2000. Lower product prices are expected to
substantially increase IT utilization and provide better opportunities for both buyers and sellers to
productively use and supply informatics. New laws were also passed and ratified in May 1997 in support of
the commitments made by Indonesia under the TRIPS Agreement and the Berne Convention for the
Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, including compliance with intellectual property rights (IPR).
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
The key issues to be addressed by the project include:
* Legal and regulatory impediments for the efficient protection of the intellectual property rights regime
* Barriers to entry in IT services
* Limited capabilities of SMEs to utilize IT
Strategic Choices:
Private versus Public Provision of Information Infrastructure
* Public provision of an Internet access backbone for a science and technology (S&T) network is planned,
with private sector participation in regional nodes. The S&T network will be organized as a public-private
partnership involving cost sharing of network infrastructure and programs. In other countries (e.g., the US
and Brazil) initial public support of S&T networks has shown to provide more cost effective access to the
R&D frontier and to play a catalytic role in increasing the demand for information services and modes of
delivery by the private sector. Cross-country experience has also shown that public-private partnership is
essential to growth of the Internet (e.g., the US, Canada, Brazil, Hong Kong). As part of the project policy
options will be considered to eventually handover Internet provision to the private sector.
- Public-private partnership will also be a key feature of an electronic tourism information system (ETIS)
demonstration pilot supported by the project. The tourism industry currently suffers from limited access to
databases in the rapidly expanding domestic tourist sector, limited connectivity to international tourist
information services among small and medium-scale tourism providers, and duplication and out-of-date
consumer information. The project will initiate an effort which, if successful, would be taken over by the
private sector for full development. Building the entire ETIS system within the private sector was
considered but rejected in favor of the private-public model because: (a) access to government data
sources is not available to the private sector; (b) businesses limited to private sector alone are confined
to a narrow range of options; (c) the cost to keep the data useful is prohibitive for some companies,
especially those working independently and SMEs; and (d) there is already good cooperation between
the private and public sectors in the industry. Alternatively, building the entire ETIS system within a
government agency was also considered, but past experience in Indonesia and other countries has shown
that the high maintenance costs of information requirements and services are impossible to meet with
limited government budgets. The preferred approach of public and private sector cooperation in tourism
data and cost sharing has proved to be successful in other countries (e.g., British Columbia in Canada).
* Continued support for the NUSANTARA 21 Steering Committee will build an on-going dialogue between
GOT and the private sector about the direction and content of Indonesia's IT policies. (A number of
reports and conferences have already stimulated closer public-private sector cooperation on IT, including
the MTPT-commissioned report The State of the IT Sector in Indonesia and the WB-supported
Conference on Ensuring National Competitiveness in the Information Economy, April 1996.)
* Support for implementation of the government-wide Framework and Strategy for National Information
Systems Development (the IT Framework) will improve government procurement of IT goods and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 3
Country: Indonesia                               Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
services from the private sector. A pilot at the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS)
will strengthen development, monitoring, and evaluation of the country's budget, data sharing and
integration, and decentralization of development planning. This support follows from the October 1996
workshop sponsored by BAPPENAS, the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and the
WB in which a draft Framework and Strategy for National Information Systems Development was drawn
up.
* More advanced trading partners are beginning to require IT and electronic commerce capabilities as a
condition for doing business. However, there is limited awareness, particularly among SMEs, of the
strategic opportunities and implications of IT use. The project will, through a cost-sharing scheme,
facilitate private sector access to know-how for improved productivity, quality, and response times.
Gradual versus Rapid Approach
* A gradual, pragmatic approach is being taken to put in place the basic legal and regulatory framework and
to support demonstration activities with the aim that the private sector will become the driving force in IT.
With initial emphasis on improving the fundamental legal framework and obtaining concrete benefits
from a few demonstration projects, Indonesia will have time to develop human resources, generate the
coordination necessary for effective action in the informatics sector, and learn from more rapid and
ambitious (and riskier) approaches elsewhere.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project Components (see Annex 2for detailed description and Annex 3for detailed cost breakdown)
A. Improving the Legal and Regulatory Framework                Policy          14.7      28%      11.0       32%
Assistance in the form of advisory services, training, and equipment will
be provided for:                                               Institution
. preparing IPR-related laws and regulations;                  Building
* carrying out policy studies on strengthening the examination,
registration, administration, and protection of IPR; electronic
commerce; software competitiveness; and data security and
encryption;
. strengthening the skills of GOI staff through the development of IPR
curricula and training;
. strengthening the strategic policy capabilities for IPR coordination of
SEKNEG;
* strengthening the institutional capacity of DGCPT to register and
manage IPR and to design an institutional development action plan;
. strengthening the N2 I SC Secretariat to manage and implement the
NUSANTARA-21 program; and
. strengthening the institutional capabilities of BAPPENAS by
improving public sector management of IT and carrying out a pilot
project (SIMRENAS) aimed at standardization, integration, and
sharing of common planning data among public sector agencies, and
decentralization of development planning.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 4
Country: Indonesia                               Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
B. Expanding the Science and Technology (S&T) Network           Institution    18.1      34%         12.0     34%
This component will enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of  Building
researchers by providing the S&T community more cost effective access
to R&D through an expansion of IPTEKnet, which currently provides  Physical
connectivity and access to on-line technology databases to some 16,000
scientists and technologists.
The component will refine IPTEKnet's business development plan and
develop options for a phased full commercialization of the network
through increasing private sector participation; expand the number of
regional nodes and networks to provide on-line access to S&T
information; develop institutional capacity through a twinning
arrangement with qualified international network provider; design and
implement databases for the S&T user community; and
provide training and awareness workshops.
C. Expansion of Communications and Information Networks:         Policy        2.3        4%         1.6       5%
Post and Tourism
The first sub-component will strengthen the legal and regulatory  Institution
framework to promote private sector participation in postal services to  Building
facilitate new entrants to the sector.
The second sub-component aims to extend tourism information services to  Physical
the regions by developing the business model and pilot projects for an
electronic tourism information system (ETIS). The pilot is intended to test
the concept of "telecenters" operated by the private sector to provide one-
stop access to all telecommunication and information-related services.
D. Technical Assistance and Training Program (TATP)
The program aims to facilitate the adoption of good IT practices through a  Institution  15.4  29%   9.0       26%
cost sharing scheme that will improve private sector access (especially  Building
that of SME industries) to international expertise, new technologies, and
electronic commerce options.
The program is demand-responsive and promotes private sector delivery
of IT services. SMEs are given support in the form of a cost sharing grant
over a fixed time period to obtain IT capabilities and business services
from specialist suppliers. The target SMEs are entrepreneurs or traders,
and cooperatives. TATP provides assistance for consultancy support,
training, and studies. A management contractor will be hired to operate
the program.
E. Project Management Assistance                                Project        2.7        5%         0.9       3%
Capabilities of the project management and implementation units (CPMIU  Manage-
and PMIUs) will be strengthened through the provision of advisory  ment
services, office equipment, and computers.
TOTAL                                                                       53.2         100%       34.5      100%



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 5
Country: Indonesia                           Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
* Legal reform and improved intellectual property protection.
* Education and training to improve implementation and awareness of intellectual property protection, and
to ensure that the IPR regime conforms to TRIPS and the Berne Convention.
* Improved public procurement of IT.
* Strengthened capacity to develop, implement, and monitor the impact of the National Development Plan
with greater participation from the regions.
* Commercialization of the provision of Internet service by the public sector and promotion of private
entry and efficiency (through standards and competition).
* Strengthened legal and regulatory framework to promote private sector participation in postal services.
*  Jointly operated public-private pilot projects in tourist information delivery to provide one-stop access to
travel information systems and electronic commerce that will later be taken up by the private sector for
full development and deployment.
3. Benefits and Target Population
Enhanced commercial competitiveness for entrants in IT, postal, and tourism sectors
* The legal and policy component will improve the implementation and awareness of intellectual property
regulations, and encourage new entrants to the IT industry. Having invested heavily in state-of-the-art
computer hardware in the late- I 980s and early- 1990s, the Indonesian computer market is now beginning
to focus on software development to provide returns on this investment. Although some foreign firms
have established joint ventures, intellectual property protection remains a serious concern for both
national and multinational investors.
* The postal activity will introduce competition in selected markets through private sector participation.
* Greater use of IT in tourism will encourage growth in the sector and in related products and services. It
will boost employment locally and increase small business revenue.
* Through technical assistance and training, SMEs will be able to develop appropriate IT practices through
better access to international expertise, new technologies, and electronic commerce options.
Improved efficiency and productivity for the S&T community
* Sharing of scarce resources (i.e., equipment) among the S&T community will obviate the need for
duplicative investments. This is important because the instruments and facilities needed to conduct
research are becoming increasingly expensive and funding for scientists' projects is becoming more
scarce. Reductions can also be expected in the cost of reproducing and distributing information.
* The S&T component will enhance efficiency and effectiveness by providing researchers more cost
effective access to the R&D frontier, and through easier sharing and communication qualitatively change
the nature of research undertaken (more easily identify the boundaries of the global R&D frontier, avoid
duplicating R&D efforts, and provide broader interaction and scope for participation in multi-site, global,
and interdisciplinary research).
Increased equity and regional development for rural communities through reduced isolation
* IT and better communication infrastructure will bring the outlying regions into closer contact with
domestic and international markets.
Greater access to technology information and best practices for the public sector
* By implementing the IT Framework, GOI (through BAPPENAS) will widely spread the knowledge of
best practices in the management of public sector IT from around the world, among government agencies
and regions.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The aim is to successfully implement the project at a reasonable cost, ensuring efficient deployment of
resources. The implementing agencies (except for SEKNEG and DGCPT) have previous experience with



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 6
Country: Indonesia                           Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
WB-supported projects and good track records. Overall project implementation is expected to take five years
(FY98 to FY02), although the duration of some sub-components may be shortened. (See supplemental
Project Implementation and Procurement Plan in the project file for details.)
4.1 Project Oversight and Implementation
The MTPT will be the executing agency responsible for overall technical supervision and management of the
project. Within the Planning Bureau Office of MTPT, the CPMIU will have overall responsibility for
overseeing progress, coordinating project activities, and ensuring that implementing agencies comply with
reporting, accounting, and financial auditing requirements under the project. PMIUs will be established and
maintained until the completion of the project in BPPT, BAPPENAS, SEKNEG, and DGCPT. In addition to
the CPMIU and PMIUs, project committees will be established for BPPT, MOIT, BAPPENAS, SEKNEG,
and DGCPT. The following will function as implementing agencies for specific project components:
IPR and legal and regulatory framework    MTPT and SEKNEG
IPR institutional strengthening       SEKNEG
IPR support infrastructure            DGCPT
IT Framework and SIMRENAS             BAPPENAS
S&T component                         BPPT
Postal service activities             Directorate General Post, MTPT
Tourism information system            Directorate General Tourism, MTPT
TATP                                  MOIT
Project management                    CPMIU, PMIUs
The N2 I SC is chaired by the Secretary General of MTPT and is comprised of representatives of the
implementing agencies, other public entities, and private sector firms in telecommunications and IT. The
responsibilities of the N21 SC are:
a  designing, planning, and supervising implementation of studies and workshops;
*  disseminating to the public and other stakeholders the results and findings of these studies, workshops,
and related debates;
a  making policy recommendations and proposals to GOI for strengthening the legal and regulatory
framework; and
*  project oversight of the legal and regulatory components (in close coordination with SEKNEG).
The N2 1 SC will be supported by a Secretariat (N2 1 SC Secretariat) and chaired by a project director. It will
be staffed by technical personnel from the Planning Bureau of MTPT. An interagency team (IPR Group)
established under Presidential Decree (No. 34/86, July 30, 1986), with representatives of SEKNEG,
BAPPENAS, MTPT, MOJ, and MOIT will coordinate with the Secretariat the preparation of laws,
regulations, and policy studies.
Until the completion of the project, steering, supervisory, and technical committees will be maintained within
BPPT (IPTEKnet Steering Committee); MOIT (Supervisory and Technical Committees); BAPPENAS (IT
Framework and SIMRENAS Steering Committees); SEKNEG (Steering Committee); and DGCPT (Steering
Committee).
The IPTEKnet Steering Committee will ensure that infrastructure and capacity requirements of the network
are anticipated and met, and the network maintains service quality levels comparable to those of other
nations. This committee is comprised of representatives from other key stakeholder groups in the public and
private sectors, including the National Agency for Higher Education and the telecoms (PT. IndoSat and PT.
Telkom). SEKNEG will be responsible for the implementation of IPR policy activities. DGCPT will be
responsible for strengthening infrastructure for IPR. As a condition of disbursement, no withdrawals will be
made for equipmentfor DGCPT unless a satisfactory action plan for IPR registration and common data
sharing is submitted to the WB.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 7
Country: Indonesia                          Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
BAPPENAS will be responsible for implementation of new guidelines for the IT Framework in the public
sector and the implementation of SIMRENAS. MOIT will implement the TATP component through its
Agency for Development for Small Industries. As a condition of disbursement, no withdrawals will be made
for TATP-related activities unless a TATP management contract has been signed and submitted to the WB.
The TATP management contractor will supply a total of eight professional/technical and eight
administrative/secretarial staff to work in Indonesia for the duration of the TATP.
4.2 Procurement Arrangements (See Annex 6)
Procurement will be the responsibility of each of the implementing agencies, which will organize bid
evaluations and consultant selection committees for all procurement activities. All procurement of goods will
be in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January
1995 and revised January and August 1996. Consultant services shall be selected in accordance with the
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997. The
WB standard bidding documents and standard request for proposals and form of contract shall be adopted for
all procurement of goods under ICB and selection of consultants without any modifications or amendments.
The total goods to be procured under ICB amount to US$7.7 million. Total consultant contracts amount to
US$37.5 million. In addition, about US$1.2 million will be processed on the basis of national shopping
procedures. The remaining project costs of US$6.8 million represent incremental operating costs for
IPTEKnet. Approximately US$8.5 million (16%) of the project costs represent private sector financing.
4.3 Accounting, Financial Reporting, andAuditing Arrangements
Each fiscal year a financial audit of the project account, Special Account, and SOEs, will be carried out by an
independent auditor acceptable to the WB and GOI, and all reports from such audits will be submitted to the
WB for review. The audit reports will be furnished to the WB shortly after completion, but not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Other information concerning the audit shall be furnished to the WB
from time to time as reasonably requested.
4.4 Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
Supervision andAnnual Reviews The WB's supervision of the project will focus on the agreed performance
indicators shown in Annex 1. The project will be closely monitored during the start-up phase. Two
supervisory missions are scheduled during the first year following a project launch workshop. The purpose of
the missions will be to review Inception Reports (the primary deliverables of the TA assignments). This will
ensure that the technical assistance is consistent with WB standards, and baseline data are collected by which
progress can be monitored annually. An annual review will be conducted to evaluate progress achieved by
the Borrower in carrying out the project, including an evaluation of: the incremental operating costs of
expanding IPTEKnet; DGCPT's IPR-related activities; and, the need to adjust the project scope to reflect IT
developments.
Technical Audit The GOI (through MTPT) will prepare and furnish to the WB (by April 30, 2000) the TOR
for a technical audit and carry out (by October 31, 2000) a technical audit in a manner acceptable to the WB,
including an assessment of project quality and the achievement of project objectives (see Annex 1) in
accordance with the terms of reference for consultant services financed by the project. The audit and
recommendations will be submitted to the WB for comments prior to the project mid-term review.
Mid-term Review A mid-term review will be conducted in the third year of project implementation (by
November 30, 2000). The Borrower will submit a complete mid-term progress report to the WB at least four
months prior to the review, explaining activities and progress on each component. As considerable progress
is expected to have been achieved by this time in both the physical infrastructure and quality of service, the
mid-term supervision mission will consider the findings of the technical audit mentioned above. As a result
of the recommendations made at the mid-term review, changes in approach, staffing, and technical assistance
may be undertaken and components may be revised if measurable progress has not been achieved according
to the performance indicators.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 8
Country: Indonesia                           Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
D: Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
After discussions with GOI on how to make the project manageable and operationally viable, the following
alternatives were considered and rejected:
* Distance learning and telemedicine These applications were rejected on the grounds that major
investments and institutions were not yet ready. A feasibility study to prepare a future project in this area
has been financed under the Japan PHRD Fund and is being closely coordinated with the current project.
* Modernizing import customs automation systems and processors The WB identification mission
discussed with the Director General of Customs and Excise, and JICA the feasibility study to modernize
the import customs automation system. Although the GOI initially anticipated WB financing for this
component it ultimately opted to obtain funding from JICA. The WB and JICA have agreed to exchange
project information with the possibility of financing of a subsequent project, provided that the institutional
and organizational changes are made in the customs authority.
* Alternatives to IT demonstration pilot Alternative pilot projects were considered for demonstrating the
benefits of implementation of the public sector IT Framework. These included sharing data between
government departments and automation procurement. These were rejected in favor of the proposed pilot
project (the national development planning information system - SIMRENAS) because: (a) no projects for
general data sharing or procurement automation have been identified or are in the pipeline (i.e., the "Blue
Book"); (b) government procurement needs more policy development and attention to basic procedures
before automation can be considered; and (c) the national development planning system is in the Blue
Book and does demonstrate common data standards and data sharing in a particular information sector.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the WB and/or Other Development Agencies
Telecommunica-  Third Telecom, Project (on going)        S                 HSl
|tionsllll
|____________ |Fourth Telecom. Project (on going)        HS                 HS
Telecom. Sector Modernization           HS                 HS
Project (on going)             l                 l     _l
Industrial      Industrial Technology Development         s                 s
Technology        Project (on going)             l _l_l
Infrastructure    Second Technical Assistance            U                  S
Project I (on going)           l _l_l
Education       Quality of Undergraduate
Education (recently effective)  l_l_l
Brazil: Science & Technology
Knowledge         Reform Project (planned)
|____________ |Knowledge Mgm't (planned)
Other developing agencies
CIDA            IT in Nat'l Development; Canada-
Vietnam Project (ongoing).
|_____________ |IT  TA  Project (planned)         l   _l_l
Japanese Grant   Distance Learning and New
Fund             Technologies (recently effective)   l             l      _l
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 9
Country: Indonesia                          Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
Commitment and credibility of the government and the confidence an agency vests in the WB are crucial to a
meaningful dialogue with recipients on sensitive but key policy and regulatory issues. GOI has proven its
commitment through initiatives taken to prepare this project (discussed in section D4 below). Full
information concerning project initiatives is available to the private sector through participation in the
N21SC.
Consensus building between relevant agencies is important. Action plans were developed following
consensus-building workshops, sponsored by MTPT (April 1996) and by BAPPENAS (Oct. 1996). The
private sector also participated in the development of the action plans and the preparation of specific project
components. BAPPENAS surveyed information systems in the public sector and identified issues. Attention
has been paid to the N2 1 SC and its Secretariat and the resources available to it to coordinate policy
development.
Project management implementation units (CPMIU and PMIUs) with adequate authority and competent staff
should be established prior to Board presentation. Attention has been given to specific implementation
arrangements. All of the implementing agencies (except SEKNEG and DGCPT) have had prior experience
with WB-supported projects. Project design and implementation provide for effective monitoring and
evaluation of the institutional strengthening programs for particular agencies. Also, implementation includes
a technical audit and plans for mid-course assessments and corrections to project design if required.
Public-private partnership is essential for growth of the Internet. In several countries (e.g., US, Australia,
Germany, Brazil, Chile, Malaysia, and South Africa) public Internet investment has been highly leveraged
with substantial private investment to diffuse the Internet and increase connectivity. The same will apply in
Indonesia; this project will help jump-start the process by promoting Internet connectivity at the level of the
S&T community.
Actual implementation experience regarding information infrastructure development is quite limited and does
not permit conclusions as to the relevance and limits of various models in developing countries. The
experience of other peer group countries, particularly Singapore and Malaysia does permit, however, to draw
some useful lessons as to the process itself:
* the WB should not underestimate the difficulties and time required to develop a legal and regulatory
environment that promotes a more favorable IT investment environment for firms;
* the establishment of a reasonably independent and strong national coordinating body requires powerful
and lasting constituencies from both public and private sectors; and
* planning and implementation of management information systems and other networked computer systems
inevitably encounter institutional challenges that must be addressed in the course of implementation.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
The project was formulated after detailed discussions with GOI and the private sector. The project design
draws on the experience of WB Group telecom operations in Indonesia and national conferences, reports, and
action plans. In addition, GOI's plan to establish NUSANTARA-21 as an information highway connecting 27
provincial capitals, demonstrates its long-term commitment to potential applications of IT (in health,
education, and social services). The project design also reflects GOI's Sixth Five Year Development Plan
(REPELITA VI) which outlines policy guidelines for the management and use of information. The
Borrower's commitment is further demonstrated by the passage in 1997 of laws which will provide the
framework for the protection of IPR in accordance with the TRIPS Agreement and the Berne Convention.
The Borrower and the Indonesian private sector have demonstrated substantial commitment to the project as
indicated by their close collaboration in its development and the levels of counterpart funds (19% and 16%,
respectively). The proposed private sector contributions for improving the legal framework and for
development of the tourism information system will be indicated in a memorandum of understanding with
GOI. The finance plan for IPTEKnet has also been prepared with private sector involvement.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 10
Country: Indonesia                             Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
5. Value Added of WB Support in this Project
The GOI benefits from the lessons of: previous WB projects (including five successful telecommunications
projects in Indonesia, the Export Development Project in India, and the TA to Enhance Competitiveness
Project in Mauritius); sector work; and the knowledge of intemational best practices. GOI opted to finance
critical telecommunications sector work and regulatory issues through the WB because of its confidence in
available expert advice. The April 1996 conference on National Competitiveness in the Information Economy
and follow-up Action Plan involved experts who discussed best practice culled from the experiences of other
countries.
As an honest broker the WB has created a forum for leading IT firms to dialogue with GOI on Indonesia's IT
strategy, policies, and institutional framework for developing the IT industry. The N2 I SC has stated publicly
that WB involvement is seen as catalytic in the development of a legal framework for the IT industry and in
implementing the framework for public sector information system development.
The project will provide the framework for private entry into new areas and the basis for expanded business
opportunities in postal services, Internet connectivity, software development, tourist information services, and
electronic commerce.
E: Project Analyses
1. Economic
[ I Cost-Benefit Analysis
[X] Other (Qualitative)
GOI seeks to expand the information infrastructure in order to distribute the benefits of Indonesia's economic
growth throughout the country. This project will assist in that expansion by addressing a number of
deficiencies, including policy reform, growth of Internet connectivity, postal expansion, and increases in
technical capacity and human capital. The principal approach is to create the appropriate conditions for
infrastructure growth, and then to "prime the pump" with sufficient demand to induce strong, self sustaining
growth in the future. For this strategy to be viable, several economic issues must be considered:
* Is this an economically valuable activity?
• Is it being done in a cost effective manner?
* Why is there a need for public sector investment in this activity?
Economic Value of the Project
A functioning information infrastructure is essential for a country to participate effectively in the emerging
information economy. Communications technologies have impacts on both macroeconomic growth and
microeconomic areas of education, health care, and income distribution (see for example, Saunders, Warford
and Wellenius, Telecommunications and Economic Development, World Bank, 1994). Because Indonesia's
infrastructure is less developed than its neighbors, it will be difficult to be competitive without increased
investment.
Cost Effectiveness
Information infrastructure is so highly valued in Indonesia that project financial projections indicate that the
two revenue producing components of the project (the S&T Network and the tourism component) will have
strong positive nominal rates of return on the order of 27% (see financial analysis below). The project,
therefore, adopts a strategy that is consistent with private sector participation: to invest public funds in ways
that will increase private sector participation in Indonesia's information infrastructure.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 11
Country: Indonesia                              Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Specific aspects of the strategy include investing about 28% of the project funds in the improvement of the
legal and regulatory framework, identified as a major impediment to the growth of Indonesia's
communications network. Another 29% of the project funds will be invested in improvement of training and
human capital skills in the sector. This follows current trends in human capital projects: demand driven,
requiring cost sharing by participants, and tightly defined with no support for physical capital acquisition.
The other project components comprise activities with higher risk, but with the potential for very high returns.
Introducing competition in selected postal services markets will be coupled with a demonstration project for
improving tourism communications (together about 4% of the project). If successful, these efforts could have
significant impacts on economic growth in the areas away from Jakarta. The remainder (about 34%) of the
project will go to expansion of the S&T network in Indonesia. While it is not unusual to provide public
support for S&T activities (see for example, the recent WB S&T Reform Project in Brazil), this project
adopts a very innovative method of enlisting private sector participation. Rather than providing the
infrastructure directly, the public sector proposes to pay for connect time on a declining basis for the next five
years. It is anticipated that this demand push provided by the public sector will invoke a supply response that
will allow sustainable activities by the end of the project.
The Needfor Public Sector Involvement
A major question for any information infrastructure project is the proper role for the public sector in an area
where there is significant private sector interest. This project identifies a number of appropriate areas for
public spending, including:
* Policy and regulatory reform. An important condition for private sector participation is the ability to
compete fairly for communications services. This project will also improve the climate for the private
sector by strengthening IPR laws and the legal and regulatory framework for postal services.
* Subsidization of services with positive externalities. The development of common information,
particularly in the S&T field, has strong positive externalities for development and economic growth.
This project will subsidize the communications technology required for the production and distribution of
this information.
* Equity in economic development. The expansion of the information infrastructure to areas of lesser
economic activity in Indonesia will have important effects on the distribution of income in the country.
Ultimately, growth will be able to sustain this infrastructure in areas currently unable to do so.
2. Financial (see Annex 5)
The WB will finance 65% of the overall project costs, while GOI and the private sector will finance 19% and
16%, respectively. Internal rate-of-return calculations (nominal) and net present values are indicated below
for specific components.
Component                                 IRR            NPV
IPTEKnet expansion                        27%            $24.5 million
Tourism information system                27%            $ 4.0 million
The assumptions on project costs, contingencies, depreciation, and revenues on which these calculations are
based are:
* Project component costs are estimated at current prices (1997). It is expected that prices of computers and
software will fall due to rapid technological innovation during the project period; however, this has not
been built into the cost estimates due to difficulties in estimation. Costs of training and technical
assistance, travel and per diem estimates are consistent with GOI current information.
* Price and physical contingencies are estimated to be 9.7% based on a weighted average at 5.5% for foreign
costs and 11% for local costs. Due to the large share of technical assistance and training components (55%
of total project costs) physical contingencies are lower than for a project with a large share of procured
goods.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 12
Country: Indonesia                            Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
* Depreciation for installed equipment is calculated by constant prices for three years; the inflation rate is
assumed to be 8%.
Revenues are estimated analyzing potential demand based on available demand studies. Revenues estimated
for the end of the project period are assumed for the rest of the project life which is expected to be 20 years.
Fiscal Impact
Major investments under the project to establish information infrastructure are expected to be self-sustaining
beyond the project implementation period due to the proposed increase in private sector participation. Other
funding from the fiscal budget will be allocated only for a temporary period of five years, directed towards
adjustments in the legal and regulatory framework. Therefore, long-term negative fiscal impacts are not
foreseen in terms of either capital or recurrent expenditures. While initially there will be a temporary negative
fiscal impact for all components, the project is expected to have a positive fiscal income which over the
longer term will be generated through increased private sector activity resulting from the project.
* According to the conservative assumptions of the business study on IPTEKnet, the S&T component is
expected to be self-sufficient by project completion. No additional expenditure beyond the initial
investment, or plowing back of revenues to the government is foreseen.
* ETIS will not generate any negative fiscal impact beyond the initial operational expenses of setting up the
information system.
* TATP will not have any recurrent expenditure beyond the project period, as the matching grant is a
temporary support to private and public agents in the industry.
3. Technical
The automation technologies supported by the project have been demonstrated worldwide as technically
sound. Technical viability is mostly a concern for the S&T network component, as the development of
Internet networks has become an area of increasing specialization. Other countries further along in
developing Internet services have acquired this expertise through experience. For this reason, a TOR has been
developed for TA being provided via a "twinning" arrangement with an international Internet service
provider. Twinning will transfer know-how through the following activities: assistance for all aspects of
network design and implementation; database development; network standards and response to user
requirements; network management; and transition to operation as a self-sufficient entity.
To minimize technical risks associated with IPTEKnet implementation, the following requirements have been
built into the component design. The consultant hired will bring expertise in state-of the-art Internet
networking design and implementation to ensure that:
* investments are not outdated or proprietary;
* excess capacity is not created prior to planned upgrades;
* investments that can be undertaken by private sector are not duplicated;
* adequate transmission capacity is available to undertake required upgrades; and
* service provision is appropriately priced.
4. Institutional
Given the number of agencies and activities involved, the ability of MTPT as the executing agency to
coordinate and oversee progress was carefully considered in the project design. Based on MTPT's successful
implementation of five telecommunications projects with the WB it was concluded that MTPT has sufficient
capacity to coordinate the project. The agencies selected to implement the various project components have
also demonstrated ability to manage projects: BPPT has experience under the Science and Technology for
Industrial Development program, and is presently implementing the WB-financed Industrial Technology
Development Project; BAPPENAS has carried out similar projects including a coordinating role in GOI
activities; MTPT is familiar with WB procedures and has assigned a competent manager familiar with other
donor programs; and MOIT has also satisfactorily implemented WB projects. To enhance existing capacity of



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 13
Country: Indonesia                           Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
the implementing agencies, all project components include TA to support project management. Furthermore,
in view of the lack of experience and familiarity with WB procedures, SEKNEG and DGCPT will be
supported by the CPMIU and will be able to consult frequently with WB staff at the Indonesian Resident
Mission.
5. Social
Project preparation included extensive consultation with public and private stakeholders and has generated
ample support from them.
No land acquisition is foreseen in any of the project components.
Recently some communities in the developed and developing world have voiced their concern about the
dominance of the English language on the Internet and World Wide Web. Management of the S&T Network
may need to raise the matter of language for debate among stakeholders. The IPTEKnet member organization
and the N2 1 SC Secretariat provide an appropriate forum for this debate.
6. Environnmental Assessment
Environmental Category []A  [     B  [X] C
The project will not finance any civil works and is not expected to have adverse environmental impacts.
7. Participatory Approach
The project has been developed in a participatory manner consulting the key stakeholders at every stage. A
total of three participatory workshops have been held in April 1996 (WB & MTPT), October 1996
(BAPPENAS), and February 1997 (Tourism) at the request and in consultation with the beneficiaries, many
of whom are from the private sector. The stakeholders will continue to participate during the implementation
phase. Major issues addressed at these workshops included: the little foreign investment in IT (because of,
inter alia, inadequate legal protection); and whether targeted programs to stimulate a competitive local supply
in selective informatics markets niches would generate benefits for the economy as a whole and allow
Indonesia to catch up with its peer group economies.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Project sustainability will be facilitated by the Borrower's commitment and enthusiasm, the track record of
the implementing agencies for delivering results, stakeholder involvement, and increased private sector
participation.
The sustainability of the S&T Network component will be ensured by:
*  increasing IPTEKnet revenues, based on membership fees, content development, and cost sharing with
universities;
*  a two-tiered governance structure (national level steering committee and membership organization);
*  a public-private partnership through a cost-sharing scheme and TA to develop options for a phased full
commercialization of the network through increasing private sector participation;
*  the increased capacity of IPTEKnet to manage the network; and
*  a program to train trainers in promoting effective use of the network resulting in increased number of
users/subscribers.
The cost-sharing scheme will ensure that funds provided by the GOI to connect users to the S&T Network are
matched by the private sector, as well as by host institutions to the regional nodes who compete on capacity
and quality. Conservative estimates in the business study indicate that IPTEKnet will be self-financed by
project completion. The implementation agency has established the necessary conditions to achieve this, and
has committed to performance measures which will ensure financial self-sufficiency is attained during this
period. Sustainability of the postal reform activities will be achieved by rebalancing tariffs (result of the legal
and regulatory TA) which will support increased operational cost of the network expansion.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 14
Country: Indonesia                           Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
The tourism sub-component will be sustainable througlh a phased approach which will first develop the
business case, theni develop a model for a pilot design for the information system, and finally implement the
pilot oni a limited scale to hieighten awareness and demonstrate the benefits of expanded information services
in WARTELs. The private sector will be involved in the implementation of the pilot and be responsible for
extending its use to other locations.
2. Critical Risks
Sector-Related CAS Goal
Lak f omimetofGO  o  TOI                  Moderate   Monitor implementation of these
Agreement, TRIPs Agreement, and Bernecomtesasprofolydiogewh
Covnto                                               GOI on deregulation.
Convention
Project Outputs
Moderate   Leadership role of MTPT to coordinate
Implementation delays due to number of                  imlmnainaece.hog   2
agnce                                                 Implementation agencies through N2 1
agencies                                                 Secretariat, adequately supported under
project.
Delays in drafting and proposing IPR legislation    Moderate   Ensuring collaboration with MTPT, MOIT,
due to complex law-making process                        SEKNEG, and BAPPENAS through N2I SC.
Miscalculation of supply (bandwidth and        Low      Prior WB telecom lending ensures supply of
content) and demand for S&T Network services            telecommunications bandwidth. TA to
regional nodes and negotiations with PT.
Telcom will ensure acceptable supply and
pricing thresholds. Market assessment
indicates strong potential demand.
Conservative estimates are being used in
IPTEKnet business plan.
Development and implementation of DGCPT        High      CPMIU to closely monitor procurement-
activities due to weak implementation capacity          related activities. Annual reviews would
and lack of familiarity with WB procedures              provide basis for fine-tuning of component.
SEKNEG advisor will oversee institutional
action plan of DGCPT.
Insufficient demand for TA and training      Moderate   Early active promotion, taking experience of
contracts under TATP                                    DAPATI (under the Industrial Technology
Development Project) into account.
Overall Risk Rating                          Moderate
Risk Ratings: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
* The S&T Network will enable a dramatic expansion in the capacity of Indonesians to obtain information from
around the world and transmit it across the country. GOI may seek to control content or usage of information
by the private sector.
* There is ongoing concern that GOI's role in networking among the private Intemet service providers (ISPs)
represents an unnecessary market intervention. Thus, the project has been designed to involve the small
fledgling private ISPs in a meaningful way as well as to promote awareness among potential users who will
access the Internet through ISPs. Over time this will bridge market failures normally associated with new
technologies and foster overall market expansion, which is served by private ISPs.
* Software piracy in Indonesia is widespread and implementation of IPR regulations may encounter resistance.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 15
Country: Indonesia                           Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
G: Main Loan Conditions
During negotiationis GOI gave assurances regarding the following:
Project Implementation
*  CPMIU, PMIUs, and project committees to be maintained until completion of the project with staffing
functions and resources acceptable to the WB.
*  In accordance with programs and timetables acceptable to the WB, carry out training programs and policy
studies and furnish recommendations to the WB within four months of the studies' completion and promptly
prepare and carry out an action plan taking into account the WB comments.
*  By March 31, 1998 the N2 1 SC Secretariat will be established and staffed in a manner acceptable to the WB.
*  By December 31, 1999, carry out the ETIS pilot projects approved by the WB in accordance with technical,
financial, and economic criteria acceptable to the WB.
*  By December 31, 2001, carry out the SIMRENAS pilot project approved by the WB in accordance with
technical, financial, and economic criteria acceptable to the WB.
Accounts and Technical Audit
* By April 30, 2000 prepare and furnish to the WB for comments, the TOR for carrying out the technical
audit of project implementation, and by October 31, 2000 carry out technical audit with TOR acceptable to
the WB and furnish a copy to the WB promptly thereafter.
*  Furnish annual audit reports to the WB on project accounts, the Special Account, and SOEs.
Monitoring and Reporting
*  By September 30 of each year, prepare through MTPT a report according to TOR acceptable to the WB,
which includes results of the monitoring and evaluation activities over the preceding year, and a
description of project activities for the subsequent fiscal year setting out the measures recommended to
carry out the project efficiently.
*  By November 30 of each year, carry out annual project implementation review evaluating the progress
achieved in the project in accordance with performance indicators.
*  By November 30, 2000, carry-out a comprehensive mid-term review of project implementation and take
measures to ensure efficient implementation and completion of the project based on the conclusions and
recommendation of the mid-term review.
*  Monitor and ensure that the TATP beneficiaries carry out the sub-projects in accordance with the policies
and procedures approved by the WB and described in the TATP Implementation Manual.
Conditions of Disbursement
*  No withdrawals will be made for implementation of the TATP unless an acceptable TATP management
contract has been signed and submitted to the WB.
*  No withdrawals will be made for the acquisition of equipment for DGCPT unless a satisfactory action plan
for IPR registration and the establishment of common data sharing is submitted to the WB.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ ]  The engineering design documents are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
[X]  Not applicable.
[X]  The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[X]  The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 16
Countrv: Indonesia                                    Project Title: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
I: Compliance with WB Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable WB policies.
Task Team Leader:                             Robert Schware
Sector Manager:                                   n       C#ung
Country Director:                             Dennis DeTray



Annex 1
Indonesia: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Project Design Summary
SECTOR-RELATED                                                                                                          CAS Goal to
CAS GOAL                                                                                                            Bank Mission
Enhance private sector    Increase in foreign direct investment in IT goods and services       N21 SC report            Assumes: Commitment to WTO
involvement in IT                                                                                                       IT Agreement, TRIPS
infrastructure            Increase in domestic IT industry growth and IT investment per capita                          Agreement, and Berne
Convention
PROJECT                                                                                                                 Development Objectives to
DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                             CAS Goal
OBJECTIVES
Formulation of draft legislations protecting software, data, and integrated   Annual project  Assumes: Effective leadership of
Remove barriers to entry    circuits (to be completed by 1999)                                 implementation report    MTPT to coordinate implementa-
in IT services                                            .                                    and N2iSC reports       tion agencies
Increased private sector participation in new value-added information,
post, and tourism services                                           Supervision missions
Mid-term review



Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
PROJECT OUTPUTS   [SeePAD Annex 2 for detailed description]                                                       Outputs to Developmen
Legal and regulatory     N21I SC: The establishment of a permanent secretariat to formulate and                   Objectives
framework to promote IT  implement national strategy for IT development; N2 1 SC will conduct the  Annual project
applications available and  following number of studies, workshops, formulation of policies:  implementation report and
effectively implemented   Baseline    1998   1                                          N21SC reports
Mid-term    2000   4
Completion  2002   7                                          Supervision missions
Operational and event co-sponsorship: Financial cost-sharing and privateMi-emrvw
sector co-sponsorhip of N2 1 SC initiatives, to ensure sustainability after  d-emrvw
project completion
Baseline    1998   10%
Mid-term    2000   50%
Completion  2002   100%
MTPT: Draft proposal recommending the enactment of new legislation
and regulatory regime for the postal sector.
IT Framework and SIMRENAS: Number of offices (nodes) connected to
pilot systems project (SIMRENAS), which will demonstrate benefits of
IT framework, standardization, and sharing common planning data
Baseline    1998   140
Mid-term    2000   320
Completion  2001   387                                                                 Assumes: Multi-agency
Strengthen capacity of IPR management: Strengthen service capacity of                   fortelciptronpsic g comereaio
DGCPT and other agencies responsible for implementation of IPRfoelcrncomre
regulations and law faculties
Develop an institutional action plan                2000                               Assumes: Sufficient project
Design new procedures, systems and structures,      1998                               implementation capacity of
including automation support facilities                                              SEKNEG and DGCPT
SEKNEG and DGCPT: Complete draft laws and regulations and
implement the related activities aimed at strengthening IPR protection of
software, data, and integrated circuits
Draft integrated circuits (topography) law       1999
Draft regulation for IC (topography) law         1999
Draft regulation for trademark law               1999
Draft undisclosed information (trade secrets) law  1999



Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
Narrative                         Key Performance Indicators                             Monitoring and                   Critical
Summary                                                                                     Evaluation                Assumptions
PROJECT OUTPUTS            Draft regulation for trade secret law               1999                                   Outputs to Development
(cont'd)                   Design DGCPT automation action plan                 1999                                    Objectives (cont'd)
Other Regulations:
Draft regulation for copyright law                 1999
Draft industrial design law                        1999
Draft regulation for industrial design law         1999
Communications and                                    Baseline    Mid-term   Completion
connectivity to outlying                               (1998)      (2000)       (2002)
regions expanded and     IPTEKnet
intensified              Number of regional nodes on       5             25          35     Annual project
S&T networks                                                     implementation report and
Number of individual users     3,300          9,850      16,950    N21SC reports
Number of corporate users         32            128        224
MTPTIDG Tourism                                                    Supervision missions
Number of ETIS pilot sites      none             2           3     Mid-term review
Baseline    Mid-term   Completion
Institutional capacity                                 (1998)       (2000)      (2002)      Annual project
strengthened            N2 1 SC: % increase in IT training                                  implementation report and
and awareness building     base tbd    base + 10   base + 50    N21SC reports
IT Framework and SIMRENAS:                                          S          m
% of IT investments conforming                                   Supervision missions
to revised national criteria  n.a.        50           100       Mid-term review
IPTEKnet: quality of service   base tbd    base + 10   base+ 50



Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
PROJECT OUTPUTS                                       Baseline   Mid-term   Completion                              Outputs to Development
(cont' d)                                             (1998)      (2000)      (2002)                                Objectives (cont'd)
N21ISC: % cost sharing of N21 SC
operating expenses        10         20           50      Annual project
Private sector                                                                            implementation report and
participation in        ETIS: % sharing of total costs    n.a        50           50      N21 SC reports
providing information
infrastructure increased    IPTEKnet: % sharing of total costs    n.a.  5         15      Supervision missions     Assumnes: Accurate
estimation of supply and
TATP: % grant disbursed with average                              Mid-term review          demand for S&T network
50% private match          none       50           90                               services
Assnrmes: Sufficient demand
for TA and training contracts
PROJECT                [See PAD Annexes 3 and 6 for detailed breakdown]f                                            Project Components to
COMPONENTS                                                                                                          Project Outputs
Total (with
A. Improving the Legal                                                   Contingencies)
and Regulatory                                                           US$ ('000)
Framework          Input
Annual project
Al. N21SC Secretariat   Technical Assistance/Training                          5,806.2   implementation report and
CPMIU Costs                                             1,297.3    project audit and
7,10.~5    disbursement report
A2. IT Framework and    Equipment                                               1,221.0    Supervision missions
SIMRENAS           Technical Assistance/Training                            2,513.3
PMIU Costs                                               615.7     Mid-term review
A3. SEKNEG/DGCPT    Equipment                                                  3,183.7
Technical Assistance/Training                           1 974.6
5.1 58.3



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
B. Expanding Science
and Teclnoloto      Networ k Operating, Center & Reg. Nodes                 3,340.3      Annual project
(S&T) Network       Incremental Operating Costs                             6,699.2     implementation report
Subscription, Promotion & Exhiibition                    215.9      and project audit and
Office Supplies                                           53.8      disbursement report
Technical Assistance/Twinning                           7,801.7
PMIU Costs                                               266.0      Supervision missions
18.376.9
Mid-term review
C. Expansion of
Communications
and Information
Networks                                                                                 Annual project
implementation report
Cl. Postal Sector       Technical Assistance                                     1,004.4     and project audit and
Reform                                                                      1,004.4      disbursement report
C2. Tourism             Equipment                                                 181.0      Supervision missions
Technical Assistance                                    1.163.3
1,344.3     Mid-term review
D. Technical Assistance
and Training        Funds for Program Users                                 12,286.4     Annual project
Program for Small    Technical Assistance/Training                           3,016.8    implementation report
and Medium Sized    Preliminary Marketing, Awareness Campaign, Seminar        219.4      and project audit and
Enterprises         PMIU Costs                                                 329.1     disbursement report
15,851.7
Total:
Equipment                                                4,585.7
Technical Assistance/Training                           23,280.1
Network Operating Center & Reg. Nodes                   10,039.5
Office Stupplies                                           53.8
Subscription, Proniotioni & Exhibition                    215.9
Funds for Program User (TATP)                           12,286.4
Preliminary Marketing, Awareness Campaign, Seminar        219.4
CPMIU/PMIUs                                              2,508.2
Project Costs                                           53,189.0     _






Annex 2
Page I of 10
Annex 2
Indonesia: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Detailed Project Description
This detailed project description has been prepared on the basis ofjoint GOI and WB
consultations during two preparation missions and the project appraisal mission. The project
organization chart in Figure 2A indicates the relationship between each component and the implementing
agencies and how the components are combined to structure the project. Supplemental to this detailed
project description, a detailed Project Implementation and Procurement Plan has been prepared and is
available in the project file.
Component A: Improving the Legal and Regulatory Framework (US$ 14.7 million)
Development of Legal and Regulatory Environment
The purpose of this first sub-component is to establish a permanent policy making capability to
be incubated within the Ministry of Tourism, Post and Telecommunications (MTPT), which will develop
the legal and regulatory environment to support development of the information technology and related
sectors of the Indonesian economy.
Under this sub-component, the Borrower will establish a permanent secretariat to implement the
national strategy for information technology-based development, NUSANTARA 21. This office --
referred to as N2 1 SC -- will be an extension of the N21 Steering Committee established in April 1996.
This sub-component will involve:
Legal and technical advisory services provided to SEKNEG for: (a) the elaboration of certain
provisions in the copyrights law and the further development of new laws protecting computer software,
electronic data, integrated circuits (topography), industrial designs, and undisclosed information/trade
secrets; (b) a comparative study of regional IPR regulations to improve existing procedures and the
development of new regulations required to comply with international agreements; and (c) training
support for the implementation of IPR regulations.
Policy Analysis N21SC will analyze policy relevant to the strengthening of the regulatory
framework in order to develop cogent recommendations. Much of this analysis will be obtained by
procuring the services of internationally recognized consulting firms. Key policy studies and workshops
to be conducted under this component include: (a) a competitive strategy for the software and systems
integration business; (b) a program to strengthen the intellectual property rights regime; (c) competitive
issues in data security and encryption; and (d) deployment and facilitation of electronic commerce.
Communications N21SC will conduct workshops on critical issues and publicize findings of its
policy analyses. Workshops will be held for each of the major consultancies in order to raise awareness
and involve stakeholders, especially the private sector. The Secretariat will assume the communications
responsibility for NUSANTARA 21, working to keep the membership of the Secretariat fully informed



Figure 2A
Organization of the Information Infrastructure
Development Project (IIDP)
N21
fi IIDF 
MTPT
I
CPMIU
l8 and                 e      r                  Regional                          S    T   etwork         TA annl
RuatrITFramework                                     Snermaions                           Expansion
NAKNEG AND  TTPI                                               BPPTENAStTourism
OQ :
W(D (
PMIU        ~PIMPRO
th0
Management
Contractor  |



Annex 2
Page 3 of 10
and managing all media relations. N2 I SC will also develop marketing communications materials which
explain the origin and purpose of NUSANTARA 21 and help to promote Indonesia as a country suitable
for investment and enterprise development in all sectors related to information technology.
Regulatory Reforms N2 1 SC will stimulate discussions through the publication of white papers
and will formulate recommendations for contribution to the policy making process. Staff ofN21SC will
be skilled in policy making so that together with public and private stakeholders they will formulate
legislation and regulations where applicable, and with the cooperation of relevant ministries (e.g., the
Ministry of Justice).
Assistance in IPR curricula development in agencies responsible for implementation of IPR
regulations (Judiciary, Attorney General/Public Prosecutor, Police, Customs) training centers, and the
law faculties of tertiary institutions.
Strengthening the services capacity of the DGCPT involving: (a) the preparation of an action
plan to enable DGCPT to provide rapid access to accurate national IPR registers; and (b) the
development and implementation of procedures, systems, and structures to support effective IPR
administration, examination, and information dissemination processes (including automation support
facilities).
Managing the N21SC N21 SC will be comprised of Indonesian professional staff with multi-
disciplinary training necessary to develop and implement technology policy. The work of these
professionals will be managed by a project director and supported by a technical advisor on an as needed
bases. As a means of managing costs and ensuring sustainability of results, many of the activities of the
Secretariat will be co-sponsored by private industry. Others, such as the study tours and exchanges will
be self-financing due to the mutual benefit of these programs to the Indonesian participants and his or her
counterpart organization. As it grows and matures, the N2 1 SC secretariat will: (a) coordinate
discussions among industry players; (b) work with companies in the common issues of concern and
interest; (c) monitor international standards and policy developments; (d) organize the membership of
N2 1 SC around issues on common concern and interest to the IT industry; and (e) formulate
recommendations for contribution to the policy making process.
Aligning the DGCPT aims with the needs of the GOI and private sector by strengthening the
capacity of DGCPT staff to manage IPR. A coordinated skills development program will include: (a) on-
the-job training to improve administration, examination, registration, and documentation of copyrights,
patents, and trademarks; (b) conducting comparative study tours to relevant IPR offices that have
successfully implemented "customer-oriented" services (e.g., Canada and Denmark); and (c) undertaking
contemporary management development program for senior managers and supervisory staff.
Progress for this sub-component will be measured by: (a) the completion of studies and
assessments which are of national strategic importance; (b) the formulation of policy recommendations
and actual legislation; and (c) active participation by the private sector as measured in terms of
participation in and co-sponsorship of the policy making activities of the NUSANTARA 21 Secretariat.
Framework for IT Investment and an Information System for National Development Planning
Increasing national development and rapidly changing conditions in the world economy
necessitate adequate and reliable information as a basis for planning by both public and private sectors.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 10
This goal is mandated by REPELITA VI which established five policy guidelines for the management
and use of information: (a) improving the management of information systems which are capable of
increasing the efficiency and productivity of development, together with the creation of a culture of
information awareness; (b) improving the capabilities of information technology industries, aimed at
national self-sufficiency in the information area; (c) improving the use and dissemination of information
both inland and abroad, for creating added value; (d) improving (qualitatively and quantitatively) human
resources in the field of information technology; and (e) developing and managing institutional
information systems.
To support these policy guidelines, the outputs of this second sub-component will include: (a)
improvement of GOI's management of IT investments by implementing a comprehensive set of
guidelines, standards, and criteria for evaluating IT investment proposals and managing IT projects
(referred to as the "IT Framework"); and (b) implemention of a national development planning
information system pilot ("SIMRENAS") as a demonstration of the benefits of the IT Framework
approach.
Tlte IT Framework will be implemented by: (a) completing the IT Framework and securing
ministerial ratification; (b) communicating the IT Framework to government institutions; (c) determining
the current status of IT management and practices in government; (d) developing a National IT Master
Plan; (e) instituting improved criteria and guidelines for IT project evaluation; and (f) defining the role,
organization, and requirements for central coordinating agencies for national IT.
These activities will follow through on decisions made at the conference Ensuring National
Competitiveness in the Information Economy held in Jakarta in April, 1996. At that conference, it was
determined that there is a need to improve the planning and development of IT in the public sector, in
order to optimize IT investment by GOI. Following up on this action item, BAPPENAS, assisted by the
WB and CIDA, organized a workshop in October, 1996 to establish a Framework and Strategy for
National Information Systems Development (the IT Framework). A draft framework was drawn up and
is currently being refined by a core team drawn from BAPPENAS and other government departments. It
will be distributed for feedback before being finalized and circulated to government ministers for
ratification as an official regulatory document.
Once the IT Framework is ratified, it will be communicated widely to all government agencies
through seminars for managers and IT staff, and by other means such as Internet home pages. A study
will also be carried out to determine the status of IT investment in the GOI, to identify problem areas,
and prioritize actions for improvement. This will be followed by the development of a five-year
National IT Master Plan which will include revised criteria and guidelines for IT project evaluation.
Finally, working groups will be set up to define the role, organization, and requirements for central
coordinating agencies for IT, including coordinating roles for GOI information and systems, for training
of government IT staff, and for national IT as a whole.
Tlte SIMRENAS system will be implemented by: (a) developing a framework and strategic plan
system; (b) developing a system design and master plan for BAPPENAS management information
system; (c) upgrading the technology environment, providing links to all provincial and district planning
agencies; (d) developing priority application systems and databases; and (e) organizing and delivering
training and user support for the system.
The SIMRENAS system will address the information needs of the national development
planning process by improving the information management capabilities of BAPPENAS itself, as the



Annex 2
Page 5 of 10
main node of SIMRENAS. A common data dictionary for national planning information will be
developed, covering a large number of government institutions. This will enable the electronic transfer
and sharing of information between them, including the exchange of planning information between
central and regional agencies in the provinces and districts. The technology architecture will be
improved, providing software and hardware to all provincial and 46 district nodes which will allow them
to access the Internet and to use e-mail as well as transfer data. Planning applications and databases will
be developed and implemented, and users and IT staff will be trained on the system.
SIMRENAS has been selected as a pilot demonstration project for the IT Framework because it
will demonstrate: (a) the development of common data standards and the electronic transfer and sharing
of information between a large number of govemment institutions; (b) the raising of management
awareness of the importance and utility of information technology to their own objectives; and (c) the
dissemination of high quality planning information to both public and private sectors.
Progress will be measured by: (a) the proportion of GOI IT investment proposals that conform to
the IT Framework criteria; (b) the number of nodes linked to the SIMRENAS system; (c) changes in data
availability and usability; and (d) the rate and thoroughness with which project tasks are completed.
Component B: Expanding the Science and Technology (S&T) Network (US$ 18.1 million)
Indonesia lacks a cross-country Internet backbone connecting regions as well as campuses and
research centers, and is considerably below average in Internet connectivity. This is due in part to the
newness of the Internet service provider (ISP) industry, and in part to current pricing which prohibits
access to the Internet to many and discourages high volume use for most subscribers. Demand for
Internet services is unlikely to grow under such conditions. Increased Internet access for the country's
S&T community will lead to increased demand for Internet connectivity and services especially in low
density markets, resource sharing, and information exchange. Such demand for Internet connectivity
will be stimulated by connecting the S&T community.
The outputs of this component will expand an existing public wide-area network -- IPTEKnet or
the National Science and Technology Network -- from its current proof-of-concept stage to a more
advanced operational stage, in order to allow the Indonesian S&T community to communicate with
colleagues nationally and throughout the world. The end-result will strengthened public and private
institutions relying on science and technology inputs.
This project component will include the following elements: (a) network installation and
management; (b) developing value added services, essential if IPTEKnet is to develop a sufficient user
base and justify exacting fees for its services; (c) awareness and user development, critical to developing
demand for IPTEKnet and the on-line services it provides; and (d) organizational development necessary
to transform IPTEKnet into a modern information technology based service organization. Connectivity
management according to international standards will be required through a twinning relationship to see
that the network is expanded rapidly and efficiently to serve the demand in all key regions of the country.
This activity must also ensure high network performance levels at affordable costs, and will also lay the
groundwork for obtaining the participation of private operators in the network.
With respect to the private sector, this component aims to: (a) strengthen the technical labor
force serving industrial development by providing global access to technical information for a major
portion of Indonesian scientists and technologists; (b) encourage innovation in the S&T community by
providing the means to conduct collaborative research and facilitate technology information exchange



Annex2
Page 6 of 10
between the public and private sector; and (c) stimulate demand for Internet services at the regional level
and lower barriers to entry for providers of computer products and services, especially but not limited to
Internet services. An appropriate business plan with options for a phased full commercialization of the
network through increasing private sector privatization will be developed.
Progress and impact will be tracked by: (a) user subscriptions which are expected to reach 1.9
million or 62% of the science and technology user population; (b) nodes connected to the IPTEKnet
backbone which are expected to reach 35 by project year four; (c) personal computers (PCs) which are
expected to reach one in every 100 potential users in the S&T community; and (d) private sector
matching funds which are expected to increase to a 1:2 ratio. Over time this will lay the foundation for
self-sufficiency of the program and will enable participation by a broader population of users and ISPs.
Connectivity will be financed on a declining cost basis, split between the WB, GOI, and IPTEKnet (45%,
36%, and 19% respectively). By project completion, IPTEKnet will become self-financing from revenue
generated from membership fees, content development, and cost sharing with universities.
The design of this project integrates lessons learned from other Internet projects and public wide-
area network projects in countries such as Brazil, Canada, United States, and Vietnam. These other
projects have been characterized by strong involvement among diverse stakeholder organizations,
including private firms. The role of government has been to stimulate and facilitate cross-sectoral
efforts. Three operating principles of these programs are relevant: (a) participatory govemance; (b)
sharing of costs by GOI and the scientific community associated with connectivity and application
development; and (c) private sector involvement. Adherence to these principles has generally permitted
these Internet organizations to achieve self-sufficiency within a short time period.
Participatory governance has proven to be an important indicator of implementation success and
long-term sustainability for Internet projects in other nations. It is by convening and cooperating at
various organizational levels that they set priorities and procedures which account for the needs of
participating regional nodes. Collective governance establishes the precedence for communications and
resource sharing at other levels in the organization.
Cost sharing has been used with great success. According to this scheme, government funds are
applied selectively to complement the information technology investments of participating regional
nodes. In an environment in which most participating institutions will already be making some
technology investments, the funds of the national Internet program are used for connectivity to the
network. Technical assistance and training are also important elements of such a program.
Private sector involvement has traditionally been managed within a partnership model in which
a core group of members from research and educational institutions developed the content and programs
of the network consistent with the education and research missions of their institutions. Private sector
participation has historically been restricted within this model so as not to compromise this mission-
oriented focus. Private sector interest has, nevertheless, been strong because industry is motivated by the
externalities and spin-offs of long-term networked interactions among scientists, educators, and students.
Indeed, in addition to the Internet applications that have been developed at universities and research labs,
public sector Internet programs have proven critical in developing markets which later achieve sufficient
size to attract private ISPs. It is forecast that, in addition to the Internet subscribers that enroll through
the regional nodes, this project would generate approximately 1.9 million paying private enrollees by the
end of the five year effort. This would be sufficient to foster sufficient growth and new entrants in the
ISP industry.



Amami
Pa7ge 7of10
Cmponent C  Expans               mation Network. (USS 2.3 million)
PosatlActvitpk
Indonesia's postal volume is growing at a rate of 1Wo per annum (CAGR of letter mail and
parcels, 1994-97). Time sensitive mail is estimated to have grown at a rate of 35% per annum. PT. Pos
Indonesia, the national operator, is profitable at about 12% return on sales (1996). The entity contributes
significantly to GOI in the way of dividends and taxes on profits. Nevertheless, GOI faces two
significant problems in the postal sector: (a) Indonesia does not have universal postal service (about 55%
of the villages in the country do not have access to this basic, and in many instances, the only
communications medium); and (b) PT. Pos Indonesia has a wide monopoly on letter mail, thus entry
barriers for new operators and private sector development is very high. Indeed, the monopoly seems to
have provided PT. Pos Indonesia a disincentive to improve productivity levels (see Figure 2B for
comparative productivity analysis).
Figure 2B
Efficiency Indicator: Productivity Comparison
(Productivity measured by mail handled per employee per year)
300,000    i I 9 1
prWAtwn"rh
Ind.,    . ia  _js
250,000
200,000
iso.ooo                       2-3 lames Hmor
prodwth~ ixa Ih
100.000         .                      ----
50,000
0                                                     N
Leaders in          Productivity of        LEgrers in
productivity      weforned compats          pduct-
(the reformed)                               ivity
Expansion of the postal network to establish universal service is indeed a social development
objective of the GOI as stated in Repelita VI. The extended network, due to low usage of the network in
rural areas, is expected to be commercially non-viable over the next three to five years. Recognizing
this, and given the social objective of the government, the project is designed to provide assistance to the
MTPT to establish a truly universal service by year 2001.
Another area of importance to the government is the development of the postal sector as a whole.
The government would like to promote the development of the private sector while providing sufficient



Annex 2
Page 8 of 10
protection for some time for PT. Pos Indonesia to strengthen its competitive capability in order to
implement universality of service.
The objective of this component is to provide legal advisory services to review GOI's postal
legal and regulatory framework and prepare laws and regulations. It will establish a legal and regulatory
regime to: (a) progressively liberalize the postal market; (b) put in place a clear, unambiguous regulatory
mechanism for the reserved service areas of the postal market; and (c) lower entry barriers and promote
private sector development within the sector.
Electronic Tourist Information System (ETIS)
This sub-component is intended to establish basic conditions for growth in the tourism sector
through the development of an integrated electronic tourism information system-offering services such
as electronic marketing, electronic commerce, and electronic transactions-to provide benefits
associated with tourism growth, such as increased foreign exchange revenues and regional employment.
It also aims to promote private sector participation in the provision of tourist services and to strengthen
the institutional capability in the Directorate General for Tourism of MTPT.
These outputs will be accomplished by: (a) developing a feasible business model which
identifies the roles and responsibilities of participating organizations, establishes rules of data ownership
and sharing, establishes a strategy, formats and criteria for the development of products; and enables
electronic commerce transactions for essential services including but not limited to banking services,
airlines ticketing, and hotel reservations; (b) designing and implementing a pilot project to test the design
of the "server" system at WARTEL sites specified by the National Tourism Working Group (NTWG)
and established by the Directorate General of Tourism; and (c) implementing workshops to demonstrate
the successful lessons learned in the pilot. The resulting system will be referred to as the Electronic
Tourist Information System (ETIS).
This sub-component will respond to the needs of the Indonesian tourism and IT sectors for
expertise in the business and technology aspects of an advanced integrated electronic tourism
information system. Integrated electronic information systems with database systems incorporating
information from different organizations (ranging from airlines, to hotel associations, to car rental
companies, to banks) require innovative partnership agreements. In addition, to ensure that such a
system is sustainable requires an innovative business model, currently lacking in Indonesia.
In addition to developing a pilot "server" information/database system that collects, processes,
and packages the tourism information, this project will test the delivery of tourist information services at
selected regional "access points" through franchised retail telecom shops known as Warung
Telekommunikasi (WARTEL). The pilot will be tested at three sites selected by the NTWG. If
successful, the system will be expanded to other WARTELS by the private sector.
Progress and impact will be measured according to: (a) usage of the website to be developed; (b)
content development for the system; (c) compliance with pre-set milestones for the design, construction,
and deployment of the system; and (d) levels of private participation in the component's activities.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 10
Component D: Technical Assistance and Training Program (TATP) (US$ 15.4 million)
The Technical Assistance and Training Program (TATP) aims to strengthen the competitiveness
of Indonesia's fledgling information technology sector, as well as sectors dependent on information
technology. The GOI believes that if proper measures are taken to deepen and foster growth in the local
software and systems industries, these sectors will have the opportunity to capture a greater share of the
global market for such commercial activities as software development and IT-based services.
This component will establish a program to improve private sector access to applications,
maintenance, network management services, new information technologies, and electronic commerce.
Program features include: (a) procurement of services from a Management Contractor to administer the
program; (b) promotion of the program in order to generate a flow of applications to the TATP; (c)
evaluation and financing of proposals; and (d) monitoring impact of the program.
The TATP will be demand driven in that firms will receive support in the form of a cost-sharing
grant. This shared investment may be used only to obtain information technology capabilities and
business services from specialist suppliers. These suppliers may be private consultants (local or
international, individual or part of a firm) or publicly-sponsored information technology services.
Participating firms are allowed to choose the services they require (within the scope of the program) and
to select the supplier to furnish those services. In addition to cost-sharing grants, assistance may be
provided to help identify priority problems and opportunities which would benefit from external
expertise, help prepare detailed consultants' terms of reference, and help identify suitable consultants.
The types of technical assistance will include direct technical assistance, training, and special
studies. The TATP provides assistance for consultancy support only. It will not cover the cost of
acquiring plant and equipment, even if this is directly related to the consultancy. This program will place
special emphasis on developing participation by small- and medium-scale industries in Indonesia. To
qualify for aid under TATP, SMEs must be: (a) privately owned (i.e., with over 50% of the equity
privately owned); (b) small or medium scale as defined by annual sales of less than 2.5 billion rupiah
and/or assets less than 5 billion rupiah; and (c) based in Indonesia and projects must also be located in
Indonesia. The proportion of total contract costs covered by grant aid will vary. The highest level of
grant aid will be 70%, payable for the first project; for second and third projects, grants will be 50% and
30%, respectively, of eligible expenditure. The cash limit on total grant aid for projects for one SME
will be US$50,000.
This component is designed to surmount obstacles which obstruct IT growth and diffusion in
most developing countries: steep learning curves for enterprises in targeting the appropriate expertise and
training to upgrade IT capabilities; lack of awareness of how to integrate IT into operations; confusion
about the appropriateness of shelf products; poorly planned implementation which derails future systems
projects; and lack of appropriate in-house resources. Cost-sharing schemes have proven to significantly
reduce such barriers. TATP will help spread good technology practices by improving the private sector's
access to applications, maintenance, and network management services and to information on new
technologies and electronic commerce options.
This component will also address current weaknesses in Indonesia's consultancy sector.
Currently, private consultants serve mainly large firms, and few possess all the skills and experience
needed by SMEs. In the public sector, the technology service organizations are not demand driven, nor
in most cases are they accustomed to providing consultancy services on commercial terms.



Annex 2
Page 10 of 10
Nevertheless, experience of the technical service groups (supported by a previous WB loan), indicates
that there is demand for technical services among SMEs provided the right approach is taken and quality
services are available. The Export Support Board Matching Grant Program also demonstrates the
usefulness of cost-sharing grants to stimulate demand for services, as did a demand survey carried out
during project preparation.
The TATP will provide support to improve the quality of IT consultancy available in Indonesia
and to ensure firms receive assistance under the program only from properly qualified consultants, in two
main ways: (a) the TATP Management Contractor will provide a short training course on consulting
skills for all consultants wanting to operate under the program, plus related registration of specialist
consultants; and (b) groups of service providers (consultants) may use TATP funds on a 50/50 cost
sharing basis, to conduct seminars on information technology topics.
This project will be monitored by tracking: (a) the number of contracts executed on an
annualized basis; and (b) the number of applicants to the program; and (c) the rate of disbursal of grant
monies allocated to the program.
Component E: Project Management (US$ 2.7 million)
The project management and implementation units (CPMIU, PMIUs, and project committees)
will be strengthened through the provision of advisory services (excluding the PMIU for IPTEKnet),
office equipment, and computers. For detailed discussion of implementation plan and schedule, see the
Project Implementation and Procurement Plan in the project file.



Annex 3
Indonesia: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                       Local          Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million-----------------
N2I SC                                                    2.5            2.8           5.3
SEKNEG/DGCPT                                              0.7            4.0          4.7
IT Framework & SIMRENAS                                   1.6             1.8         3.4
S&T Network Expansion                                    6.6             9.9         16.5
of which private sector                               (1.9)
Post                                                      0.4            0.6           1.0
Tourism                                                   0.8            0.4           1.2
of which private sector                               (0.3)
TATP                                                     6.8             7.2          14.0
of which private sector                               (5.6)
Project Management Implementation Unit                  2.5              0           2.5
(includes CPMIU and PMIUs)
Total                                         21.9            26.7         48.6
of which private sector.                 (7.8)
Total Baseline Cost                          21.9            26.7         48.6
Contingencies (*)                             2.1             2.5          4.6
Total Project Cost                           24.0            29.2         53.2
of which private sector                  (8.5)
(*) Contingencies, including both physical and price, are assumed to be 9.7%. This rate was
calculated by the weighed average method between local and foreign procurement based
upon he following assumed numbers:
Contingencies                Local                    Foreign
Price                             8.00 %                    2.0 %
Physical                          3.00 %                    3.00 %
Total                             11.00%                    5.50%



i



Annex 4
Indonesia Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
S & T Network Expansion and Tourism Components
Present Value of Flows            Fiscal Impact
Economic  Financial Analysis
Analysis                           Taxes       Subsidies*
Benefits                N.A.                               N.A.        N.A.
See IRR worksheets in
Annex 5
Costs                   N.A.                               N.A.        NA.
Net Benefits:                       S&T Network
IRR 26.8% (Nominal)
18.8% (Real)
Tourism
IRR 26.9% (Nominal)
18.9% (Real)
* The Government of Indonesia and the private sector are to contribute to the project as co-
financiers, but these are not subsidies
Main assumptions:
(1) The IRR was calculated by a US$ base, with the base year as 1997.
(2) The total operating expenses of the project at current prices (year 2001 figures have
been assumed for year 2002 to 2016).
(3) The total operating revenues of the project at current prices (year 2001 figures have
been assumed for year 2002 to 2016).
(4) [Net Benefit] = [Net Operating Revenues] + [Investment] +
[Add-Back Depreciation on Investment]



I



Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
Annex 5
Indonesia: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities
S & T Network Expansion and Tourism Components
1998 - 2002
(in Millions of Current US$)
1998   1999    2000      2001    2002   Growth
Rate
S&T Network Expansion
Income Statement Items
Net Income                                          -0.7    0.9        3.2       4.6    4.7   100%
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources(1)                                  1.3    1.5       1.4        1.1    1.0
Borrowings (2)                                       2.4    3.0       2.6       2.1    2.0
Equity Investments                                    na     na        na        na      na
Total Sources                                     3.7    4.5        4.0       3.2    3.0
Capital Expenditures                                -4.0   - 3.6     -2.9      - 2.7     ---
Working Capital Increase                             0.3    0.9       1.1       0.5    3.0
Balance Sheet
Current Assets                                      3.23   7.57      11.67    14.73   17.77
Less current liabilities                    2.76   6.94     11.14     14.16   17.24
Net Fixed Assets (3)                                0.47   0.63      0.53      0.57    0.53
Total assets                                        3.70   8.20     12.20     15.30   18.30
Debt                                                2.40   5.40      8.00     10.00   12.00    150%
Equity (4)                                          1.30   2.80      4.20      5.30    6.30    188%
Total Liabilities and Equity                        3.70   8.20     12.20      15.30   18.30
(1) GOI + the Private Sector
(2) From the WB
(3) Net fixed assets = Equipment investment (except connectivity) - Depreciation (3 year constant amount)
(4) Equity = GOI finance + private sector finance



Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
Indonesia: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities
S & T Network Expansion and Tourism Components
1998 - 2002
(In Millions of Current US$)
1998   1999   2000    2001       2002        Growth
Rate
Tourism
Income Statement Items
Operating Income                            0.3    0.6    0.8         0.9      0.9        150%
Net Income                                 -0.9   -0.2    0.3         0.7       0.8       188%
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources(l)                      0.4     0.2
Borrowings (2)                           0.5    0.3           Investments for year I and 2 only
Equity Investments                        na      na
Total Sources                          0.9    0.5
Capital Expenditures                     -0.4    - 0.6
Working Capital Increase                 0.5    - 0.1
Balance Sheet
Current Assets                          0.80    1.35
Less current liabilities            0.70    1.30
Net fixed assets (3)                    0.10    0.05
Total assets                            0.90    1.40          Investments for year I and 2 only
Debt                                    0.50    0.80
Equity (4)                              0.40    0.60
Total liabilities and equity            0.90    1.40
(1) GOI + the Private Sector
(2) From the WB
(3) Net fixed assets = Equipment investment - Depreciation (3 year constant amount)
(4) Equity = GOI finance + Private Sector finance



Indonesia: Information Infrastructure Development Project (S&T Network)
Internal Rate of Return
Without Project                                  With Project                                 Project
Op'g Expns                                     Op'g Expns                                                         Add-Back
Excluding         Ttl Op'g  Ttl Op'g   Net Op'g  Excluding        Ttl Op'g  Ttl Op'g  Net Op'g  Net Op'g         Dprctn on    Net
Year     Dprctn    Dprctn   Expns    Rvns     Rvns      Dprctn    Dprctn   Expns    Rvns      Rvns      Rvns   Invstmnt  Invstmnt   Bnft
1997    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  148,756  3,125,110   584,760 -2,540,350  0 -3,232,406     0 -3,232,406
1998    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  4,485,330  278,720  4,764,050 1,491,140 -3,272,910  -732,560 -4,040,224  129,964 -4,642,820
1999    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  4,015,156  388,712  4,403,868 2,741,480 -1,662,388   877,962 -3,611,624  239,956 -2,493,706
2000    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110   584,760  -2,540,350  3,201,103  507,332  3,708,435 4,331,740   623,305  3,163,655 -2,869,552  358,576   652,679
2001    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  608,992  3,585,346 5,689,460  2,104,114  4,644,464 -2,664,676  460,236  2,440,024
2002    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  561,896  3,538,250 5,689,460  2,151,210 4,691,560  0 413,140  5,104,700
2003    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  533,592  3,509,946 5,689,460  2,179,514  4,719,864  0 384,836  5,104,700
2004    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  525,260  3,501,614 5,689,460  2,187,846  4,728,196  0  376,504  5,104,700
2005    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0  359,544  5,104,700
2006    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0 359,544  5,104,700
2007    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0  359,544  5,104,700
2008    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0  359,544  5,104,700
2009    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0  359,544  5,104,700
2010    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0 359,544  5,104,700
2011    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0  359,544  5,104,700
2012    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0  359,544  5,104,700
2013    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0 359,544  5,104,700
2014    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0 359,544  5,104,700
2015    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806 4,745,156  0  359,544  5,104,700
2016    2,976,354  148,756 3,125,110  584,760  -2,540,350  2,976,354  508,300  3,484,654 5,689,460  2,204,806  4,745,156  0 359,544  5,104,700
Estimated Internal Financial Rate of Return (Nominal)  26.75%
The Projected Annual Inflation Rate                 8.00%     -J .
Estimated Internal Financial Rate of Return        18.75%
(Real)                                                        (D
Notes                                                                               Estimated Net Present Value under 7.5% Discount Rate    24,543,330  X
(1) This table is prepared by a US$ base. 
0
(2) Total operating expenses of the project at current prices (2001 figures have been assumed for year 2002 to 2016)                              Ft,
(3) Total operating revenues of the project at current prices (2001 figures have been assumed for year 2002 to 2016)                               4
(4) (Net Benefit]=[Net Operating Revenuesj+[investment]+[Add-Back Depreciation on Investment]
M:\yoshi\indo\s&tirr1.xIs



Indonesia: Information Infrastructure Development Project (Tourism)
Internal Rate of Return
Without Project                                 With Project                                   Project
Op'g Expns                                    Op'g Expns                                                           Add-Back
Excluding         Ttl Op'g  Ttl Op'g  Net Op'g  Excluding        TtU Op'g  Ttl Op'g  Net Op'g  Net Op'g           Dprctn on    Net
Year     Dprctn    Dprctn   Expns    Rvns     Rvns      Dprctn    Dprctn   Expns    Rvns      Rvns      Rvns    Invstmnt  Invstmnt    Bnft
1997
1998            0       0        0        0        0    896,176  50,000  946,176          0  -946,176   -946,176  -402,000    50,000 -1,298,176
1999            0       0        0        0        0    448,088  50,000  498,088   300,000  -198,088   -198,088  -604,000    50,000   -752,088
2000            0       0        0        0         0    224,044  50,000  274,044   600,000   325,956    325,956        0    50,000    375,956
2001            0       0        0        0         0    149,363      0  149,363   800,000   650,637    650,637         0         0   650,637
2002            0       0        0        0         0    149,363     .0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637         0         0    750,637
2003            0       0        0        0         0    149,363      0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637         0         0    750,637
2004            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2005            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2006            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2007            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2008            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2009            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2010            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2011            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2012            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2013            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0   750,637
2014            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2015            0       0        0        0         0    149,363       0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637        0         0    750,637
2016            0       0        0        0         0    149,363      0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637         0         0    750,637
2017            0       0        0        0         0    149,363      0  149,363   900,000   750,637    750,637         0         0    750,637
Estimated Internal Financial Rate of Return (Nominal)  26.86%
The Projected Annual Inflation Rate                   8.00%
Estimated Internal Financial Rate of Return (Real)   18.86%
Notes                                                                               Estimated Net Present Value under 7.5% Discount Rate  4,069,650          >
(1) This table is prepared by a US$ base.                                                                                                                 rQ n
(2) Total operating expenses of the project at current prices (2001 figures have been assumed for year 2002 to 2017)                                         X
(3) Total operating revenues of the project at current prices (2001 figures have been assumed for year 2002 to 2017)                                         x
0
(4) [Net Benefit]=[Net Operating Revenues]+[investment]+[Add-Back Depreciation on Investment]
M:\yoshi\indo\trsmirl.xIs



Annex 6
Indonesia: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
A summary of procurement arrangements is given in Table 6A. Procurement will be the
responsibility of each of the implementing agencies (BAPPENAS, BPPT, DGCPT, MOIT, MTPT, and
SEKNEG) which will establish bid evaluation and consultant selection committees for all procurement
activities. All of the implementing agencies are familiar with procurement guidelines and procedures,
except for DGCPT and SEKNEG. Further assistance in the implementation of WB procurement and
disbursement procedures would be provided by the RSI staff in Indonesia and at a planned project launch
workshop, following Loan effectiveness. The WB's standard bidding documents and standard form of
contract shall be adopted for all procurement of goods under international competitive bidding (ICB) and
selection of consultants without any modifications or amendments, as recently (July 30, 1997) agreed by
the Government of Indonesia.
Goods. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated
to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more each. A total of 3 goods contracts, proposed for WB financing is
indicated in the procurement schedule (see Project Implementation and Procurement Plan in the project
file). Procurement of all goods amounting to US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US$7.7
million shall be based on international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank in January
1995, and revised in January and August 1996. Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan shall be prepared and furnished by the Borrower for the Bank's
review and approval. For the procurement of goods under ICB, goods manufactured locally would be
eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of either 15% of the CIF bid price of such goods or the amount
of duties and other related import charges, whichever is lower. Small contracts for goods including goods
for the operation of the PMIUs amounting to less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$1.2 million may be procured on the basis of national shopping
procedures, by obtaining at least three quotations from qualified suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the WB.
Consultants 'Services. A summary of procurement arrangements is given in Table 6A 1.
Consultants' services, including workshops, policy studies, twinning arrangement, training and other
technical assistance are a rnajor input to this project. Consultants' services contracts proposed for WB
financing is indicated in the procurement schedule (see Project Implementation and Procurement Plan in
the project file). Consultants' services shall be selected in accordance with the WKB "Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", January 1997, and use the WB's
standard request for proposals and form of contract for consultants' services. All consultants'
assignments of US$200,000 or more will be advertised in accordance with the consultants' guidelines. In
principle, most consultants' services including the TATP Management Contractor would be procured
under contract awarded according to quality and cost-based selection procedures (QCBS). Individual
consultants will be hired for BAPPENAS and SEKNEG on the basis of their qualification for the
assignments. The twinning arrangement for BPPT shall be awarded through quality-based selection
(QBS) due to the complex and highly-specialized nature of the work. Services to be financed under
TATP grants will be awarded to service delivery contractors eligible in accordance with commercial
practices acceptable to the WB for services costing less than US$ 100,000, as indicated in the TATP
Implementation Manual.
Review Procedures. As shown in Table 6B, all contracts for goods estimated to cost US$200,000
or more and procured by ICB will be subject to the WB's prior review. Prior review by the WB is



Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
expected to cover approximately 87% of the total value of the goods contracts. This will be
complemented by post review of one in ten of those contracts not subject to prior review.
Contracts for employment of individual consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 or more would
require WB's prior review. With respect of consulting firms estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, the
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to the WB for its prior review and approval. The WB will review and approve the contract for
the TATP Management Contractor. Procedures for review and approval by the WB for TATP grant
program are described in the TATP Implementation Manual, which include that the first five grant
contracts shall be subject to prior review to ensure that satisfactory procedures are being followed. The
WB will retain the option to review all contracts regardless of size, to ensure procedures are being
followed.
All procurement activities carried out shall be reported to the WB in the Annual Implementation
Report.
Disbursement
The WB loan will be disbursed against: (a) for goods (excluding vehicles), 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 65% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally; (b) 80% of expenditures for local workshops and overseas study-tours under Part A.6 of
the Project; (c) 80% of expenditures for consulting services, except 100% for TATP Management
Contractor under Part D.2 of the Project; (d) 100% of expenditures of TATP grants; (e) expenditures for
Project management costs, including advisory services, administrative costs, travel, consumables, office
supplies, per-diem and honoraria for staff, excluding salaries, will be financed at 100%; and (f)
incremental operating cost for IPTEKnet as incurred in FY 1998/1999 and FY 1999/2000 - 75%, FY
2000/2001 and FY 2001/2002 - 50%. Table 6C shows the allocation of loan proceeds to each category.
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of TAT program unless the TATP management contract shall
have been entered into a manner satisfactory to the WB; and in respect of Category 1(a) procurement of
DGCPT automation equipment, unless the WB has received a satisfactory action plan for strengthening
of DGCPT. The table below shows the estimated disbursements from the IBRD loan, by IBRD fiscal
year.
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
Annual               3.0    8.0  11.5   8.0   4.0
Cumulative           3.0   11.0  22.5  30.5  34.5
Withdrawal applications shall be fully documented for all expenditures against which loan
disbursements would be made, except for the following contracts for which loan disbursements would be
made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (a) local workshops and overseas study tours; (b)
expenditures under TATP grants; (c) goods under contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent
each; (d) incremental operating costs; (e) project management costs; and (f) contracts for the employment
of: (i) consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each, and (ii) individual consultants
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each. Documents supporting the SOEs shall be retained by the
respective project management implementing units and made available for review as requested by WB
supervision missions. The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed WB loan is given in the
Project Implementation and Procurement Plan in the project file and is based on the standard
disbursement profile for projects in Indonesia.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
SpecialAccount. In order to facilitate disbursement, the GOI shall establish a Special Account in
Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the WB. The
authorized allocation of the special account shall be limited to US$1.25 million, which shall be increased
to US$2.5 million, covering approximately four months of eligible expenditures, when the aggregate
amount of withdrawal from the loan plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments reach
US$5.0 million. This account shall be maintained by the Director General of Budget, MOF.
Replenislhment applications to the Special Account shall be made on a monthly basis, or when 20% of the
authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first. During negotiations an agreement was
reached that the Special Account and the necessary organizational structure for its operation, including
appropriate accounting and auditing procedures, shall be established in a manner satisfactory to the WB
in Bank Indonesia or in state commercial bank.
ProjectAccounts andAudits
During negotiations, the WB received assurances that BAPPENAS, BPPT, DGCPT, MOIT, MTPT
and SEKNEG, under the co-ordination of the CPMIU (MTPT), would establish and maintain project
related accounts for their respective project components. Those project accounts shall reflect all project
resources and expenditures and shall be maintained annually in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual project accounts shall be prepared in accordance with international
accounting standards and audited in accordance with international standards on auditing by independent
auditors acceptable of the WB. A review of the Special Account and an auditor's opinion with special
emphasis on the audit of the SOEs shall be provided annually. The auditor's report shall include a
statement on the adequacy of the accounting systems and internal controls, the reliability of the statement
of expenditures as a basis for loan disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants. The audited
project accounts and the auditor's report thereof, shall be furnished to the WB within six months after the
end of each fiscal year.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
Table 6A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category          Procurement Method                Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB    NCB    Other    NBF
1. Goods                           7.7      0.0     1.2      0.0      8.9
(7.5)   (0.0)    (0.4)    (0.0)   (7.9)
2. Consultants' Services                           23.8      1.1     24.8
(17.1)   (0.0)    (17.1)
3. Miscellaneous
Local workshops & overseas study-tours          0.4      0.0      0.4
(0.4)    (0.0)    (0.4)
Incremental Operating Cost                      5.5      1.3      6.8
(3.0)    (0.0)    (3.0)
TATP Grants                                     6.1      6.1     12.3
(6.1)   (0:0)    (6.1)
Total                            7.7      0.0    37.0      8.5     53.2
(7.5)   (0.0)  (27.0)    (0.0)    (34.5)
Note:
Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by the Bank loan
ICB:   International Competitive Bidding
NBF:  Not Bank-financed
Other: Includes national shopping and selection of consultants under IBRD Guidelines



Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
Table 6A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                  (including
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS   INDV.   Other    NBF  contingencies)
A.   Firms                      15.7      7.0      0.0     6.1      7.2        36.1
(11.0)    (5.5)    (0.0)    (6.1)    (0.0)    (22.6)
B.   Individuals                                   1.4                         1.4
(1.0)                       (1.0)
TOTAL                      15.7     7.0      1.4      6.1      7.2       37.5
(11. 0)    (5.5)    (1.0)    (6.1)    (0.0)    (23.6)
Note:
Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
Total Consultancy Cost includes TATP Grants & Local Workshops, Overseas study-tours
QCBS: Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
QBS: Quality-Based Selection
INDV: Selection of Individual Consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
Other: Commercial Practices
NBF:  Not Bank-financed



Annex 6
Page 6 of 7
Table 6B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(figures in US$)
Expenditure        Contract Value      Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threshold)           Method                Prior Review
1. Goods                > $200,000           ICB               > $200,000
< $50,000           National Shopping   None
2. Consultants' Services   As per January 1997
Bank Guidelines on
Consultant Services
a) Twinning                               QBS                > $100,000
b) TATP Management                        QCBS               > $100,000
Contractor
c) Other Consultants'                     QCBS               > $50,000 for individuals*
Services                                                  > $100,000 for firms*
d) Consulting Services                    Selection based on  TOR, qualifications and contract
by Individuals                         qualifications     prior to signature
e) TATP grants                            Commercial         First five contracts
Practices
*Short list and RFP's for all consultant contracts as well as all individual appointments, irrespective
of dollar amount are subject to prior review.
Note:
ICB:   International Competitive Bidding
QBS:  Quality Based Selection
QCBS: Quality-and Cost-Based Selection



Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
Table 6C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds a/
Expenditure Category                     Amount    Financing Percentage
(US$million)
1.    Goods (excluding vehicles)                           100% of foreign expenditure,
a.  under Part A.4 (a) of the Project       2,670,000    100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 65% of
b.  other goods                             4,290,000    local expenditures for other
items procured locally
2.    Local workshops & overseas study tours    400,000                 80%
under Part A.6 of the Project
3.    Consultants' Services                                             80%
a.  under Part A of the Project             5,920,000
b.  under Part B of the Project             4,980,000
c.  under Part C.1 of the Project            770,000
d.  under Part C.2 of the Project            660,000
4.    Part D of the Project:
a.  TATP Grants                             5,600,000                100%
b.  Consultants' services under Part D.2    2,200,000                100%
of the Project
c.  Other Consultants' services,             400,000                 80%
training and studies for TAT Program
5.    Project Management                        850,000                100%
6.    Incremental Operating Costs             2,750,000    75% of expenditures incurred in
FY1998/1999 and FY1999/2000;
and 50% of expenditures incurred
in FY2000/2001 and FY2001/2002
7.    Unallocated                             3,010,000
TOTAL                                  34,500,000
a/ The description of the expenditure category as defined in the Loan Agreement



-.1 .... I.- - . .



Annex 7
Indonesia: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$ '000)                         Planned                  Actual
(at appraisal stage)    (as of September 30, 1997)
316.2                   414.6
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned                  Actual
(at final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           8 months
First Bank mission (identification)                  11/20/96                11/20/96
Preparation mission                                  2/16/97                  2/16/97
Appraisal                                            5/12/97                  5/12/97
Negotiations                                         9/22/97                  9/22/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        1/12/98                _/_/19_
It is estimated that at least 100 staff weeks will be required to supervise the project over its five-year life
span. This is warranted for three reasons:
*   A new and broad-reaching policy function will be established which will demand significant WB input
to manage the interagency and cross-sectoral impact.
*   Although the project leadership is firmly established within the executing agency MTPT, considerable
communications are also anticipated between the WB and the implementing agencies, especially
BAPPENAS, SEKNEG, and BPPT.
*   Each component of this project involves planning and implementation of management information
systems and other networked computer systems, activities which inevitably encounter institutional
challenges that must be addressed in the course of implementation.
C. Prepared by:
Ministry of Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications (MTPT), Director General of Post, Director General
of Tourism, PT. Pos Indonesia, National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), Agency for
Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT), Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOIT), Secretary of
State (SEKNEG), and Director General of Copyrights, Patents and Trademarks (DGCPT).
Preparation assistance: Canadian Trust Funds
Bank staff who have worked on the project include:
R. Schware (Task Manager & Senior Informatics Specialist), T. Genta Fons (Lawyer), K. Wirasubrata
(Operations Officer, Resident Mission), K. Ranganathan (Postal Specialist), Y. Kawamura (Financial
Analyst), H. Hettige (Economist), R. Morris (Consultant, IT Strategy), K. Daruwalla (Procurement
Analyst), R. Crawford (Competition Specialist), V. Ziegler (Information Management Specialist), S.
Hume (DAIS), D. Mans (Sr. Industrial Economist), Oscar de Bruyn Kops (Sr. Operations Officer),Larry
Forgy (Consultant, Economist), M. Rodriguez-Garcia (staff assistant)






Annex 8
Indonesia: Information Infrastructure Development Project (IIDP)
Documents in the Project File
A. Bank Documents
Back-to-Office Report from Conference on Ensuring National Competition
in the Information Economy, Jakarta, Indonesia, May 20, 1996
Identification Mission TOR, Aide Memoire, Back-to-Office Report, December 6, 1996
Preparation Mission TOR, Aide Memoire, Back-to-Office Report, March 21, 1997
Draft Project Concept Document (PCD), April 4, 1997
PCD Review Meeting Minutes, February 14, 1997
Environmental Clearance Memo, April 23, 1997
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) Review Meeting Minutes, April 29, 1997
Regional Vice President (RVP) Approval to Appraise, May 8, 1997
Appraisal Mission TOR, Aide Memoire, May 23, 1997; Back-to-Office Report, June 2, 1997
S&T Component Incremental Operating Costs Analysis, August 28, 1997
Project Implementation and Procurement Plan, October 15, 1997
B. Other
NUSANTARA-21: Vision & Concept of NUSANTARA Information Community, November 1996.
MTPT commissioned report on The State of Information Technology Sector in Indonesia, March 1996.
Papers and proceedings from the Conference on Ensuring National Competition in the Information
Economy, April 24-26, 1996, Jakarta.
Follow-up Action Plan from the above conference which selected high priority areas where GOI
action will significantly leverage the productivity and performance of the private sector.
Papers and proceedings from the workshop sponsored by BAPPENAS, CIDA, and the World Bank in
which draft Framework and Strategy for National Information Systems Development was drawn up.
Report on the Establishment of Technical Assistance and Training Program, P.T. Data Consultants,
Jakarta, May 1997.
WTO Ministerial Declaration on Trade in Information Technology Products (ITA), 26 March 1997.
BPPT report on Strenghtening IPTEKnet on S& T Netwvork Capabilities, August 1997.
Indonesia Enters NUSANTARA-21 Suiperhighway to Bolster National Competitiveness in Informnation
Economy, Products and Industry, Vol 2, No. 6, 1997, pages 60-65.






Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
between expected
in US$ Millions                          and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                         Original Amount                                     disbursements /a
Project ID   Credit No.   Year  Borrower                  Purpose                     IBRD          IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed    Orig        Frm' Rev
Number of Closed Loans: 156/Credits: 48
Active Loans
ID-PE-3873    IBRD  31580  1990    GOI   Second Secondary Education                         154.20         0.00         0.00        15.25        15.25            0
ID-PE-3960    IBRD  32090  1990    GOI   Gas Utilization                                     86.00         0.00         0.00        27.17        27.17         27.2
ID-PE-3868    IBRD  32190  1990    GOI   Second Jabotabek Urban Development                 190.00        0.00          0.00        21.66        21.66            0
ID-PE-3977    IBRD  32460  1991    GOI   Third Jabotabek Urban Development                  61.00         0.00          0.00        14.24        14.24            0
ID-PE-3959    IBRD  32820  1991    GOI   Fertilizer Restructuring                          221.70          0.00         0.24         6.95         7.20         6.96
ID-PE-3981    IBRD  33020  1991    GOI   Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Dev.              125.00        0.00         21.50        12.78        34.28         12.78
ID-PE-3912    IBRD  33050  1991    GOI   YogyakartaUplandAreaDevelopment                     15.50         0.00         1.30         0.62         1.92         0.62
ID-PE-3928    IBRD  34020  1992    GOI   Agricultural Financing                             106.10        0.00          0.00        40.59        40.59            0
ID-PE-3966    IBRD  34310  1992    GOI   Third Non-Formal Education                         69.50          0.00         0.00         6.23         6.23            0
ID-PE-3940    IBRD  34480  1992    GOI   Primary Education Quality Improvement               37.00         0.00         0.00        13.81        13.81            0
ID-PE-3860    IBRD  34640  1992    GOI   Treecrops Smallholder                               87.60         0.00         0.00        29.39        29.39            0
ID-PE-3997    IBRD  34820  1992    GOI   Fourth Telecommunications                         375.00          0.00         0.00       154.99       154.99            0
ID-PE-3969    IBRD  34960  1992    GOI   Primary School Teacher Development                 36.60          0.00         0.00         9.19         9.19            0
ID-PE-3916    IBRD  35010  1992    GOI   Suralaya Thermal Power                            423.60          0.00       100.00        95.81       195.81        95.81
ID-PE-3970    IBRD  35260  1993    GOI   Financial Sector Development                      307.00          0.00        39.81        41.22        81.03        41.21
ID-PE-3914    IBRD  35500  1993    GOI   Third Community Health & Nutrition                 93.50          0.00         0.00        32.43        32.43            0
ID-PE-4006    IBRD  35790  1993    GOI   E. Indonesia Kabupaten Roads                       155.00         0.00         0.00        21.60        21.60            0
ID-PE-4009    IBRD  35860  1993    GO   Integrated Pest Management                         32.00          0.00         0.00        14.78        14.78            0
ID-PE-3999    IBRD  35880  1993    GOI   GroundNvater Development                            54.00         0.00        18.94        12.12        31.06         12.12
ID-PE-4018    IBRD  35890  1993    GOI   Flores Earthquake Reconstruction                   42.10          0.00         0.00         2.95         2.95            0
ID-PE-4007    IBRD  36020  1993    GOI   Cirata Hydroelectric Phase It                      104.00         0.00         0.00        62.65        62.65            0
ID-PE-3990    IBRD  36290  1993    GOI   Water Supply & Sanitation for Low Income            80.00         0.00         0.00        45.27        45.27        45.28           P)
ID-PE-3985    IBRD  36580  1994    GOI   National Watershed Mgmt and Conservation            56.50         0.00         0.00        44.97        44.97            0
ID-PE-3945    IBRD  37120  1994    GOI   Second Highway Sector Investment                  350.00          0.00         0.00       199.95       199.95            0
ID-PE-3952    IBRD  37210  1994    GOI   Skills Development                                 27.70          0.00         4.91        10.24        15.15            0
ID-PE-3998    IBRD  37260  1994    GOI   Surabaya Urban Development                         175.00         0.00         0.00       117.26       117.26            0           0  (D
ID-PE-4020    IBRD  37320  1994    GOI   Fifth Kabupaten Roads                              101.50         0.00         0.00        25.59        25.59            0           Fh X
ID-PE-4010    IBRD  37420  1994    GOI   Dam Safety                                          55.00         0.00         0.00        38.25        38.25            0           >  %D
ID-PE-3890    IBRD  37490  1994    GO   Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development               174.00         0.00         0.00       113.79       113.79            0
ID-PE-4017    IBRD  37540  1994    G01   University Research for Graduation Study            58.90         0.00         0.00        33.83        33.83            0
ID-PE-3937    IBRD  37550  1994    GOI   Integrated Swamps                                   65.00         0.00         0.00        39.14        39.14            0
ID-PE-3910    IBRD  37610  1994    GOI   Sumatera & Kalimantan Power                       260.50          0.00         0.00       223.51       223.51            0
ID-PE-3954    IBRD  37620  1994    GOI   Java Irrigation Improvements and Wtr Resource      165.70         0.00         0.00       109.87       109.87            0
ID-PE-3984    IBRD  37920  1995    GOI   Land Administration                                 80.00         0.00         0.00        57.71        57.71            0
ID-PE-4019    IBRD  38010  1995    GOI   Second Accountancy Development                     25.00          0.00         0.00        18.82        18.82            0
ID-PE-3988    IBRD  38250  1995    GOI   Second Professional Resource Development           69.00          0.00         0.00        42.18        42.18            0
ID-PE-3979    IBRD  38450  1995    GOI   Second Rural Electrification                      398.00          0.00         0.00       262.72       262.72            0



Difference
between expected
in US$ Millions                         and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                      Original Amount                                    disbursements /a
Project ID   Credit No.   Year  Borrower                 Purpose                   IBRD          IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed   Orig       Frm' Rev
ID-PE-3951    IBRD  38540  1995    GOI   Kalimantan Urban Development                    136.00        0.00         0.00        88.65        88.65           0
ID-PE-3972    IBRD  38866  1995    GOI   Second Agriculture Research Management           63.00        0.00         0.00        56.23        58.23           0
ID-PE-3968   IBRD  38870  1995    GOI   Book& Reading Development                          2.10        0.00         0.00         0.10       130.50           0
ID-PE-3968   IBRD  38876  1995    GOI                                                    130.40        0.00         0.00       116.01       118.11           0
ID-PE-34891   IBRD  38886  1995    GOI   Village Infrastructure                           47.10        0.00         0.00         3.90        29.30           0
ID-PE-4001    IBRD  39046  1995    GOI   Telecommunications Sector Modernization         325.00        0.00         0.00       309.30       309.30           0
ID-PE-3965    IBRD  39050  1995    GOI   Fourth Health                                     1.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        87.00           0
ID-PE-3965    IBRD  39056  1995    GOI   Second Technical Assistance for Infrastructure   87.00        0.00         0.00        79.98        80.98           0
ID-PE-39754   IBRD  39136  1995    GOI                                                    28.00        0.00         0.00        26.43        26.43           0
ID-PE-3978    IBRD  39720  1996    GOI   Industrial Technology Development                47.00        0.00         0.00        41.00        41.00           0
ID-PE-4021    IBRD  39780  1996    GOI   Second Power Transmission and Distribution      373.00        0.00         0.00       372.21       372.21           0
ID-PE-4003    IBRD  39790  1996    GOI   Second TeacherTraining                           60.40        0.00         0.00        55.11        55.11           0
ID-PE-39643   IBRD  39810  1996    GOI   STD/AIDS                                         24.80        0.00         0.00        23.73        23.73           0
ID-PE-4008    IBRD  39840  1996    GOI   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Development            27.00        0.00         0.00        24.80        24.80           0
ID-PE-4011    IBRD  40070  1996    GOI   Sulawesi Agriculture Area Development            26.80        0.00         0.00        24.45        24.45           0
ID-PE-4014    IBRD  40080  1996    GOI   Kerinci SeblatlCDP                               19.10        0.00         0.00        18.50        18.50           0
ID-PE-39312  IBRD  40170  1996    GOI   Second E. Java Urban Development                 142.70        0.00         0.00       129.64       129.64           0
ID-PE-41896   IBRD  40300  1996    GOI   Human Resource Capacity Building                 20.00        0.00         0.00        19.31        19.31           0
ID-PE-37097   IBRD  40420  1996    GOI   E. Java Junior Secondary Education               99.00        0.00         0.00        96.50        96.50           0
ID-PE-4004   IBRD  40430  1996    GOI   Higher Education Support                          65.00        0.00         0.00        58.05        58.05           0
ID-PE-4016   IBRD  40540  1996    GOI   Strategic Urban Roads                             86.90        0.00         0.00        80.10        80.10           0
ID-PE-3987    IBRD  40620  1997    GOI   C. Indonesia Secondary Education                104.00        0.00         0.00       101.38       101.38           0
ID-PE-41894  IBRD  40950  1997    GOI   Sumatra Secondary Education                       98.00        0.00         0.00        95.00        95.00           0
ID-PE-40521  IBRD  41000  1997    GOI   Second Village Infrastructure                    140.10        0.00         0.00       132.21       132.21           0
ID-PE-36053   IBRD  41050  1997    GOI   Second Sulawesi Urban Development               155.00        0.00         0.00       150.00       150.00           0
ID-PE-4026    IBRD  41060  1997    GO6   Railway Efficiency                              105.00        0.00         0.00       105.00       105.00           0
ID-PE-42540  IBRD  41250  1997    GOI   Iodine Deficiency Control                         28.50        0.00         0.00        27.50        27.50           0
ID-PE-35544  IBRD  41320  1997    GOI   Solar Homes Systems                              20.00         0.00         0.00        20.00        20.00           0          On
ID-PE-36047   IBRD  41550  1997    GOI   Bali Urban Infrastructure                       110.00        0.00         0.00       110.00         0.00           0
ID-PE-40195   IBRD  41930  1997    GOI   Undergraduate Education                          71.20        0.00         0.00        71.20        71.20           0           ,  1
ID-PE-49051   IBRD  41940  1997    GO6    BEPEKA Audit Modernization                      16.40        0.00         0.00        16.40         0.00           0
ID-PE-42882   IBRD  41980  1997    GOI   Renewable Energy Small Power                     66.40        0.00         0.00        66.40        66.40           0
ID-PE-36956   IBRD  42070   98      GOI   Safe Motherhood                                42.50         0.00         0.00        42.50         0.00           0
Total                                                                                  7.6S4.60        0.00       186.70     4.581.12     4.846.83      241.98
Active Loans Closed Loans      Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                            2.916.74    15.416.98    18,333.72
of which has been repaid                                                57.94     7,320.55     7,378.49
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                            7,439.92     8,120.69    15,560.61
Amount sold                                                                   0.00        88.08       88.08
of which repaid                                                          0.00        88.08       88.08
4.581.12       24.31     4.605.43



Annex 9
Page 3 of 5
Indonesia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 -Aug-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1971                  Unitex                   0.00     .35    0.00    0.00    0.00     .35    0.00    0.00
1980/87               Semen Andalas            8.14   10.02    0.00    8.99    8.14   10.02    0.00    8.99
1982/84/93            Saseka Finance           0.00     .38    0.00    0.00    0.00     .38    0.00    0.00
1988                  Manulife                0.00      .32    0.00    0.00    0.00     .32    0.00    0.00
1989                  PT Agro Muko            2.94    2.20    0.00    3.18    2.94    2.20    0.00    3.18
1989/91/94            PT Astra                0.00   12.16    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.16    0.00    0.00
1990/91/93/95         PT Indo-Rama           34.87    8.72    0.00   56.85   34.87    8.72    0.00   56.85
1991                  LYON-MLF-lbis           2.11    0.00    0.00    2.11    2.11    0.00    0.00    2.11
1991                  PT Argo Pantes          13.13   13.00    0.00   18.93   13.13   13.00    0.00   I9.93
1991                  PT Indaci               0.00    0.00    1.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.44    0.00
1991                  PT RIMBA                6.85      .60    0.00    3.33    6.85     .60    0.00    3.33
1991                  SEAVI Indonesia         0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1992                  PT Swadharma           21.78    0.00    0.00   35.19   21.78    0.00    0.00   35.19
1992/94/96            PT KIA Keramik         25.72    9.12    0.00   84.64   17.23    8.99    0.00   57.13
1992/95               PT Viscose             31.33    0.00    0.00   45.89   31.33    0.00    0.00   45.89
1992/95/97            PT Bakrie Kasei        46.54    0.00    0.00   69.02   46.54    0.00    0.00   69.02
1993                  PTNusantara             3.60    0.00    0.00   10.70    3.18    0.00    0.00   10.38
1993                  PT Samudera             1.91    5.00    0.00    5.84    1.91    5.00    0.00    5.84
1993/96               PTBBLDharmala           15.34    0.00    0.00   35.55   15.34    0.00    0.00   35.55
1994                  KDLC Bali               12.00    1.14    0.00    0.00   12.00    1.14    0.00    0.00
1994                  Prudential Asia          0.00    6.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.19    0.00    0.00
1994                  PAMA (Indonesia)        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  PT PAMA                  0.00     .71    0.00    0.00    0.00     .71    0.00    0.00
1994                  PT Saripuri             7.11    0.00    0.00   18.00    7.11    0.00    0.00   18.00
1995                  PT Bakrie Pet           10.15    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  PT Bunas Finance         8.55    0.00    0.00    4.50    8.55    0.00    0.00    4.50
1995                  PT Citimas Captl        0.00    1.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.31    0.00    0.00
1995                  PT Grahawita            0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1995                  PT Hotel Santika        9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  PT KIA Serpih           15.00    6.35    0.00   49.50   15.00    6.24    0.00   49.50
1995                  PT Panin Finance        6.00    1.93    0.00    8.00    6.00    1.93    0.00    8.00
1995                  PTBakrie Pipe           17.14    0.00    9.50    0.00   17.14    0.00    9.50    0.00
1996                  PT Dharmala            20.00    0.00    0.00   15.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1996                  PTPramindo Ikat        25.00    8.18   25.00  300.00   25.00    3.27   25.00    0.00
1997                  PTAlumindo              15.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  PT Astra Dian           0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00
1997                  PT Astra Graphia        0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  PT Berlian              0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  PT Kalimantan          20.00   15.00    0.00    6.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  PT Karabha               0.00   10.43    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.43    0.00    0.00
1997                  PT Sayap                14.00    0.00    0.00   27.99   10.00    0.00    0.00   20.00
1997                  PT Wings                11.00    0.00    0.00   27.01    8.68    0.00    0.00   21.32
Total Portfolio:                  404.21  138.24   41.33  856.22  349.48  110.53   40.94  483.71
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 10/15/97



Annex 9
Page4 of 5
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997                   ADES ALFINDO            24.00    7.00    0.00   46.00
1997                   NISP A LOAN INCR         5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   PANIN FINANCE 11         6.00    0.00    0.00    4.00
1996                   PANIN 11 - BLINC         0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00
1996                   PT ASIANAGRO            40.00    0.00    0.00   40.00
1995                   PT BAKRIE PIPE           0.00    0.00    0.00    13.00
1997                   PT BANK NISP             5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   PT BLT                  22.00    0.00    0.00   68.00
1995                   PT INDO-RAMA RI          0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1995                   PT VISCOSE 11            0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          102.00    14.50    0.00   175.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 10/15/97



Annex 9
Page 5 of 5
Republic of Indonesia
MIGA Guarantees
Project Name                Sector           Date  TAmount of Guarantee
I   (US$ million)    l
P.T. Hokuriku United Forging Ind.   Manufacturing       Jan-92         1.5
P.T. Paiton Energy Company       Power                  Dec-95         50.0
P.T. East Java Power Corporation   Power                Feb-97         15.0
P.T. Ariawest International     Telecommunications      Jun-97         13.9
Total                                                                  80.4






Annex 1 0
Page 1 of 2
Indonesia at a glance                                                                8/15/97
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                East  middle-
Indonesia      Asia  income        Development diamoncr
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         196.1     1,726    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                              1 090       690    1,750                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                213.7     1,542    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                           16        1.3       1.4     GNP                                Gross
Labor force (%)                                          2.5       1.3       1.8     pr
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               11
Urban population (% oftotal population)                  36         31       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         64         68       67
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)                51         40       41                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               11
Access to safe water (% of population)                   63         49       78
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                      16         17                    -Indonesia
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   115        117      104
Male                                                  117        120      105                 Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                113        116      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratlos*
GDP (billions US$)                            32.1      87.2     208.6    230.8 6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 23.7      26.1      32.4     32.7               Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP             23.2     22.2       26.4     26.2               O
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    25.9      27.8      33.5      34.0
Gross national savings/GDP                    23.4      22.8      28.2      28.4
Current account balance/GDP                    -3.4     -2.2      -3.4      -3.5
Interest payments/GDP                           1.0      2.3       2.4       2.3     Savings       <               Investment
Total debt/GDP                                35.8      42.1      51.7      46.9
Total debt service/exports                     15.1     28.8      29.9      33.0
Present value of debtGDP                         ..               51.0
Present value of debt/exports                             ..    187.7                             Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995       1996  1997-05    1
(average annual growth)                                                                    -  Indonesia
GDP                                   7.0      7.9       8.2       7.8       7.7
GNP per capita                        4.3      6.1       5.8       6.3       6.4               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        -1.0      9.3       8.6       6.3       9.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995      1996
(% of GDP)                                                                         I Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                   30.2      23.2      17.2      16.3     20
Industry                                      33.5      35.9      41.5      42.7     19
Manufacturing                                 9.8     16.0       24.2     25.2     10
Services                                      36.3      40.9      41.4      41.0      5
0
Private consumption                           65.1      60.4      58.6      58.3             91   92    93   94   95   95
General government consumption                 9.0      11.8       7.9       7.7              -GDI           GOP
Imports of goods and services                 21.0      20.5      25.2     24.9
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            r Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
Agriculture                                    4.2       3.4       4.2       1.9     30
Industry                                       7.0       99       10.4      104
Manufacturing                                14.5     11.2       10.8     11.0     20
Services                                       9.0       8.1       7.7       7.4
Private consumption                            9.8      6.9        9.7       9.2
General government consumption                10.5      4.8        1.3       3.8    i °
Gross domestic investment                     12.1      10.7      13.0       9.1             91   92   93   94   95   9s
Imports of goods and services                  8.8       9.4      15.8       9.6
Gross national product                         6.5       7.9       7.4       7.5                    p      ---p
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                    Inflatlon (%)
(% change)                                                                         10
Consumer prices                               19.1      4.7       9.4      8.0
Implicit GDP deflator                         11.2     4.3        9.4      7.5      5
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                          0
Current revenue                                 .      19.2      14.7     15.4             91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                                  6 0       5.4      6.1             -     GDP def. -C--GPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                -3 2       0.8      0.9
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                  18,823    47,754   52,192     60,000
Fuel                                               12,804    10,616   12,594
Rubber                                               714      2,330    2,388
Manufactures                                        2,287    29,054   31,617      40,000
Total imports (cif)I.   14,056    46,039   50,815
Food                                           ..     812     3,397    3,852      Now00
Fuel and energy                                     2,870     3,563    4,414                                  II
Capital goods                                 ..    5,394    18,957   21,135         0      .,I
Export price index (1987=100)                          121        137        .            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                           85        127                             Exports   ilImports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                              143        108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                            .                         Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               6.981   19,371     52,938   58,017      0
Imports of goods and services               6,775   17,840    51,589   57,050          90  91   92   93   94   95   96
Resource balance                              207    1,531      1,349      968
Net income                                  -1,342   -3,542    -7,832   -8,766
Net current transfers                          27       88       -504     -256
-2
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers         -1,108   -1,923    -6,987   -8,054
Financing items (net)                         257      962      9,638   11,927
Changes in net reserves                       851      961    -2,651   -3,873       4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)           592   13,184     16,000   19,873
Conversion rate (#ocaI.SS)                  415.0  1,110.6   2,255.0  2,362.0
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        11,498   36,715   107,831  108,300                           A
IBRD                                         57    3,590     12,503   11,138                         12503
IDA                                         318      844       756      736              G                    B
22350                756
Totaldebtservice                             1.060    5,823    16,419   18,672                                      D
IBRD                                          2      384      1,875    2,249                                    6750
IDA                                           2       12        26        26
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              69      136       249
Official creditors                          515      980      1,101                                               E
Prvate creditors                          1,749      154      2,428        .                                    31221
Foreign direct investment                   476      310      4,348                     F
Portfolio equity                              0        0      4,873                   34251
World Bank program
Commitments                                 311    1,068      1,312    1,194      A-IBRD                      E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               164      777      1,045      905      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0      133       975    1,429       C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   164      644        69      -523
Interest payments                             3      262       926       846
Net transfers                               160      382       -857   -1,370
Development Economics. 1996 extemal debt and resource flows data are staff estimates (preliminary).                  8/15197
Note: Govemment finance and trade fiscal year (April to March).



MAP SECTION






o    PAPUA NEW GUINEA
0~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             U~~~~~~~~~~~P
Z:84-2°t~~ .OM   A mt ,                               P
_ _   <    <    43 _                                    0
*                  U   ¢Xt>\2
/Z5  1,'                               ' -@         5'  ,0
LU       H                             
z   s                          '°aS                           f
V~~~  -                        2P- 
. -                  a tg7^2$-aofi>$$g$Z3|zE 



IMAGING
Report No.:P      17106  IND
Type:,     A



