Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4244 IND
Loan Agreement
(Information Infrastructure Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 15, 1997 
LOAN NUMBER 4244 IND
 LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated Decemebr 15, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the  financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
Page  2
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower  to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used in this Agreement; 
(a)
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto;  
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a small or medium-scale enterprise, including 
cooperatives, established and operating in the territory of the Borrower, whose equity 
is wholly privately owned, and whose assets are less than 5,000,000 Rupiah, and, if 
applicable, annual sales amount to 2,500,000 Rupiah; 
(c)
“BPPT” means the Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology 
of the Borrower established by the Borrower and operating pursuant to the provisions 
of the Borrower’s Decree No. 47/1991 of October 8, 1991, and any successor thereto; 
(d)
“CPMIU” means the coordinating project management implementation unit 
established within MTPT’s planning bureau office, pursuant to the provisions of 
Ministerial Regulation No. SK/112/OT.001/SEKJ-PPT-97 of October 23, 1997, and 
maintained pursuant to the provisions of  Part A.1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(e) 
“DGCPT” means the Directorate General of Copyrights, Patents and 
Trademarks established within the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, and any successor 
thereto; 
(f)
“DG Tourism” means the Directorate General of Tourism established within 
MTPT, and any successor thereto;  
(g)
“ETIS” means  the Borrower’s Electronic Tourism Information System 
established and operating pursuant to the provisions of an agreement entered into 
between DG Tourism and a group of private sector operators within the tourism industry 
(NTWG-PS), dated July 11, 1997; 
(h)
“Executing Agency” and “MTPT” mean the Ministry of Tourism, Posts and 
Telecommunications of the Borrower, and any successor thereto; 
(i)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing 
April 1 and ending March 31; 
(j)
“IPR” means Intellectual Property Rights; 
(k)
“IPR Group” means the working group established by the Borrower within 
SEKNEG, and with representation of DGCPT, to promote and coordinate the development 
and protection of IPR pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Presidential Decree 
(KEPRES) No. 34/86 of July 30, 1986;
(l)
“IPTEKnet” means the Borrower’s Science and Technology Network 
established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Decree No. 
Page  3
SK/183/KA/BPPT/IV/1997 of April 2, 1997; 
(m)
“IPTEKnet Steering Committee” means the committee responsible for the 
oversight of the IPTEKnet, established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the 
Borrower’s Decree No. SK/183/KA/BPPT/IV/1997 of April 2, 1997; 
(n)
“IT Framework” means the Borrower’s framework and strategy for the 
development of National Information Systems established by the Borrower’s  Decree No. 
KEP/905/KET/8/1997 of August 27, 1997; 
(o)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto; 
(p)
“MOIT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry and Trade, and any 
successor thereto; 
(q)
“NUSANTARA 21” or “N21” means the Borrower’s strategic plan aimed at 
developing national information infrastructure and systems pursuant to the provisions 
of the National Development Plans (REPELITA), and implemented pursuant to the 
provisions of Presidential Decree No.30/1997 of April 7, 1997;
(r)
“N21SC Secretariat” means the secretariat to be established and 
maintained by the Borrower within MTPT pursuant to the provisions of Part A.1 (g) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
(s)
“National Steering Committee” means the national steering committee for 
information technology application established by the Borrower pursuant to Ministerial  
Decree No. SK85/OT.001/SEKJ-PPT-96 of July 15, 1996, and maintained in accordance with 
the provisions of  Part A.1 (e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(t)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank to measure the achievement of the objectives of the Project as set forth 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such indicators may be amended from time to time 
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
(u)
“PMIU” means the project implementation units established within (i) 
BAPPENAS, pursuant to the provisions of Ministerial Decree No. KEP, 905/KET/8/1997 of 
August 27, 1997, (ii) BPPT, pursuant to the provisions of Ministerial Decree No. 
SK/259/KA/BPPT/IV/1997 of April 17, 1997, (iii) DGCPT/SEKNEG, pursuant to Keputusan 
Menteri Sekretaria Negara Selaku Keua Konsep of November, 1997, and (iv) MTPT, 
pursuant to the provisions of Ministerial Regulations No. SK/4/KU.603/SEKJEN/PPT-97 of 
April 1, 1997 and No. SK.22/OT.001/PPT-97 of April 14, 1997, and maintained pursuant 
to the provisions of Part A.1(d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and “PMIU” means any 
of the project management implementation units;
(v)
“Project Committees” means the technical committees to be established and 
maintained within BAPPENAS, BPPT, DGCPT, MOIT, MTPT, and SEKNEG pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A.1 (h) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and the term “Project 
Committee” means any of the project committees; 
(w)
“Rupiah” and “Rp” mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(x)
“SEKNEG” means Sekretariat Negara, the Borrower’s State Secretariat and 
any successor thereto; 
(y)
“SIMRENAS” means the national development planning information system of 
the Borrower approved by the Borrower’s Decree No.     KEP/905/KET/8/1997 of August 
27, 1997; 
(z)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(aa)
“Sub-projects” means the specific development investment projects to be 
carried out by the Beneficiaries under Part D.1 (a) of the Project, and “Sub-project” 
means any of the Sub-projects; 
(bb)
“TATP Implementation Manual” means the manual describing operational 
Page  4
guidelines and technical, financial, administrative and economic criteria for the 
selection and approval of Sub-projects to be approved by the Borrower, through MOIT, 
for the purposes of providing TATP Grants to Beneficiaries for the carrying out of 
such Sub-projects;
(cc)
“TATP Management Contract” means the contract to be entered into between 
MOIT and a management consulting firm pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(dd)
“TATP Grant” means a grant in Rupiah or in Dollars made or proposed to be 
made by the Borrower, through MOIT, partly out of the proceeds of the Loan to a 
Beneficiary to assist in financing a portion of the cost of a Sub-project, pursuant to 
the provisions of Part C.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
(ee)
“TAT Program” or “TATP” means the program prepared by the Borrower, 
through MOIT, as set forth in Part D of the Project, and in the TATP Implementation 
Manual, and as such Program may be amended from time to time in agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
thirty-four million five hundred thousand dollars ($34,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project (other than Part D.1 (a) of the 
Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals 
made for Grants under Part D.1 (a) of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of 
services required for a Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan 
Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, in the case of a state 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  5
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (i) Part A.1 (a) of the Project through MTPT, in close coordination with SEKNEG; 
(ii) Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project through SEKNEG; (iii) Part A.4 of the Project 
through DGCPT; (iv) Parts A.5 and C.1 of the Project through MTPT; (v) Part A.6 of the 
Project through BAPPENAS; (vi) Part B of the Project through BPPT; (vii) Part C.2 of 
the Project through DG Tourism; (viii) Part D of the Project through MOIT; and (ix) 
Part E of the Project through the CPMIU and the PMIUs; all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project objectives; and  
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, including those for the Special Account, 
for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;  
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such Year, 
the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
Page  6
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such Fiscal Year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address: 
Telex:
45799 DJMLN-IA44319 
DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Page  7
By /s/ Budiman Darmosutanto 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino 
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
TABLE WAS DONE IN COLUMN FORMAT
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods and services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods and services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “Project Management” means Project-related expenditures incurred 
by: (i) the CPMIU; (ii) the PMIU within BPPT; and (iii) MOIT, for the preparation of 
the TAT Program pursuant to the provisions of Part D.1 (b) of the Project, including 
advisory services, administrative costs, travel, consumables, office supplies, and 
per-diem and honoraria for staff, but excluding salaries; and 
(d)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by 
BPPT for the supply of telecommunications services to IPTEKnet, under Part B.1 of the 
Project, to access on-line technology information procured under contractual 
arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of :
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
in respect of Category (1) (a) unless the Bank has received an action 
plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the strengthening of DGCPT in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B.3 (a) of Schedule 5; and
(c)
in respect of Category (4) unless the TATP Management Contract shall have 
been entered into pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) local workshops and overseas 
study-tours; (b) TATP Grants;  (c) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each; (d) incremental operating costs; (e) Project Management; and (f) 
services under contracts for the employment of (i) consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each, and (ii) individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
Page  8
to  the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in enhancing private 
sector participation in the provision of information technology, post and tourism 
services through the removal of existing barriers to said participation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improving the Legal and Regulatory Framework
1.
Strengthening the Borrower’s enabling legal and regulatory framework, including 
the preparation of laws and regulations and the carrying out of policy studies in the 
areas of:
(a)
examination, registration, administration and protection of IPR, 
specifically with regard to information technology including integrated circuits, 
industrial designs, undisclosed information, trade secrets and data transmission; and
(b)
electronic commerce, software competitiveness, and data security and 
encryption. 
2.
Strengthening the skills of staff of the Borrower responsible for the 
development and implementation of the legal and regulatory framework under Part A.1 
above, through the development of IPR curricula and the provision of training, 
including in-country workshops. 
3.
Strengthening the strategic policy capabilities of the Borrower for the 
coordination of IPR through the provision of advisory services to SEKNEG.
4.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of DGCPT to: (a) register and manage 
IPR and establish common IPR data sharing with relevant government agencies, through 
the provision of advisory services and acquisition of automation and office equipment; 
and (b) design a long-term institutional development action plan, through the 
provision of advisory services. 
5.
Strengthening the capabilities of the N21SC Secretariat to manage and implement 
the Borrower’s national information infrastructure program, through the provision of 
advisory services and office facilities.
6.
Strengthening the institutional capabilities of BAPPENAS by:
(a)
improving the management of information technology within the public 
sector and designing and implementing technical guidelines to develop national 
information systems (IT Framework), through the provision of advisory services; and
(b)
improving the integration of development planning information systems 
within the public sector, through the carrying out of a pilot project, including the 
provision of equipment, aimed at testing the standardization and sharing of common 
planning data among public sector agencies (SIMRENAS).
Part B:
Expanding the Science and Technology Network
1.
Improving access to on-line technology information available to IPTEKnet users 
through:
(a)
the provision of regional nodes and networks; and
(b)
the design and use of databases. 
2.
Strengthening the capabilities of IPTEKnet staff, including the provision of 
practical professional training, through the implementation of a twinning arrangement 
Page  9
with an international network provider. 3.
Strengthening the capabilities of users 
and potential users of on-line scientific and technical information, through the 
provision of training and awareness workshops.
Part C:
Expanding Communications and Information Networks 
1.
Enhancing private sector participation in the provision of postal services, 
through the provision of legal advisory services to review the Borrower’s postal legal 
and regulatory framework and prepare laws and regulations.
2.
Improving the institutional capabilities of DG Tourism to develop a regional 
electronic tourism information system (ETIS) through:
(a)
the development of a business model for ETIS, through the provision of 
advisory services; and
(b)
the improvement of regional access to telecommunication and 
information-related services, through the design and implementation of pilot projects.
Part D:
Technical Assistance and Training Program
1.
Undertaking a program to strengthen the development, dissemination and adoption 
of appropriate information technology practices by Beneficiaries through:
(a)
the provision of TATP Grants to Beneficiaries to finance the carrying out 
of information technology investment projects; and
(b)
the improvement of public awareness of the TAT Program including the 
provision of advisory services and the carrying out of studies. 2. Strengthening of 
MOIT’s institutional capabilities to administer the TAT Program, including the 
provision of management advisory services.
Part E:
Project Management
Strengthening of Project management capabilities of CPMIU and the PMIUs, through 
the provision of advisory services, office equipment and computers.
*          *            *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
Page  10
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); and 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in 
respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings 
or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include 
such Disbursed Amount for such Interest 
Period; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to 
fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date 
for such Disbursed Amount; as reasonably determined by the 
Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
Page  11
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its Borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall 
be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after August, 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising
Page  12
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost ten 
million dollars ($10,000,000) equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one million two hundred thousand 
dollars ($1,200,000) equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of two 
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the carrying out of training and 
studies under Part D of the Project, estimated to cost less than two hundred thousand 
dollars ($200,000) equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for expanding the IPTEKnet under Parts B.1 (b), B.2 and B.3 of the 
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  13
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for Parts A.3 and A.6 (a) of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Sub-projects under Part D.1 (a) 
of the Project and estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent may be procured in 
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
Part A:
Implementing Arrangements 
1.
Project Implementation and Coordination
(a)
MTPT shall be  the  Executing  Agency  and  shall  be  responsible for: 
(i) overseeing the overall progress of Project implementation; (ii) ensuring 
coordination of Project activities undertaken by BAPPENAS, BPPT, DGCPT, MOIT, MTPT and 
SEKNEG (the Implementing Agencies); and (iii) carrying out overall technical 
supervision and management of Project activities.
(b)
In discharging the above-described responsibilities, MTPT shall establish 
and, thereafter, maintain until the completion of the Project, within its Planning 
Bureau Office, a coordinating project management implementation unit (CPMIU).  The 
CPMIU shall be assigned with such functions, powers, funds and qualified and 
experienced staff as shall be required to enable the CPMIU to undertake overall 
coordination of the Project.
(c) 
The CPMIU shall be responsible for: (i) overall Project coordination and 
administration among Implementing Agencies; (ii) monitoring progress in Project 
implementation; (iii) ensuring timely reporting and the carrying out of annual and 
mid-term Project implementation reviews; and (iv) coordinating with the Implementing 
Page  14
Agencies compliance with all accounting and financial auditing requirements under this 
Agreement.
(d)
(i)
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain 
until the completion of the Project, within each of 
BAPPENAS, BPPT, DGCPT/SEKNEG and MTPT, a PMIU assigned with 
such 
functions, powers, funds and qualified and experienced 
staff as 
shall be required to enable each PMIU to undertake 
the day-to-day 
implementation of the Project.
(ii)
The key staff of each PMIU shall include a: (A) Project 
manager (PIMPRO); and (B) treasurer.
(e)
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain a 
steering committee (National Steering Committee), chaired by the Secretary General of 
MTPT and comprising designated representatives of the public and private sectors, and 
in accordance with terms of reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank.  
(f)
The National Steering Committee shall be responsible for :
(i)
designing, planning and overseeing the implementation of 
training activities and technical assistance financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Loan;
(ii)
disseminating to the public and other stakeholders the 
results and findings of the activities referred to in 
subparagraph (i) above; and
(iii)
making policy recommendations and submitting to MTPT 
proposals for the strengthening of the legal and regulatory 
frameworks referred to under Parts A.1 and C.1 of the 
Project.
(g)
The Chairman of the National Steering Committee shall, by not later than 
March 31, 1998, establish within MTPT and, thereafter, maintain until the completion 
of the Project, a secretariat staffed by qualified and experienced staff in adequate 
numbers and with functions acceptable to the Bank, as follows: (i) a Project Director; 
and (ii) other professional and technical staff to be drawn, if necessary, from the 
Planning Bureau Office of MTPT. 
(h)
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter, maintain until the 
completion of the Project, the following: (i) IPTEKnet Steering Committee within BPPT; 
(ii) Supervisory Committee and Technical Committee within MOIT; (iii) IT Framework  
and SIMRENAS Steering Committee and Implementation Team within BAPPENAS; (iv) Steering 
Committee within SEKNEG; and (v) Steering Committee within DGCPT, all with such 
functions, powers, funds and qualified and experienced staff as shall be required to 
enable such Committees to undertake project coordination and technical supervision of 
Project activities.
Part B:
Implementation Actions
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
the training under Parts A. 2, B. 2, and B. 3 of the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with programs and implementation timetables acceptable to 
the Bank; and
(b)
qualified candidates are selected to receive overseas training financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to standard procedures established by the 
Borrower’s Overseas Training Organization, including the implementation of bonding 
requirements, if applicable.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the studies under Parts A.1 and D.1 (b) of the Project in 
accordance with terms of reference and implementation timetables acceptable to the 
Bank, furnish to the Bank for comments, not later than four months after the 
Page  15
completion of each such study, the recommendations of said study;
(b)
promptly thereafter prepare an action plan taking into account the 
comments of the Bank on the recommendations of said study; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out such action plan in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank.
3.
For the purposes of Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through DGCPT:
(a)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank for comments, an action plan for the strengthening of IPR registration and 
management and the establishment of common IPR data sharing including a detailed 
description of equipment needs; and
(b)
promptly thereafter, carry out said action plan in accordance with an 
implementation timetable acceptable to the Bank, taking into account the Bank’s 
comments on the action plan. 
4.
For the purposes of Part A.6 (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later 
than December 31, 2001, through BAPPENAS, carry out the SIMRENAS pilot project 
approved by the Bank, in accordance with procedures and technical guidelines issued by 
BAPPENAS and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
5.
For the purposes of Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
December 31, 1999 through DG Tourism, carry out the ETIS pilot projects approved by 
the Bank, in accordance with procedures and technical guidelines issued by DG Tourism 
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than April 30, 2000, prepare and furnish to the Bank for 
comments, the terms of reference for the carrying out of a technical audit of Project 
implementation;
(b)
not later than October 31, 2000, cause said technical audit to be carried 
out in accordance with said terms of reference as shall have been agreed with the 
Bank; and
(c)
promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank for comments, a copy of such 
technical audit. 
7.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
8.
The Borrower shall, through MTPT:
(a)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30 of each year, until the completion of the Project, 
a  consolidated report including (i) the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to Section 7 of this Schedule on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project during the twelve-month period preceding the date 
of said report; and (ii) a description of Project activities proposed for the next 
Fiscal Year and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following the date of such report;
(b)
review with the Bank, by November 30 of each year, until the completion 
of the Project, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section furnished during said year,  and  carry  out, an 
annual Project review to, inter alia: (i) evaluate progress achieved by the Borrower 
in carrying out the Project; (ii) review progress in preparing laws and regulations 
under Parts A.1 and C.1 of the Project; (iii) evaluate the implementation of the 
expansion of the IPTEKnet under Part B of the Project; (iv) assess progress in the 
carrying out of the TAT Program under Part D of the Project; (v) assess progress 
Page  16
achieved by DGCPT in implementing the action plan under Part A.4 (a) of the Project; 
(vi) assess the level of counterpart funding provided by the Borrower for the timely 
implementation of the Project activities during the previous Fiscal Year and review 
the proposed allocations for the upcoming Fiscal Year; (vii) assess progress in 
achieving the Performance Indicators, and propose  adjustments,  if  necessary, to 
such Performance Indicators; (ix) review and update the scope of the Project detailed 
under Schedule 2 to this Agreement with a view to reflecting developments in the 
information technology sector; (viii) identify future information infrastructure 
development projects; and (ix) identify any current implementation issues and propose 
solutions to resolve such issues;
(c)
at the third annual review, carry out a comprehensive mid-term assessment 
of Project implementation, including progress in the following areas: 
(i)
legal and regulatory work under Parts A.1 and C.1 of the 
Project;
(ii)
implementation of the pilot projects under Parts A.6 (b) 
and C.2 (b) of the Project;
(iii)
implementation of the policy studies under Part A. 1 of the 
Project;
(iv)
(A) the level of contributions to the IPTEKnet provided by 
private organizations universities and research and 
development centers with a view to improving the 
self-sufficiency operation of IPTEKnet; (B) the service 
levels of the 
central network and regional nodes; (C) the 
databases and other 
services tailored to IPTEKnet users of 
on-line scientific and technical 
information; (D) the 
degree of participation of regional nodes in 
the 
development of IPTEKnet; and (E) the amount of parallel 
investment infrastructure connected and dedicated to 
IPTEKnet by the regional nodes; and
(v)
implementation of the institutional development action plan 
prepared by DGCPT for the strengthening of its 
institutional capacity under Part A.4 (b) of the Project; 
and 
(d) 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the reviews carried out pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of 
this Section, and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Part C:
TAT Program
1.
For the purposes of Part D.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through MOIT, 
enter into a contract with a management consulting firm, pursuant to the provisions of 
Part B of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to, inter alia: (a) carry out 
day-to-day operations of the TAT Program; and (b) maintain a register database of 
qualified and experienced consultants eligible to provide services under such Program.
2.
The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, each TATP 
Grant shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract 
with each of the Beneficiaries or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including the following:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound information technology, technical, 
financial and managerial standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) consultants’ services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured by a Beneficiary in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C. 3 of Section II of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such 
services shall be used by a Beneficiary exclusively in the carrying out of its 
Sub-project;
(c)
require the Beneficiary to maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
Page  17
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Sub-project, as the case may be, and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, any relevant records and documents;
(e)
require that: (i) the Beneficiary, shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary, and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; 
and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary, to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under 
its contract with the Borrower.
3.
Each TATP Grant under Part D.1 (a) of the Project shall be made by the Borrower 
only:
(a)
to a Beneficiary which shall have established, to the satisfaction of the 
Borrower, acting through MOIT, on the basis of criteria and procedures acceptable to 
the Bank, that said Beneficiary has (i) the organization, management, staffing and 
other resources required for the efficient carrying out of the Sub-project, and (ii) 
has prepared an acceptable plan for the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(b)
for a Sub-project which is determined by the Borrower, acting through 
MOIT, on the basis of the operational guidelines set forth in the TATP Implementation 
Manual (i) to be technically feasible and cost-effective, and (ii) to have been 
designed in accordance with appropriate information technology standards; and
(c)
for an amount not exceeding seventy percent (70%) of the total cost of 
the Sub-project for which such TATP Grant is provided (excluding all taxes applicable 
in the territory of the Borrower, which taxes shall be borne by the Borrower).
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  18
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
Page  19
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
