                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30968

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-42440)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$34.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                                    TO

                                   THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                FOR THE

                  INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                           December 16, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 30, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
                                    Rp. 100 = US$ 0.010616
                                  US$ 1.00 = Rp. 9420

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1   December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS      National Development Planning Agency
BPPT          Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CPMIU         Coordinating Project Management Implementation Unit
DGCPT         Directorate General of Copyrights, Patents and Trademarks
DG Tourism    Directorate General of Tourism
ETIS          Electronic Tourism Information System
FY            Fiscal Year of the Borrower
G2B           Government to Business
G2C           Government to Citizen
G2G           Government to Government
GOI           Government of Indonesia
GSI           Government Secured Intranet
IFC           Interntional Finance Corporation
IGASIS        Intergovermental Access to Shared Information System
IIDP          Information Infrastructure Development Project
IP            Intellectual Property
IPR           Intellectual Property Rights
IPTEKnet      Science and Technology Network of BPPT
ISP           Internet Service Provider
IT            Information Technology
ITA           Information Technology Agreement (WTO)
ITU           International Telecommunications Union (UN)
KPI           Key Performance Indicators
MCI           Ministry of Communication and Information
MOJHR         Ministry of Justice and Human Rights
MOIT          Ministry of Industry and Trade
MTAC          Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture
MTPT          Ministry of Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications
NITF          Framework and Strategy for National Information Systems Development
NUSANTARA-21  Action Plan to provide voice and multimedia data communications to capital cities
N21 SC        NUSANTARA 21 Steering Committee
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PMIU          Project Management Implementation Unit
PT Telkom     PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia
REPELITA VI   Sixth Five-Year Development Plan
S&T           Science and Technology

SEKNEG      State Secretariat (Sekretariat Negara)
SIMRENAS    National Development Planning Information System
SME         Small and Medium Enterprise
TA          Technical Assistance
TATP        Technical Assistance and Training Program
TKTI        Tim Koordinasi Telematkia Indonesia
TRIPS       Agreement on Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (WTO)
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
VoIP        Voice over Internet Protocol
WARTEL      Warung Telekomunikasi (Independently operated public telecommunications
            outlet)
WB          World Bank
WTO         World Trade Organization

                         Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                      Country Director       Andrew Steer
                        Sector Manager       Pierre Guislain
                     Task Team Leader        Robert Schware

                                         INDONESIA
                       Information Infrastructure Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P048715                                                  Project Name: ID: Information Infrastructure
                                                                     Development Project
Team Leader: Robert Schware                                          TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 16, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ID: Information Infrastructure Development               L/C/TF Number: SCL-42440
                            Project
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (37%); Telecommunications
                            (34%); Micro- and SME finance (26%); Other industry (3%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Technology
                            diffusion (P); Regulation and competition policy (S); Legal
                            institutions for a market economy (S); Personal and property rights
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/12/1997                                     Effective: 12/15/1997                12/15/1997
     Appraisal: 05/08/1997                                         MTR: 12/26/2000                  12/22/2000
      Approval: 11/18/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA/MINISTRY OF TOURISM; REPUBLIC OF
                                           INDONESIA/ART AND CULTURE
                      Other Partners:      n.a.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Dennis De Tray
Sector Manager:                 Pierre A. Guislain                             Hoon Mok Chung
Team Leader at ICR:             Robert Schware                                 Robert Schware
ICR Primary Author:             Michel Maechler


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Quality of supervision assessment was conducted on 10/24/2002, and was given an overall rating of

"Satisfactory".
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1    In 1997, Indonesia lagged far behind comparator countries in the development of its information
infrastructure The terms information infrastructure and informatics refer to a broad range of technologies
that transmit, store, and manipulate information electronically, generally in a digital format. This
information can take the form of a human voice (conventional telephony), a scanned image, video, or
computer data. Services and products that rely on the information infrastructure include the networked PC,
the cellular phone, Internet services, paging, electronic commerce, and direct broadcast digital TV. A
40-nation study by ITU ranked Indonesia below all countries except India. Similarly, Indonesian industry
was also behind comparator countries in supplying a range of Information Technology (IT) products and
services, especially to the fast-growing markets of the region. Finally, many of Indonesia's East Asian
neighbors (Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Malaysia) had already devoted considerable
resources to formulating national IT policies, and developing human and organizational potential for the
utilization of IT, leaving Indonesia with a high risk of being left further behind. The project aimed at
addressing three main issues to reduce this risk and to accelerate change in the IT sector: (a) legal and
regulatory impediments for the efficient protection of the intellectual property rights regime; (b) barriers to
entry in IT services; and (c) limited capabilities of SMEs to utilize IT.

3.1.2    The main objective of the project was to assist the GOI in enhancing private sector participation in
the provision of IT, post and tourism services through the removal of barriers of entry. A more conducive
environment was expected to facilitate the modernization and growth of IT and communication services,
through: (a) the formulation of draft legislation protecting software, data and integrated circuits; and (b)
increased private sector participation in new value-added services in information technology, post and
tourism services. The project was requested by the GOI following five previous World Bank projects
promoting competition in the provision of telecommunications services.

3.1.3    The project objectives were designed to support the 1997 Bank's country assistance strategy
(CAS) for Indonesia, which called for enhancing private sector involvement in infrastructure to promote a
shift from the current public sector approach for infrastructure to greater reliance on the private sector to
deliver infrastructure services. Further, the activities of the project also supported the CAS objectives of:
(a) improving infrastructure services; (b) improving the framework for private-public interaction; (c) legal
and institutional development; (d) sustaining high economic growth with equity; and (e) attaining more
balanced regional development.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1    The project was designed to achieve its objectives through five components: (a) a legal and
regulatory component of advisory services, training and equipment for the Ministry of Tourism, Post and
Telecommunications (MTPT) and institutional development for the Directorate General of Copyrights,
Patents and Trademarks (DGCPT), Ministry of Justice and Human Rights (MOJHR), as well as advisory
services to Bappenas to develop the National IT Framework; (b) a network expansion component in the
form of network management and installation, development of value added services, training and awareness
raising and organizational development for the Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology
(BPPT) National Science and Technology Network--called IPTEKnet; (c) a communication and
information network expansion component in the form of advisory services to promote competition in the



                                                       - 2 -

postal sector for the Directorate General of Post, and the development of a pilot Electronic Tourist
Information System for the Directorate of Tourism, both within MTPT; (d) a technical assistance and
training program (TATP) component to strengthen the competitiveness of the private sector in the IT
Industry, for the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOIT); and (e) a project management component in the
form of advisory services and equipment for the project management and implementation units (CPMIU
and PMIUs).

3.3.2    The legal and regulatory component had two sub-components:

   i.  Development of Legal and Regulatory Environment: the purpose of this first sub-component was to
       establish a permanent policy making capability. It included support and capacity building involving:
       (a) legal and advisory services to the State Secretariat (SEKNEG), which formerly was responsible
       for intellectual property laws; (b) policy analysis by the NUSNTARA 21 Steering Committee
       (N21SC) to strengthen the regulatory framework; (c) communications by N21SC on critical issues
                 1


       and findings of its policy analyses; (d) regulatory reform discussions and white papers by N21SC,
       with the cooperation of relevant ministries; (e) assistance in IPR curricula development; (f)
       strengthening the services capacity of DGCPT to provide access and develop adequate operations of
       IPR administration; (g) managing the N21SC; and (h) aligning the DGCPT with the needs of the
       GOI and private sector. (Following Inpres No. 6-2001, the N21SC became the Tim Koordinasi
       Telematika Indonesia (TKTI) with responsibilities to examine and discuss major ICT initiatives that
       impact nationally or across a number of agencies).

   ii. Framework for IT Investment and an Information System for National Development Planning: the
       purpose of this component was to support the policy guidelines of REPELITA VI that aimed at: (a)
       improving GOI's management of IT investments by implementing a comprehensive set of guidelines,
       standards, and criteria for evaluating IT investment proposals and managing IT projects (referred to
       as the "IT Framework"); and (b) implementing a national development planning information system
       pilot ("SIMRENAS") as a demonstration of the benefits of the IT Framework approach.


3.3.3    The network expansion component aimed at expanding an existing public wide-area
network--IPTEKnet--from its proof-of-concept stage to a more advanced operational stage, in order to
allow the Indonesian S&T and academic community to communicate with colleagues nationally and
throughout the world. This project component included the following elements: (a) a twinning partnership
to transfer management practices and improve business development; (b) developing value added services
essential if IPTEKnet was to develop a sufficient user base and justify charging fees for its services; (c)
awareness and user development, critical to developing demand for IPTEKnet and the on-line services it
provides; and (d) organizational development necessary to transform IPTEKnet into a modern information
technology based service organization.

3.3.4    The communication and information network expansion included two sub-components:
   i.  Postal Activities: the objective of this activity was to provide legal advisory services to review GOI's
       postal legal and regulatory framework and prepare new laws and regulations. It aimed at
       establishing a legal and regulatory regime to: (a) progressively liberalize the postal market; (b) put in
       place a clear, unambiguous regulatory mechanism for postal services; and (c) lower entry barriers
       and promote private sector development within the sector.
   ii. Electronic Tourist Information System (ETIS): this sub-component was intended to support growth
       in the tourism sector through the development of an integrated electronic tourism information system
       offering services such as electronic marketing, electronic commerce, and electronic transactions. It
       also aimed at promoting private sector participation in the provision of tourist services and


                                                       - 3 -

      strengthening the institutional capability in the Directorate General for Tourism of MTPT. These
      were to be accomplished by: (a) developing a feasible business model for on-line tourist information;
      (b) designing and implementing a pilot project; and (c) implementing workshops to demonstrate the
      successful lessons learned in the pilot.

3.3.5   The Technical Assistance and Training Program (TATP) component aimed at strengthening the
competitiveness of Indonesia's developing information technology sector, as well as sectors dependent on
information technology. This component was designed to establish a program to improve private sector
access to applications, maintenance, network management services, new information technologies, and
electronic commerce. Program features included: (a) procurement of services from a Management
Contractor to administer the program; (b) promotion of the program in order to generate a flow of
applications to the TATP; (c) evaluation and financing of proposals; and (d) monitoring impact of the
program.

3.3.6   The project management component aimed at strengthening the project management and
implementation units (CPMIU and PMIUs) through the provision of advisory services, office equipment,
and computers.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1   With the exception of component (b) Network expansion for IPTEKnet, the objectives set for each
component were not revised.

3.4.2   The revision of objective made for this component resulted from a change in IPTEKnet's mandate
from providing Internet connectivity to Indonesia's public institutions through a physical "regional nodes"
to a more focused entity that operates and maintains the Government Secured Intranet and Data
Management Center. The original PAD indicators for the number of regional nodes connected to IPTEKnet
was no longer in keeping with the business plan development financed under the project.

3.4.3   The Indonesian financial crisis resulted in a few changes to the design and scope of project
components. In September 1998, the first project amendment reduced the loan amount from US$ 34.5 to
US$ 26 million, a cumulative loan reduction of US$ 8.5 million. In May 1999, the second amendment
changed GOI's portion from 20% to 0%. Both the 1997 economic crisis and the domestic political
disturbances in the late 1990's exacerbated delays in project implementation and resulted in a
postponement of the closing date to June 30, 2004. Loan restructuring occurred together with all other
IBRD projects in response to GOI's call for portfolio restructuring across the board. In addition to creating
problems in budgeting and counterpart funding, the crisis led to a period of inactivity within the country in
various sectors, which slowed down significantly growth in IT services and also created a new challenge to
technology institutions like BPPT/IPTEKnet to reassess their performance indicators and business plans.
No activities were cut out as a result of the reduction of the loan amount, but most were scaled back.

3.4.4   With the exception of components (c) a communication and information network expansion
component and (e) a project management component, the components' design was not significantly
revised. Modifications in the design of components (c) and (e) were a result of a Ministerial reorganization
in which the project's activities under MTPT were shifted to a new entity, the Ministry of Tourism, Arts,
and Culture (MTAC), but with the same central project implementation team, and cost reductions to
originally estimated subcomponents.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1   On October 24, 2002, the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessed the project design at



                                                      - 4 -

entry as sound. The project was designed taking into account the lessons learned from previous
telecommunication projects in Indonesia. The potential risks identified for the project fell into three
categories: (a) GOI commitment to sectoral agreements; (b) shortfall in the participating entities'
institutional capacity to implement the project; and (c) miscalculation of demand or supply for services.
GOI commitments to sectoral agreements (WTO IT, TRIPS, Berne Convention) were monitored during
project implementation. Shortfalls in institutional capacity were minimized by: (a) the leadership role of
MTPT in coordinating implementation entities through the N21SC adequately supported under the project;
and (b) close monitoring of procurement activities. Miscalculations of demand for services were minimized
by negotiating bandwidth cost reductions with PT Telkom, as well as by using conservative estimates in
IPTEKnet business plan. Further, early and active promotion in the project for TA and training contracts
under TATP were successfully organized.

3.5.2    The QAG Panel recognized that, at the onset of the project formulation, it may not have been
possible to quantify all the benefits of the activities supported under the project. It recommended the task
team focus more of its remaining supervision efforts on assessing impact of the various components. Where
this could realistically be achieved within the resources of the project's activities, impact assessments were
conducted such as for the TATP. In retrospect, arrangements with research institutions from both Indonesia
and countries with different levels of information infrastructure attainments would have provided the
project an opportunity to systematically assess sector-wide achievements quantitatively and qualitatively.
A set of evaluation and impact indicators should have been a vital part of the project design and
implementation in order for both the Bank and Government to evaluate the project's impact, as well as to
compare achievements at the regional level. This project was one of the first of its kind in what is now
called e-Development in the Bank, and the Bank lacked experienced in monitoring such projects.
Monitoring and evaluating ICT policy in general and sectoral applications and usage represents a major
challenge for countries, which is why the Bank recently developed the "e-Strategies: Monitoring and
Evaluation Toolkit," INF/GICT, November 2004.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    Economic and sector development: Indonesia grew at a rate of 7.1% between 1985 and 1995, and
attained real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth of 7.8% in 1996. The situation shifted dramatically
following the onset of the financial crisis in July 1997. GDP growth fell to a negative 13.1% in 1998, and
varied between 3.4% and 4.9% between 2000 and 2003. In parallel to a weakened economy, national unrest
and terrorist activities (in 2000, 2002, 2003 and 2004) produced a stark pressure on private sector
participation and foreign direct investments, which went from $ 33 billion in 1997 each, to less than $5
billion and $ 3 billion respectively, at end of 2002.

The tourism sector has been particularly impacted, with a decrease in the number of international tourism
arrivals from 5.2 million arrivals in 1997, to a low 4.6 million in 1998 and recovering to 5 million in 2002.
These numbers translated, in conjunction with a weaker Rupiah, in a significant decrease in revenue from $
6.3 billion in 1996, to $ 4.3 billion.

In the ICT sector, steady increases were noted in key ICT indicators. Increase in penetration rates above
some of the leading neighbors have been realized for all key indicators except for PC penetration.
Telephone mainlines penetration increased by 73 % to 36.5 per 1000 inhabitants in 2002, mobile phones
penetration increased by 971% to 55.2 per 1000 inhabitants, and internet users increased by 6,283%. These
increases, although starting from a low base, illustrate results from reform and development activities in the
sector. While direct impacts of each component under this project are complex to demonstrate, they have
indirectly contributed to a growing diffusion trend. In this particular context, the project achieved mixed



                                                       - 5 -

results.

  Selected ICT indicators         Population Mainlines            Mobile  Internet      Internet     Personal
         (at end 2002)                                                     users         Hosts      Computers
 Indonesia      Increase            108.32%       172.99%       1971.43% 6283.33%       638.92%      180.30%
               per 1000                 -           36.5          55.2      37.7          0.29           11.9
              people
Hong Kong Increase                  105.90%       105.30%        445.42% 922.96%        809.88%      226.27%
               per 1000                 -           564.7         942.5    430.1          58.66          422
              people
   Korea        Increase            105.24%       111.76%        958.39% 3385.89%       556.51%      395.31%
               per 1000                 -           488.6         679.5    551.9          8.55         555.8
              people
 Malaysia       Increase            117.25%       106.91%        524.79% 3761.18%       342.40%      408.91%
               per 1000                 -           190.4         376.8    319.7          3.55         146.8
              people
 Singapore Increase                 115.80%       108.71%        677.68% 617.38%       1171.08%      240.34%
               per 1000                 -           462.9         795.6    504.4          81.26          622
              people
Source: World Development Indictors database, ITU, own calculation


4.1.2    Aim of the project: The project aimed at addressing three main issues to enhance private sector
participation in provision of IT, post and tourism services: (a) addressing legal and regulatory impediments
for the efficient protection of intellectual property rights; (b) removing barriers to entry in IT, post and
tourism services; and (c) increasing capabilities of SMEs to utilize IT.

4.1.3    Objective 1: formulation of draft legislation protecting software, data and integrated circuit.
This legislation was passed and represented a major reform in Indonesia's IPR regime. Although the IP
laws impose criminal penalties on infringers, there needs to be more focused effort to enforce these laws
against infringers. The attempts under the project to improve copyright protection to software and address
violations lacked a significant corresponding enforcement mechanism. During the project the Supreme
Court established a special Intellectual Property Protection Judicial Council to educate the judiciary on IP
issues and assist in the backlog clearing of piracy cases. There is a need to increase such measures and
undertake them on a continuing basis. Effective implementation and enforcement of laws is still a problem
due to weak institutional infrastructure and capability.

4.1.4    Objective 2: increase private sector participation in new value-added services in information
services, post and tourism services. Based on the four key performance indicators in the PAD relating to
private sector cost sharing for N21SC, ETIS, IPTEKnet, and the TATP, this objective was unsuccessful.
But according to an USAID assessment of 2001 (Indonesia: IED Assessment, February), ICT vendors,
both domestic and foreign, were continuing their expansion programs in the country and there was
optimism for the future of the private sector in the ICT business in Indonesia. The emphasis on reducing
barriers in the IT sector, and, hence, promoting a more competitive environment, has begun to act as a
driver for an increased demand and supply with growing private sector participation. However, this is a
relatively young industry, and many businesses have gone through market corrections.

4.1.5    An Industrial Sector Analysis report issued in June 2000 by the US Embassy in Jakarta reflected
an increase in the demand for IT workers in Indonesia. There are now several viable software application
development houses such as Bali Camp (financed by the IFC), Toba Camp in northern Sumatra, and the
Indonesia Software Exchange. Jakarta-based IT recruitment firms have been sending programmers
overseas since the height of the financial crisis and can now barely keep up with demand from firms in the



                                                          - 6 -

region, according to USAID and a survey by AC Nielsen.

4.1.6   The grant nature of the TATP resulted in demand by SMEs for this program exceeding the original
project targets. An impact assessment performed in 2003 showed that about 1,200 SMEs (including
cooperatives and associations) benefited from the program through the provision of services by the
grantees, and 6,200 persons received IT training. A 2003 survey of 129 grantees showed that, under
TATP, most of the SMEs improved their productivity and increased their revenues, with an average
increase of 18%. Increases in revenues were also accompanied by an increase in employment of around 9%
in most SMEs. The grants were used by firms and cooperatives in several sectors for system integration
and software development, training, and website development. (Hickling Indonesia Management
Contractor, "Indonesia's Technical Assistance and Training Program Sucesses to Date," August 2001.)

4.1.7   Founded in 1994 as the Government of Indonesia Internet provider to the country's academic,
science and research communities, through the course of the past years IPTEKnet has seen a change in its
mandate from providing Internet connectivity to Indonesia's public institutions through a "regional node"
concept to a more focused entity today that operates and maintains the Government Secured Intranet and
Data Management Center. The project financed IPTEKnet's infrastructure development and partial
bandwidth payments, and business development with two objectives in mind: (i) reaching financial
self-sufficiency; and (ii) delivering its mandate to enable public and private sector users to access and
exchange governmental, ministerial, scientific, educational, technical and research data. A twinning
arrangement helped IPTEKnet develop partnerships and strategic alliances, identify e-Government
opportunities, put into effect a strategy for renewal, and establish secure and reliable electronic networks
that were becoming critical to government agencies. At end of project, the number of IPTEKnet's client
base taken as a percentage had not significantly grown, nor had there been any significant increase in the
number of on-line services provided. The Ministry of Research and Technology continues financing
IPTEKnet's budget deficit. There continues to be a shortfall between revenues earned and the cost of
operations due to inadequate revenues generated from membership fees, content development and cost
sharing arrangements. What has grown is a most definite acceptance of IPTEKnet as the government's
Secured Intranet Services Provider. Also, to date, IPTEKnet has franchised itself out into five provinces
with a private sector partner, reversing a trend in which the private sector continues to neglect the regions,
focusing their investments on more profitable urban areas.



4.2 Outputs by components:

Technical assistance was designed to build in-house technical expertise and capabilities and to undertake
analysis of complex legal and regulatory issues that arose in the context of e-government, e-commerce, and
increasing private provision of post and tourism services. It remains to be seen whether and how these
assignments will apply directly to growth in information infrastructure. In some cases, the lack of
supplementing regulation hinders the application of laws.


4.2.1   MTAC

i.      Postal Sector
         To enhance private sector participation in postal services, competition policy, pricing, public
         service obligations, and legislation were assessed and proposals made for a new Postal Law, and
         government regulations on post and on courier services. Based on these outputs, GOI reviewed the
         privileges and obligations of the Public Postal Operator, the question of whether or not to license
         courier operators, and policy on regulation of the postal industry. Subsequently, there was a partial



                                                      - 7 -

      elimination of reserved services, and an upgrade and simplification of all legislation with greater
      emphasis on the courier and express mail industry.

ii.   E-Commerce Harmonization
      Draft law on Indonesian Legal Framework for Electronic Information and Electronic Transactions
      was prepared and has been sent to the new Parliament, and is expected to be passed by February
      2005. Government regulations were also delivered on electronic signatures, electronic certification
      authority, and domain name registration. Several different ministries had to be coordinated in this
      effort, as there was little coordination or exchange of information among the ministries, and each
      had contracted different universities to prepare draft laws for electronic transactions and
      signatures. GOI has now formulated policies and laws that build trust and establish ground rules
      that provide confidence and direction to users of electronic transactions. There is no systematic
      collection of data on e-commerce growth in Indonesia.

iii.  Government On-Line
      As a result of the consultancy services that developed a roadmap for online Government in
      Indonesia there was: Presidential Instruction (3/2003) for a National Policy and Strategy to
      Implement e-Government; guidelines on the design and development of governmental portals; and
      guidelines on electronic management of information in government agencies. Government has
      requested donor assistance in implementing the pilot projects identified in the roadmap. Bappenas
      and BPPT have been champions of utilizing IT in carrying out their own responsibilities and in
      implementing the guidelines. Each government ministry however is still responsible for managing
      its IT equipment and systems.

iv.   e-Procurement Pilot
      Public procurement is a central pillar in GOI's ongoing efforts to improve governance. The
      e-procurement pilot was based on the recommendations of the Final Report of the TA to Facilitate
      the Deployment of Government Online in order to demonstrate the feasibility of undertaking
      e-procurement and to lay the basis for wider use in government. At end of project it was installed
      in three agencies (MCI, Ministry of Research and Technology, and Ministry of Energy and
      Mineral Resources) and is being further expanded through a public private partnership to other
      agencies. The main modules are: e-Tendering, e-Purchasing, e-Catalog, and Vendor and Agency
      management systems. MCI is financing the training and evaluation of the pilot after the close of the
      project. Indonesia is at a very early stage in e-procurement and it is too early to judge whether
      more government agencies will consider and adopt the pilot. Indonesia is now embarking on an
      ambitious program to develop e-Procurement and the Bank is supporting these efforts through the
      Government Financial Management and Revenue Administration Project. This program will entail:
      (i) developing e-legislation; (ii) testing the implementation of e-Procurement in three line ministries
      and two local governments; (iii) strengthening the capacity of the central procurement office
      (NPPO) to support the development of a national e-Procurement system including the development
      of a national portal. The agencies involved in the IIDP pilot and new Bank project are working
      together to ensure the benefits of the pilot are included in any national system.

v.    Electronic Tourism Information System (ETIS) Pilot
      The design and prototype of the ETIS was delivered comprising information scope, navigation
      system, travel planner, events, Indonesian Crafts, favorite destination travel agents, and a customer
      and user interface. It was planned ETIS would be established in Jakarta, Yogyakarta and Bali, but
      as a result of the decrease of tourism activity, especially due to the Bali and Jakarta bombings,
      ETIS was established only in Jakarta. At the end of the project, the private sector was not paying
      for the operational cost of ETIS, which, as a trial operation is being funded from by the
      Government's budget of MTAC. Thus, the 50% private sector contribution target specified in the


                                                     - 8 -

        PAD (key performance indicators) was not met and the activity was only a partial achievement.
        There are plans within MTAC to cover the remaining two geographical units if the private sector
        leads in financing.

vi.     Prototype of Intergovernmental Access to Shared Information System (IGASIS)
        The project delivered a prototype of a Web-based integration system that will access legacy
        systems that can be shared throughout the government. It was intended to be a "proof of concept"
        prototype to allow access to a database shared by participating ministries. At end of project,
        IGASIS was physically in use at 3 agencies who were sharing information and standard output on
        national development indicators from a single source. While it is too early to assess the impact of
        this system, there is a growing focus on maximizing benefits of shared government information
        resources.

4.2.2   DGIP

The PAD's key performance indicators for this component were achieved, most of them early in the
project. Laws on intellectual property rights supported by the project were enacted in 2000 and 2001
(Laws on Trade Secrets, Industrial Design, Integrated Circuit Layout, Patent, and Trademarks).
Copyrights Law No.19 was promulgated in 2002. DGIP implemented many of the recommendations
contained in the Institutional Action Plan completed in 2000, including establishing two new Directorates
(for Cooperation and IPR Development and for IT). As a result of the automation equipment activity under
the project, DGIP is able to electronically examine, register, and administer IP services (copyrights,
industrial design, patents, trademarks, integrated circuit layout, and trade secrets). Revenues from
increased capability to process IPR requests submitted electronically increased from Rp. 22.3 billion in
1999 ­ 2000 to Rp. 75.5 billion in 2003. For the overseas study activity, 10 staff were selected for a
Master's degree program abroad (Australia), but due to the English proficiency requirement, 9 staff
completed the program.

4.2.3   BAPPENAS

The draft of the National IT Framework (NITF) was completed in February 2001, and the final was
accepted by the Steering Committee in May 2001. The NITF was ratified by the TKTI and made part of
the 5 year IT Action Plan through Presidential Decree (KEPPRES No.6). The launching ("socialization")
of the NITF included the National Development Planning Information System (SIMRENAS). SIMRENAS
was delivered in August 2001; completion of some key modules was done in December 2001. All
equipment, application software and training for SIMRENAS was delivered to and implemented in 60
selected Bappeda offices by June 2002. By end of 2002, there were 560 offices connected to pilot systems,
compared to 387 offices as targeted at project appraisal.

4.2.4   IPTEKnet/ BPPT

A number of outcomes resulted from the BPPT-IPTEKnet component, the combined impact of which has
only partially helped to enhance private sector participation in IT services:

a. The twinning relationship led to both new technology deployment and business development as well as
    human resource development. It also contributed to reducing the costs of procurement of equipment for
    the Network Operating Centers, and implementing reliable, secure, and robust security systems.

b. New partnerships and strategic alliances have been developed such as between BPPT-Land Use
    Planning Agency, Agency of Population Control, Bureau of Statistics, etc. as a government service
    provider for Secured Intranet services, as well as with the private sector for regional expansion.

c. e-Government opportunities have been identified and developed with private firms, including an



                                                     - 9 -

    e-procurement, e-tendering software application package, an e-payment gateway, as well as
    government employee portal (IntraGov-ID/Negeriku, at www.negeiku.com ) as innovative efforts for
    information exchange to serve G2G, G2B and G2C markets.

d. Putting into effect a strategy for renewal that running the government's data management center,
    providing connectivity to approximately 25 government agencies, and establishing new funding
    mechanisms (contrary to past practices) in which agencies fund Intranet equipment purchases and
    bandwidth through their own internal budgets if they wish to connect to IPTEKnet's GSI.

e. Enhanced human resources quality through certified training by internationally appointed organizations
    including nSoft, CISCO and ISO 9001.

 f. Received ISO certification in 2003 for Quality Management in Service.

4.2.5   MOIT

    a. The Technical Assistance and Training Program (TATP) provided cost sharing grants to SMEs to
         help them obtain IT services, and training to strengthen service providers. MOIT received 268
         applications from SMEs for a total grant value of US$4.4 million, which exceeded the initial target
         of US$3.7 million. MOIT approved 247 applications for a total grant value of US$4.1 million, of
         which 234 cost sharing contracts were signed for a total grant value of US$3.7 million. When
         combined with the private sector contribution from the SMEs of US$1.4 million, the total value of
         the contracts was US$5.1 million.

    b. The small pilot provided support under the project to Wartels (public kiosks) to adopt VoIP in
         their services to the public at competitive rates to help accelerate utilization of VoIP. There are
         over 200,000 Wartels operating 500,000 subscriber lines that contribute over 20% to PT Telkom's
         annual revenue. Wartel owners are typically receptive to ICT and technology innovation, especially
         if a new technology such as VoIP could reduce their cost of long distance calls. The pilot was
         undertaken in cooperation with the Indonesian Wartel Association (APWI), with a joint financing
         scheme of 25% from the Wartels and 75% from the GOI. The key policy issue at that time
         concerning the legality of offering VoIP services was discussed with GOI and there was no
         restriction to the offering of VoIP services in the Wartels. At end of the project the VoIP equipment
         was installed in 200 Wartels as targeted in Jakarta, Bandung, Semarang, Surabaya, and Cikarang.
         However, the success of the pilot was undermined by an abuse of the incumbent's dominant
         position in the market. The Wartels were threatened to have their PSTN lines disconnected by PT
         Telkom if revenue to PT Telkom dropped significantly . Nonetheless, the impact review of the
                                                                          4


         pilot conducted by the TATP Management Contractor encouragingly showed that the Wartel's
         overall income generated from domestic long distance calls and international long distance calls
         using the VoIP had increased by 17% and 43% respectively during the pilot. In the end, this was a
         technologically interesting pilot but the weak enforcement mechanisms in the regulatory regime
         prevented it from taking off.

4
   Wartels collectively generate approximately a quarter of all telephone traffic in Indonesia and contribute approximately
20% of PT Telkom's revenue from telephony.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1    No Net Present Value (NPV) or Economic Rate of Return (ERR) were calculated for the project.

4.3.2    NPVs of $24.5 million and $4.0 million were calculated at appraisal for the network expansion
component - IPTEKnet - and for the Electronic Tourist Information System (ETIS). Both activities were
expected to become profitable in year 2000. The NPVs were based on financial returns from profit-making



                                                            - 10 -

components, but profits did not materialize. Unquantifiable benefits relating to establishing a secured
intranet service for e-government applications and providing pilot information services to support the
tourism industry suggest that the overall economic rate of return may still be positive.

4.3.3    With the financial crisis in July 1997, underlying assumptions driving the NPV calculations did not
hold. The economy collapsed and terrorist activities acted as a deterrent for domestic and foreign
investment, and discouraged tourism (see section 4.1.1) At project closing, both activities were not self
sustainable and the expected level of private sector participation did not take place.

4.3.4    IPTEKnet is working on a transition plan to move towards a self-sufficient model as ETIS is,
although international experience shows that such tourism portals rarely attract funds from the private
sector and often remain heavily subsidized.

4.3.5    At appraisal, the economic analysis primarily relied on qualitative aspects. The main rationale was
to help Indonesia to reduce its lag in its information infrastructure development, in order to support national
growth and development across all sectors of the economy. At the time, the Bank ­ as the other actors in
the field - lacked knowledge in the monitoring and evaluation of such projects, which is still a debated topic
today (see section 3.5.2). Specific components difficult or too early to measure include the potential for
GOI to further automate its government processes as a result of the secured network managed by
IPTEKnet, and the procurement guidelines for IT procurement as well as the planned roll-out of the
e-procurement pilot.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 No Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was calculated for the project.

4.4.2    The same Internal Rates of Return (IRR) of 27% was calculated at appraisal for the network
expansion component--IPTEKnet--and for ETIS. The same rationale as described in 4.3 applies and IRRs
have not been recalculated.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest institutional development impact has been achieved under this project. This rating is based
primarily on component 1. Improving the Legal and Regulatory Framework, where a complete package of
laws and procedures on copyrights and trademarks were drafted as planned and implemented. In addition, a
law on Patent was completed in 2001. The institutional action plan was prepared as planned, and also
implemented, as illustrated by the creation in 2001 of two new Directorates, namely Directorate of IPR
Development and Directorate of Information Technology.

A draft national IT framework with a five year action plan was prepared and adopted in 2001. This plan
includes topic such as e-government for good governance, e-Business to support small and medium
enterprises, e-democracy, IT for education, as well as guidelines for IT investments. Further, an assessment
was done and recommendations were prepared to harmonize the regulatory framework to promote
e-commerce.

Indonesian laws and policy are formulated without much input from the private sector. In mid-August
2000, the President issued a decree (No. 96/2000) banning all new foreign investment in the multimedia
industry, such as Internet Service Providers, portals, e-commerce services and so-called "dot com"
companies on the rationale that "local players need more space to develop their business." After much
protest, including some through coordinated meetings with the Bank, bilateral agencies, and industry
associations (APJII, APWI, ASPILUKI among others), a subsequent presidential decree (No. 118/2000)
reversed the prior decree and provided the catalyst for the private sector to bond together and lobby GOI
for its engagement in policy formulation.



                                                     - 11 -

Finally, a draft postal regulation, based on the legal and regulatory framework developed under the project,
was prepared and has been submitted to the State Secretariat for President's approval.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The major external factor affecting the project was the severity of the unforeseen financial and economic
crisis that began in 1997, shortly after Board approval, and the ensuing devaluation of the Rupiah.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The project was very demanding on the Borrower, since it involved several ministries and implementing
agencies that were all part of the N21SC. Developing a coordinated strategy among them was a daunting
task. In addition, a large amount of procurement activities required substantial knowledge of the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Throughout the implementation period, the Borrower kept the same staff in the
CPMIU, which minimized the problem of less than sufficient procurement skills in some PMIUs.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The complexity of having a number of components, activities and agencies involved in the project was
efficiently coordinated by the CPMIU through good project management especially in procurement and
financial reporting.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project was US$ 28.8 million as compared to the appraisal estimate of US$ 53.2
million. Details of the project cost and financing are available in Annex 2. The Bank financed US$ 25.8
million of the total project cost as compared to the original Bank loan of US$ 34.5 million. As part of the
Bank dialogue with the GOI on portfolio restructuring after the economic crisis in 1997, the loan was
reduced to US$ 26 million. A second amendment in May 1999 changed GOI's portion of the loan from
20% to 0%. In the end, the Bank financed US$ 25.9 million, the GOI US$ 2.8 million, for total payments
of US$ 28.7 million. At the time of project closing, 99% of the loan amount was disbursed.

(in $ million) Bank GOI Private Total
                                 sector

 Appraisal      34.5     10.2     8.5     53.2
 Revised        26.0     1.6      1.4      29
 Disbursed      25.9     1.6      1.4     28.9




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Quality Assessment Group judged as "likely" that the project's results will be sustainable in the
longer-term, based on the:

l establishment of appropriate legislation;

l coordination between government, private sector, and bilateral efforts; and



                                                     - 12 -

l private sector's pressure for progress in the ICT sector.



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Other factors supporting the likelihood of sustainability at the end of the project include:

l Increasing demand for IT services, as many of Indonesian non-ICT companies look to Internet and
    e-commerce solutions that require them to become more IT capable and possess better quality
    hardware. For instance, about 75% of PT Compaq's revenue comes from non-PC income comprising
    of enterprise solutions and services.

l A process of collaboration between public and private sectors in evaluating and contributing to national
    IT-related projects to an extent that would not have been possible four years ago.

l Increasing public private partnerships in ICT infrastructure development, e.g., IPTEKnet's franchising
    into five provinces.

l Government support to develop useful applications of e-government, such as for e-procurement,
    decentralization, and easy access to government data to citizens, and email accounts to government
    workers.

l GOI using IPTEKnet to serve as its technical platform and Intranet provider and a refocus of
    IPTEKnet away from the bandwidth business on the Government's Secured Intranet Provider and
    operator of the Government Data Management Center that will lead IPTEKnet towards a path of
    sustainability and self-sufficiency and form a platform over which e-government services can be
    provided. The ambitious goal of IPTEKnet becoming a commercial and a public robust ISP has been
    tailored down.

l A framework (NITF) is in place for future on-line government applications that includes the integration
    of central and local government applications. It is being used as the guideline for the UNDP funded
    ICT for Poverty Reduction Project.

l Existing laws and regulations related to e-Commerce have been harmonized according to international
    standards. These will help create an environment of confidence, trust and security for electronic
    payments, and protection of privacy and personal data. The current pace of e-commerce on an
    international scale will likely force Indonesia to accelerate its transition from an essentially paper-based
    commercial market to a market that includes a substantial degree of e-commerce.

l DGIP continues processing IPR requests electronically and now self-finances ICT access to its regional
    offices, removing previous barriers and slowness in processing IPR requests from the private sector.

l The expansion of VoIP services in WARTELS has now been taken up as a project by the MCI.

l There is growing awareness, according to USAID IED Assessment, at least amongst medium and large
    scale businesses and some SMEs in Indonesia that ICT-based businesses are the way of the future.

l Tim Koordinasi Telematika Indonesia (TKTI, Indonesian Telematics Coordinating Team), established
    by Presidential Decree 50/2000 as N21SC successor to accelerate use and development of IT in the
    country, continues to receive high-level political support and provides forums for interactions between
    public and private sectors. This is essential if over-regulation is to be avoided and to ensure private
    sector participation in policy formulation.

l Follow-on activities by the new Government as part of its First 100 Days Agenda (see section 9).




                                                      - 13 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1    The overall performance was satisfactory. The project was consistent with the GOI's desire to
build on reforms in the telecommunications sector and increase private sector provision of IT, post and
tourism services, and with the Bank's CAS for Indonesia at the time. Active participation and commitment
of all stakeholders during project identification, preparation and appraisal led to successful outcomes in
institutional reform and IT sector development. The project team built on the relationship developed
between the Bank and GOI during the previous five completed telecommunications projects implemented in
Indonesia, that started in 1970.

7.1.2    The project team succeeded in involving the GOI, the various implementing agencies, and the
private sector in an interactive and collaborative process to identify and establish a realistic set of
objectives for the project, and in aligning them more clearly with private sector development needs and
industrial competitiveness. This resulted in a broad consensus among all parties on the main elements of
information infrastructure development and the specifics of implementation. During all stages of the
project the Bank maintained close dialogue with the GOI and all implementing agencies to ensure that the
project objectives were directly in line with the client's goals for the sector, especially during the economic
crisis. The staff mix and its continuity during project preparation, appraisal and implementation were
important for keeping the Bank's client relationship productive and effective in resolving urgent issues.

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1    GOI and all implementing agencies have recognized the extent of the harmonious and fruitful
working relationship, which the Bank maintained with all parties during the project. The continued efforts
on procurement and disbursement ex-post reviews in supervision missions was particularly recognized and
appreciated, as were the Bank efforts to help coordinate donor programs in developing the private sector in
the information services industry with USAID, TKTI, JICA, and the Indonesian Warnet Association and
the Association of Indonesian Internet Service Providers.

7.2.2    The overall supervision of the project was satisfactory. There were nine supervision missions. The
project team ensured that the implementing entities followed Bank procurement guidelines, and whenever
problems were detected, the project team raised issues with the PMIUs and CPMIU and Resident Mission
for remedial actions. This included two activities that resulted in misprocurement, which were not financed
under the project. One of these was a complex procurement in which there were technical differences in
judgment between the Bank and the implementing agency, BPPT, on the bids submitted. Since no
agreement could be reached between the Bank and the Government, it was decided to declare
misprocurement.

7.2.3    Bank's staff processed modifications in the project, including extension of the closing date, in an
efficient manner in order to respond to the Borrower's needs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.2.1    GOI and all implementing agencies have recognized the extent of the harmonious and fruitful
working relationship, which the Bank maintained with all parties during the project. The continued efforts
on procurement and disbursement ex-post reviews in supervision missions was particularly recognized and
appreciated, as were the Bank efforts to help coordinate donor programs in developing the private sector in
the information services industry with USAID, TKTI, JICA, and the Indonesian Warnet Association and



                                                      - 14 -

the Association of Indonesian Internet Service Providers.


7.2.2    The overall supervision of the project was satisfactory. There were nine supervision missions. The
project team ensured that the implementing entities followed Bank procurement guidelines, and whenever
problems were detected, the project team raised issues with the PMIUs and CPMIU and Resident Mission
for remedial actions. This included two activities that resulted in misprocurement, which were not
financed under the project. One of these was a complex procurement in which there were
technical differences in judgment between the Bank and the implementing agency, BPPT, on the
bids submitted. Since no agreement could be reached between the Bank and the Government, it
was decided to declare misprocurement.

7.2.3    Bank's staff processed modifications in the project, including extension of the closing date, in an
efficient manner in order to respond to the Borrower's needs.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The CPMIU was identified
and appointed before project appraisal. At the time, the CPMIU resided within MTPT, before a number of
cabinet reorganizations occurred 1998. Despite these changes, the CPMIU remained stable throughout the
project. Prior to negotiations, the Borrower developed a detailed project implementation plan and complete
package of TORs. The quality of the Borrowers' commitment and contribution to the preparation of the
project are notable.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The project received the full commitment of the GOI and the total dedication of the implementing agencies,
PMIUs, and CPMIU. The CPMIU worked closely with the PMIUs and with the project team, mutually
supporting each other to ensure success of the project's objectives. Owing to the 1997 East Asian crisis, the
government frequently faced counterpart funding problems.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of Bappenas, BPPT, DGIP, MOIT and MTAC was satisfactory. Overall, the PMIUs
implemented their tasks satisfactorily with support of the CPMIU. During implementation period, there
were instances of un-disbursed backlogs, which were satisfactorily handled by the CPMIU.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. Project reports including Mid-Term Report and monthly
progress reports were prepared and submitted to the Bank on schedule. This led to successful monitoring of
the activities as well as provided assistance to the supervision missions of the Bank in accessing progress.
In 2002 the Ministry of Finance selected the IIDP/CPMIU as one of 20 projects in the Bank portfolio to
begin a decentralized process of administering disbursement.

8. Lessons Learned

a. Project management increases in complexity when several ministries and agencies are involved in
    essentially cross-sectoral projects. The number of agencies should be limited as much as possible and
    pro-active coordination mechanism established with sufficient procurement and financial management
    capabilities.

b. To secure the benefits of improved access to information and services available to governmental,


                                                      - 15 -

    ministerial, scientific, educational, and technical research communities, future projects should examine
    options such as taking advantage of commercial methods of financing investment in networks,
    outsourcing to private suppliers, and improving the effectiveness of regulation.

c. Training and re-training of PMIUs in Bank procurement guidelines is needed to enhance the quality and
    speed of the procurement process and to effectively address procurement problems. This is especially
    important for new agencies implementing the Bank's project for the first time.

d. From IPTEKnet's recent efforts to expand into the provinces, it became ever clearer that GOI needs
    connectivity throughout the country, not just Jakarta. Indonesia faces a crisis in deploying information
    infrastructure to support national development. In particular, the lack of an adequate information
    infrastructure outside large cities hinders economic development, and is creating an urban/rural digital
    divide of a magnitude that is potentially destabilizing. To overcome the obstacles to rural infrastructure
    deployment, only a sustainable model for the commercial operation of community-owned information
    and communications infrastructure offers an effective solution.

e. Continuity in the Bank's project team and the CPMIU can be critical for satisfactory project
    implementation.

f. Pilot projects should have a clear methodology in place for scaling up and assessing viability for
    replication, and be backed by effective implementation and enforcement of policies and laws.

g. Increasingly, the convergence of ICT services and markets necessitates a corresponding convergence of
    institutional authority to deal with the sector and to make most effective use of limited supply of
    high-caliber regulatory professionals. Other countries in the region, EU, and Latin America have
    learned that developing and implementing appropriate national policies and programs on ICT requires
    institutional focus and authority. However, in Indonesia the authority to formulate and implement ICT
    policies, strategies and regulations is spread within several institutions (Ministry of Communication
    and Information, Ministry of Transportation/DG Post and Telecommunication, Ministry of Research
    and Technology, and Bappenas). This impedes putting ICT to work for economic growth and
    employment, and achieving measurable results from investments in ICT.

h. A systematic set of indicators should be agreed upon and established to monitor and evaluate both
    implementation of e-development projects and their impact on sector development (including ex-ante
    net benefit calculation). Monitoring and evaluation should not be an `ex-post facto' component of an
    IT/ICT or e-development strategy.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1.1 The CPMIU provided the Bank its combined Implementation Completion Report for the project,
dated October 2004. A summary of this report is provided below.

9.1.2    The Information Infrastructure Development Project supported the IT sector in Indonesia from
1997 to 2004. The aim of this project was to enhance private sector participation in the provision of IT,
post and tourism services through removal of barriers to entry. The project supported key policy and
institutional reforms in the areas of intellectual property, e-commerce, postal services, and public sector
procurement of IT. The increasing focus on IT and e-Commerce projects, and recently e-Government, has
helped promote wide awareness of the policy and strategy issues involved. Equally important has been the
project's role in contributing to the process of collaboration between public and private sectors as well as
bringing together bilateral and multilateral donors involved in ICT.




                                                      - 16 -

9.1.3   Since the inception of the project, there was an economic crisis in the country and two changes in
administration. This however did not stop the need for policy and strategy development, and to facilitate
p1ilot implementations. Rationalization of this effort is now underway, specifically through the National
Telematics Coordinating Team (Tim Koordinasi Telematika Indonesia--Telematika) program
harmonization and integration process. As the coordinating agency for Telematika, the Ministry of
Communications and Information is promoting information infrastructure development, e-government, and
e-commerce. It has responsibility to coordinate, formulate and disseminate policies and strategies for ICT
development. Clearly our plans will need to be refined and new programs like e-procurement, VoIP,
electronic banking, and utilization of excess network capacity will have to be prioritized. But the activity
that has generated this focus is largely the result of the IIDP.

9.1.4   Japanese and Dutch Trust Fund have complemented the project and its constituent sub-projects.
Considering the performance achieved, some of the project activities are already sustainable. It is important
to thoroughly address the issues of socialization of IT, scaling up pilot projects, and the culture within
government of keeping information closely held and of focusing more on process than on customer.
Sustainability also requires support on financial commitment. A request for further Bank assistance has
been made in the selected areas of rural access to information infrastructure, ICT literacy and capacity
building, online government services, and policy support for our plans to integrate telecommunications,
broadcasting, and IT into one Ministry.

9.1.5   The outcome of the project has been successful. The Bank was effective in providing support and
technical advice for the successful implementation of the different activities under this project. A priority of
the new government's "First 100 Days Agenda" is to improve community access to information, post, and
Telematika services.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
While no other partner was directly involved in this project, the Bank helped coordinate donor programs in
developing the private sector in the information services industry with Kadin Telematika, Mastel, USAID,
TKTI, JICA, the Computer Software Association of Indonesia, the Indonesian Warnet Association and the
Association of Indonesian Internet Service Providers.

10. Additional Information

10.1    The IIDP influence on the Government agenda

The new government, which came into power in October 2004, has established a First 100 Days Agenda,
which, within Indonesia's five-year plan, define actions and responsibilities in priority areas. In particular,
this agenda includes activities that will strengthen directly or indirectly some of IIDP's activities, including:

l Completion of the Restructuring of Telematika to improve access to information services through: (i)
    the improvement of community access to post and Telematika services; and (ii) the development of
    secured network for electronic transactions.

l Acceleration of the development of infrastructure, by laying the ground for a change in the policies
    about the development and financing of infrastructure through an improved cooperation between the
    government and the private sector. In particular, this objective will be supported, by the creation of a
    work group to develop a strategy to accelerate the development of infrastructure through public-private
    partnerships, with the continuous support from the World Bank, the ADB and JBIC.


                                                      - 17 -

10.2    Interest of the Ministry of Communication and Information

During the ICR mission in November 2004, the MCI showed a strong commitment to expedite, with
possible Bank support, the financing and implementation of policy initiatives, in particular in the following
key areas:

l Increasing Rural Access: Rollout of telecommunications/information infrastructure to increase rural
   bandwidth, broadband if possible, focus on public access, and expansion of Community Access Points
   program, and undertake work on associated regulatory and policy issues;

l Support capacity-building including skills development (general users, technical and managerial),
   strengthening e-leadership capabilities within TKTI, and supporting the policy and regulatory
   framework for a merger of telecommunications, broadcasting management, and IT policy and
   coordination into one ministry and accompanying processes and procedures for policy monitoring and
   evaluation;

l Implement information systems (back-end operations) that support the collection, processing and
   distribution of data throughout the government, and upgrading government data management capability
   that host and disseminate in a cost effective and affordable manner existing core content; and

l Scale-up selected ICT applications, online government services (front-end) through private-public
   partnerships such as IGASIS and e-procurement and among others.




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:

          Outcome/Impact              Key Performance Indicators           Actual/latest estimate

Sector-Related CAS Goal

Enhance private sector            a. Increase in foreign direct          Both indicators have been
involvement in IT insfrastructure.   investment in IT goods and          significantly impacted by the
                                     services.                           economic crisis and the

                                  b. Increase in domestic IT             terrorist activities in Indonesia.

                                     Industry growth and IT
                                     investment per capita.           a. While FDI overall decreased
                                                                         by 68.7% between 1996 and
                                                                         2003, FDI in transport and
                                                                         communications showed a
                                                                         reverse trend, and reached $
                                                                         3.7 billion in both 2002 and
                                                                         2003.

                                                                      b. ICT expenditure as a % of
                                                                         GDP kept stable rate, varying
                                                                         from 19% to 2.2% between
                                                                         1996 and 2001, and
                                                                         decreased to 1.5% in 2002. As
                                                                         far as expenditure per capita,
                                                                         Indonesia went from $ 22.5 to
                                                                         16.6 in 2001. However prices
                                                                         in dollars are not deemed
                                                                         reliable considering the
                                                                         devaluation of the Rupiah in
                                                                         the period under review.


Project Development Objectives
                                  a. Formulation of draft legislation a. Legislation has been drafted
Remove barriers to entry in IT       protecting software, data and       and implemented in 1999.
services.                            integrated circuits (to be          Actual impact of the law is
                                     completed by 1999).                 difficult to assess and data are

                                  b. Increased private sector            lacking.

                                     participation in new             b. While the project involved the
                                     value-added information, post       private sector to a large
                                     and tourism services.               extent, particularly with the
                                                                         TATP activities, the project
                                                                         recorded lower investment
                                                                         level than anticipated. More
                                                                         time might be needed for
                                                                         observing definite results in
                                                                         this area.




                                                - 19 -

Output Indicators:

                   Key Performance Indicators                     PAD - Baseline  PAD - Planned   Actual/latest
                                                                                                    estimate

1. Legal and regulatory framework to promote IT
      applications available and effectively implemented:
a. N21SC : The establishment of a permanent secretariat to
formulate and implement national strategy for IT development;
N21SC will conduct the following number of studies, workshops,           1              7
formulation of policies.                                                                               n.a.1

b. Operational and event co-sponsorship: Financial cost-sharing
                                                                                                            1
and private sector co-sponsorship of N21SC initiatives, to             10%           100%             n.a.
ensure sustainability after project completion.
c. MTPT: Draft proposal recommending the enactment of new
legislation and regulatory regime for the postal sector.                n.a.          n.s.            2000

d. MTAC:Draft proposal recommending the enactment of new                                         Proposals for new
legislation on regulatory regime for the postal sector2.                n.a.          n.a.      laws were prepared;
                                                                                                  new laws were
                                                                                                drafted by GOI and
                                                                                                   submitted for
                                                                                                   presidential
                                                                                                     approval.
e. IT Framework and SIMRENAS: Number of offices (nodes)
connected to pilot systems project (SIMRENAS), which will           140 (1998)     387 (2001)       560 (2002)

demonstrate benefits of IT framework, standardization, and
sharing common planning data.
f. Strengthening capacity of IPR management: Strengthen service
capacity of DGCPT and other agencies responsible for
implementation of IPR regulations and law faculties:                    n.a.          2000             2000
      - Develop an institutional action plan                            n.a.          1998             1999
      - Design new procedures, systems and structures,
         including automation support facilities

g. DGIP: Complete draft laws and regulations and implement
the related activities aimed at strengthening IPR protection of         n.a.          1999            2000
software, data, and integrated circuit.                                               (all)             (all)
      - Draft integrated circuits (topography) law
      - Draft regulation for IC (topography) law
      - Draft regulation for trademark law
      - Draft undisclosed information (trade secrets) law
      - Draft regulation for trade secret law
      - Design DGCPT automation action plan

         Other Regulations:

      - Draft regulation for copyright law
      - Draft industrial design law
      - Draft regulation for industrial design law

2. Communications and connectivity to outlying regions
      expanded and intensified

a. IPTEKnet

     - Number of regional nodes on S&T network                           5             35               353
     - Number of individual users                                     3,300         16,950           >11,000
     - Number of corporate users                                        32            224            36 (2003)
    - International Bandwith2                                        512 kbps       2 Mbps           8 Mbps

b. MTAC/DG Tourism

        - Number of ETIS pilot system                                  none             2                3

3. Institutional capacity strengthened

a. N21SC: % increase in IT training and awareness building              tbd        Base+50%            n.a.1

b. IT Framework and SIMRENAS: % of IT investments



                                                                - 20 -

                                                                            n.a.              100%                  60%
      conforming to revised national criteria

c. IPTEKnet: quality of services                                            tbd            Base +50%        ITPEKnet is now
                                                                                                             ISO9001/9001
                                                                                                             certified, and its
                                                                                                            NOC is available
                                                                                                             24x7x365, local
                                                                                                               and remote
                                                                                                             monitoring, and
                                                                                                              98% up time.

4. Private sector participation in providing information
   infrastructure increased

a. N21SC: % cost sharing of N21SC operating expenses                        10%                50%                  n.a.1

b. ETIS: % sharing of total costs                                           n.a.               50%                  0%

c. IPTEKnet:

    - % sharing of total costs                                              n.a.               15%                  0%

d. TATP: % grant disbursed with average 50% private match                   n.a.               90%                  25%


1N21SC functions were formalized into Tim Koordinasi Telematika Indonesia (TKTI) and indicators were not controllable under
   project-financed activities. As the clearing house for reaching understanding between agencies, between government and private
   sector, between government and donors on ICT policies, strategies, and major initiatives, TKTI has conducted numerous workshops
   and studies and continues to provide ongoing advice on national policies and strategies.
2Added at Mid-Term.
3This includes 26 Governmnent institutions, 4 universities, 2 private companies and 3 other organizations.

n.a.       Not applicable                    n.s.      Not specified                 tbd       To be determined




                                                                    - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal      Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate        Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                             US$ million      US$ million
A. Improving the legal and regulatory framework                17.00            10.90           64.2
B. Expanding the science and technology network                13.37              7.97          59.5
C. Expansion of communications and information                  2.16              1.31          60.6
networks: posts and tourism
D. Technical assistance and training program                   15.00              7.92          52.8
E. Project management assistance                                1.67              0.73          43.7

Total Baseline Cost                                            49.20            28.83
 Price Contingencies                                            4.00
                         Total Project Costs                   53.20            28.83
                  Total Financing Required                     53.20            28.83
The Contingeny of US$4 million include both Physical and Price Contingencies.



Project Cost by Implementing Agency (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                    Appraisal Actual/Late Percentage
                                                                 st Estimate          of
             Implementing Agency                    Estimate                    Appraisal
                                                                 US$ million
                                                       US$
                                                      million

1. MTAC (Ministry of Culture & Tourism)                8.64         6.95            80.4

2. DGIP (Ministry of Justice & Human Right)            4.70          2.72           57.9

3. BAPPENAS                                            3.95          2.23           56.5

4. IPTEKNET / BPPT                                    16.91          9.01           53.3

5. MOIT (Ministry of Industrial & Trade)              15.00          7.92           52.8

Total Baseline Cost                                   49.20          28.83

Contingency                                            4.00          0.00

Total Project Costs                                   53.20          28.83

Total Financing Required                              53.20          28.83




                                                - 22 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                               7.70               0.00               1.20             0.00              8.90
                                      (7.50)             (0.00)             (0.40)           (0.00)             (7.90)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              23.80             1.10              24.90
Consultants'                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (17.10)           (0.00)            (17.10)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.40             0.00              0.40
Local workshops and                   (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.40)           (0.00)             (0.40)
overseas study tours
5. Incremental operating               0.00               0.00               5.50             1.30              6.80
cost                                  (0.00)             (0.00)             (3.00)           (0.00)             (3.00)
6. TAPT grants                         0.00               0.00               6.10             6.10              12.20
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (6.10)           (0.00)             (6.10)
   Total                               7.70               0.00              37.00             8.50              53.20
                                      (7.50)             (0.00)            (27.00)           (0.00)            (34.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               3.14               0.09              0.04             0.00              3.27
                                      (3.14)             (0.09)            (0.04)            (0.00)           (3.27)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00             14.66             0.00             14.66
Consultants'                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (14.66)            (0.00)           (14.66)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              1.41             0.00              1.41
Local workshops and                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.41)            (0.00)           (1.41)
overseas study tours
5. Incremental operating               0.00               0.00              3.82             0.00              3.82
cost                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.21)            (0.00)           (2.21)
6. TAPT grants                         0.00               0.00              4.30             1.37              5.67
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.30)            (0.00)           (4.30)
   Total                               3.14               0.09             24.23             1.37             28.83
                                      (3.14)             (0.09)           (22.62)            (0.00)           (25.85)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



                                                      - 23 -

Project Financing by Implementing Agency (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
  Implementing Agency          Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                           Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
A. Improving the legal and 13.16     3.84        0.00    10.90       0.00       0.00  82.8    0.0     0.0
regulatory framework
B. Expanding the science   7.74      3.60        2.03     6.36       1.61       0.00  82.2    44.7    0.0
and technology network
C. Expansion of            1.42      0.45        0.29     1.31       0.00       0.00  92.3    0.0     0.0
communications and
information networks:
posts and tourism
D. Technical assistance    8.41      0.45        6.14     6.55       0.00       1.37  77.9    0.0     22.3
and training program
E. Project management      0.77      0.88        0.02     0.73       0.00       0.00  94.8    0.0     0.0
assistance
- Base Cost                31.50     9.22        8.48    25.85       1.61       1.37  82.1    17.5    16.2
- Contingency              3.00      1.00        0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00  0.0     0.0     0.0
- Total Cost               34.50     10.22       8.48    25.85       1.61       1.37  74.9    15.8    16.2




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits



                               Present Value of Flows                          Fiscal Impact
                                  Economic Analysis        Financial Analysis  Taxes    Subsidies
At Appraisal:
- Benefits                              n.a             IPTEKnet                 n.a       n.a
                                                        IRR: 26.8% (Nominal)
- Costs                                 n.a                 18.8 % (Real)        n.a       n.a
                                                        ETIS
                                                        IRR: 26.9% (Nominal)
                                                            18.9 % (Real)
At project closing:
- Benefits                              n.a             IPTEKnet                 n.a       n.a
                                                        IRR: n.a
- Costs                                 n.a             ETIS
                                                        IRR: n.a
n.a.    not assessed / not applicable




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/12/1997                3    Task Team Leader (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Operations Officer coutry
                                             office(1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/12/1997                1    Task Team Leader (1)

 Supervision

              03/02/1998                1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
              12/12/1998                3    Sr. Informatics Sp. (1);              S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1); Financial
                                             Analyst (1)
              07/30/1999                3    Task Team Leader (1); Officer,        S               S
                                             Country Office (1); Procurement
                                             Analyst (1)
              05/14/2000                2    Task Team Leader (1); Officer,        S               S
                                             Country Office (1)
              05/14/2000                1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
              12/08/2000                1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
              11/16/2001                4    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Procurement Analyst (1); Officer
                                             Country Office (1); Country
                                             Office (1)
              05/09/2001                4    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Procurement Analyst (1); INF
                                             Technical Analyst (1);
                                             Consultant (1)
              11/15/2002                4    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1); IT
                                             Specialist (1); Procurement
                                             Assistant (1)
              04/09/2003                2    Task Team Leader IT Specialist        S               S
                                             (1)
              12/18/2003                4    Task Team leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Analyst (1); Financial Mgmt
                                             Specialist (1)

 ICR
              10/25/2004                3     Task Team Leader (1);                S               S
                                              From HQ:
                                              Procurement Specialist (1);
                                              Consultant (1). Peer
                                              reviewers (4).




                                              - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           56.18                     178,709.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                          79.71                     338,357.19
  ICR                                  10.00                      35,000.00
  Total                              145.89                      552,066.19




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents are filed in the ImageBank, the project's IRIS4 folder, or the SAP/Portal systems:


Documents                                                                        Location

1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of IBRD to                        IRIS4
     Executive Directors

2. Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 17106-IND)                            ImageBank

3. Final Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) (10/24/2002)                      IRIS4

4. Project Status Reports                                                   SAP/Project Portal

5. Project Aide Memoires                                                            IRIS4

6. Project Back-to-Office Reports                                                   IRIS4

7. Borrower's ICR (10/2004)                                                         IRIS4


8. State Auditors' Reports (2001-2004)           1                                  IRIS4


9. ITU World Telecommunications Development Report                                  GICT

10. USAID Internet for Economic Development Assessment Report                       GICT
     (2/2001)


1
 At the time of this report, the final audit report was not available.




                                                                - 30 -

- 31 -

