Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16161
IM1PLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT
AND DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM (EDDRP)
(CREDIT 2396-NAI)
December 9, 1996
Country Operations Department III
Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00            MK 15.3 (March 1996)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADMARC   - Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ASAC        - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BMR         - Budget Management Review
BOP         - Balance of Payments
CAS         - Country Assistance Strategy
CBI         - Cross Boarder Initiative for Eastern and Southern Africa
CCFF        - Compensatory Contingency Financing Facility
CG          - Consultative Group Meeting
COMESA   - Common Market for Eastem and Southem Africa
CPPR        - Country Portfolio Performance Review
ECU         - European Currency Unit
EDDRP       - Entrepreneurship Development and Drought Recovery Program
EDI         - Economic Development Institute
EPZ         - Export Processing Zone
ESAF        - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FMIS        - Financial Management Information System
FRDP        - Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program
FUA         - African Development Fund
GOM         - Government of Malawi
IBRD        - International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
ICR         - Implementation Completion Report
IDA         - International Development Association
IMF         - International Monetary Fund
ITPAC       - Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
MASAF       - Malawi Social Action Fund
MDC         - Malawi Development Corporation
MIPA        - Malawi Investment Promotion Agency
MK          - Malawi Kwacha
MSB          Malawi Savings Bank
MT          - Metric Tons
MTEF        - Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
PAR         - Project Audit Report
PCR          Project Completion Report
PFP         -- Policy Framework Paper
PSI          Pre-Shipment Inspection
PSIP         Public Sector Investment Program
RBM         - Reserve Bank of Malawi
SAR         - Staff Appraisal Report
SGR        - Strategic Grain Reserve
SME         - Small and Micro-Enterprise
SOE         - State Owned Enterprise
SPA         - Special Program of Assistance to Low-Income
Debt-Distressed Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa
TCC         - Tobacco Control Commission
TEP         - Temporary Employment Permit
TOR         - Terms of Reference
VAT         - Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR (FY96/97)
April 1,1996-March 31, 1997
Vice President              C. Madavo
Director                    B. Kafka
Manager                     A. Aksoy
Task Team Leader            H. Schafer/A. Ahsan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND DROUGHT
RECOVERY PROGRAM
CREDIT 2396-MAI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................................................                                                                                                           i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................................................                                                                                            iii
BACKGROUND .........................................................................................1
PROGRAM    OBJECTIVES  ........................................................................................  3
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES . ........................................................................................ 3
Macroeconomic Performance ........................................................................................                                                                                 3
Structural Reforms ........................................................................................                                                                                        4
Drought Component ........................................................................................                                                                                       10
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM ...........                                                                                                   ............................. 11
PROGRAM  SUSTAINABILITY .........................................................................................1.1
IDA  PERFORMANCE ........................................................................................                                                                                               12
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................................................................................... 14
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ........................................................................................                                                                                          14
FUTURE OPERATION ........................................................................................                                                                                               15
KEY   LESsoNs  LEARNED   ........................................................................................  15
TEXT, FIGURES AND BOXES
Box  1: IMPORTANT EVENTS DURING EDDRP IMPLEMENTATION                                                                               ..........................1................................... I
FIGURE 1: TERMS OF TRADE EFFECT ........................................................................................                                                                                 2
TABLE   1:  M ACROECONOM IC   INDICATORS   ...........................................................................   .......... 3
FIGURE 2: NOMINAL EXCHANGE RATE . ........................................................................................ 6
FIGURE 3: EFFECTIVE NoMINAL AND REAL EXCHANGE RATE INDICES ...............                                                                                          ..................................... 7
STATISTICAL ANNEX
TABLE 2: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS . ........................................................................................ 18
TABLE  3:   RELATED   BANK   LOANS/CREDITS  ..................................................................................... ... 20
TABLE  4:  PROJECT  TIMETABLE   ......................                                                  .............................................................. .                           .. 21
TABLE 5: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............................... ........ 21
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................                                                                             .................................. ........ 22
TABLE 7: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION . ............................................................................ 23
TABLE  8:  STUDIES  INCLUDED   IN  PROJECT                                            ........................................................................................ 24
TABLE 9: IDA FINANCED PROJECT COSTS .......................................................................                                                                                            26
TABLE   IO:  PROJECT  FiNANCING  .......................................................................                                                                                               26
TABLE II: STATUSOFLEGALCOVENANTS .......................................................................                                                                                               27
TABLE12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .......................................................................                                                                                          28
Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ........................................................................                                                                                            28
ANNEX: COMMENTS BY AGENCIES OF GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI AND
CO-FINANCIERS .................................................................                                                                                                                         29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i                              Summary
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND DROUGHT
RECOVERY PROGRAM
CREDIT 2396-MAI
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Malawi
Entrepreneurship Development and Drought Recovery Program (EDDRP), for which
Credit 2396-MAI in the amount of SDR 85.4 million equivalent was approved on June 23,
1992 and made effective on July 7, 1992. The First Tranche of the Credit (SDR 57
million) was disbursed upon effectiveness. The release of the Second Tranche (SDR 28
million) was approved by IDA  in September 1993.  A  Supplemental Financing
Arrangement of SDR 27.6 million was approved by IDA in November 1994. IDA Reflows
in the amounts of SDR 4.3 million, SDR 3.1 million and SDR 3.2 million were allocated to
the Credit in 1993, 1994 and 1995, respectively.
The Credit was closed on March 31, 1996, 18 months after the originally
envisioned closing date to accommodate disbursement of the Supplemental Financing
Arrangement. Cofinancing and parallel financing were provided by the Government of
Japan (US$70.0 million equivalent), the European Union (US$39.3 million equivalent), the
Government of Germany (US$10.5 million equivalent), the Government of Switzerland
(US$1.7 million equivalent), and the African Development Fund (US$14.0 million
equivalent). A satisfactory performance under the EDDRP led to the preparation of a
follow-up adjustment operation, the Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program
(FRDP) which deepens and strengthens policy reforms that were initiated under the
EDDRP.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Hart Schafer, Senior Country Economist,
Macro, Industry, and Finance Division of the Southern Africa Department and comprised
of Ashok Chakravarti (Consultant), and Horst Goemann (Summer Assistant). The draft
ICR was reviewed by Barbara Kafka (Country Director) and Gene Tidrick (Lead
Economist. Ahmad Ahsan (Country Economist) processed the ICR in the final stage.
Different agencies of the Government of Malawi, the borrower, and a cofinancier
(Government of Switzerland) provided comments that are included in the Annex to the
ICR. Comments have been sent from Malawi by the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, Ministry of Labor and Manpower, Malawi Investment Promotion
Agency, and the Malawi Savings Bank. Preparation of the ICR was begun during the
IDA's final supervision/completion mission, May 13-24, 1996, and is based on material in
the project file and findings of the completion mission.



Summary                              ii
The Task Managers for the EDDRP were Kathy Krumm during Preparation and through
Board Presentation and Hart Schafer during Implementation. Ataman Aksoy is the
Technical Manager in charge and Barbara Kafka is the Country Director for Malawi.



iii                            Summary
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND DROUGHT
RECOVERY PROGRAM
CREDIT 2396-MAI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Background. The implementation of the EDDRP, the 6th adjustment operation for
Malawi, coincided with both the country's political transition from 30 years of one-party
rule to a multiparty democracy and a series of external shocks (including three droughts in
four years, substantial terms-of-trade losses, and suspension of non-humanitarian aid by
bilateral donors and the European Union). The EDDRP effectively became a holding
operation to keep the economy on track during a prolonged macroeconomic crisis which
was, at least in part, the result of these exogenous shocks and Malawi's political transition.
During fiscal 1995/96, the final year of the EDDRP's implementation, the first phase of
macroeconomic stabilization was attained after the Government introduced a cash budget,
stricter expenditure controls, and strengthened foreign reserve management in the context
of a liberalized exchange rate.
2.    Despite the Government's preoccupation with the political transition process and
the macroeconomic crisis, the overall implementation of structural policies under the
EDDRP was satisfactory. On balance, the program objectives have been achieved - albeit
with substantial delay and only as a result of further strengthening and expanding the
policy agenda after the new Government took office in May 1994. With the establishment
of macroeconomic stability within the context of a much more open and liberalized
environment, the beginning of a significant private sector supply response is emerging in
the smallholder agricultural sector. A more pronounced supply response in the non-
agricultural sector is expected to gain momentum as nominal interest rates and inflation
rates decline further.
3.    Program Objectives. The objectives of the EDDRP were to broaden economic
participation, to enable a sustainable supply response, and to prevent widespread starvation
as a result of severe drought through a set of mutually reinforcing policy measures in the
following areas:
* Improvement of the environment for entrepreneurial activity and investment in
labor-intensive activities;
* Expansion of access to financial capital and deepening of financial markets;
* Reorientation of fiscal and labor policy towards human capital development; and
* Procurement of commercial maize imports.
4.    Implementation Experience and Results. The EDDRP helped establish the legal
basis (1992 Investment Promotion Act) and the institutional capacity for a broad range of



Summary                            iv
incentives to support investment activity, including establishment of the Malawi
Investment Promotion Agency (MIPA).  According to investors, MIPA's direct
involvement on behalf of investors actually results in a speedier and more efficient
investment process and therefore it is easier today to set up a business in Malawi than it
was 5 years ago. However, despite the good progress, substantial work remains in the area
of investment promotion to make the approval process more transparent and automatic.
5.    Support to the small and micro-enterprise (SME) sector, one area of interest to the
EDDRP, remains fragmented and insufficient. Although SEDOM and INDEFUND have
moved to charge market related interest rates, credit to the informal sector and SMEs
remains restricted. The supporting institutions (SEDOM, DEMATT, MEDI, MIPA,
MEPC, INDEFUND) who provide training, or credit, or facilitate investment for SMEs
(with some trying to provide all three support functions) are highly inefficient - lacking
coordination and complementarity. The Government was unable to carry out a review of
these institutions with a view to merge where appropriate and to close those that were not
viable or not effective. Consequently, the proliferation of support institutions involved in
the SME sector still needs review and steps will also need to be taken for consolidation and
rationalization of these institutions in order to develop a comprehensive strategy for
developing SMEs.
6.    During implementation of the EDDRP, Malawi achieved a degree of economic
openness that went beyond the targets set out under the program. Malawi's indirect tax
system has been rationalized to a considerable extent. Surtax on domestic production and
imports were harmonized in 1993 and maximum tariff rates were reduced from about
100% to 40%. A market determined foreign exchange system was implemented in
February 1994 which is one the most significant achievements under the EDDRP. In the
long run it will have an impact on external competitiveness and export diversification.
7.    The RBM has achieved the objectives of more market-oriented monetary control
and has broadened the range of monetary instruments. Under the EDDRP, the RBM
switched from issuing RBM Bills to periodic 90-day T-Bill auctions in 1994.
Subsequently the RBM improved its open market operations with the introduction of 30-,
61-, 182-, and 271-day T-Bills and more frequent auctions.
8.    The RBM's strategy to foster competition in the banking sector has centered around
promoting the entry of new banks. Three new retail banks entered the sector in Malawi
over the past three years and have already had an important catalytic effect in unleashing
banking competition. While the EDDRP conditions were met with regard to restructuring
of the Post Office Savings Bank, further progress has been extremely slow. However,
comments by the management of the Malawi Savings Bank on this ICR, presented in the
annex, suggest that there has been some progress in recent months.
9.    The GOM's pro-poor policies were significantly advanced under the EDDRP. The
objective of increasing nominal and relative expenditure allocations to the social sectors
such as education (in particular primary education), health, and rural infrastructure were all
achieved. In order to benefit the rural population - who account for almost 90 percent of
the poor - the EDDRP has helped remove binding constraints to smallholder agricultural



v                             Summary
activities, including the removal of ADMARC's monopsonistic position, production
constraints on smallholder burley tobacco, and entry barriers for private traders in the
markets for agricultural produce and inputs.
10.   The objective of the drought recovery component of the EDDRP was to help close
the unanticipated drought-related external financing gaps in 1992/93 and 1994/95 and help
ensure that external funding levels were adequate for drought-related imports to achieve
food security, prevent cuts in priority social sector expenditures, and help stabilize
commercial maize prices by augmenting the limited domestic supply through imports.
IDA funds equivalent to about US$70 million were used to finance 148,000 MT and
100,000 MT of commercial maize imports in 1992/93 and 1994/95, respectively. The
procurement of adequate quantities of commercial maize was a critical element in the
Government's efforts to (a) stabilize consumer prices at affordable levels so that free maize
distribution could be targeted only as a last resort for assisting the very poor, and (b) to
remain on the adjustment track.
11.   Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned. Based on
IDA's ex-post evaluation norms, the outcome of the EDDRP is classified as overall
"satisfactory".  This assessment is based on the following elements: (a) the GOM
implemented its structural policy agenda - with very few exemptions - and stayed on the
adjustment track despite experiencing a series of exogenous shocks and going through a
period of major political transition; (b) in several areas implementation of policy reforms
went beyond measures agreed to under the EDDRP, and the adjustment agenda was fitted
to the evolving macroeconomic situation and the new political dispensation; (c) today
Malawi's economy is more open than ever before; (d) the domestic markets have been
liberalized; (e) the macroeconomic situation has been turned around and key
macroeconomic fundamentals have been put in place; and (f) the policy agenda is being
deepened under the follow-up FRDP. Achievements on the ground combined with further
deepening of policies under the FRDP are likely to result in a substantial supply response
and increased equity in the economy.
* Lesson #1: With strong Government commitment a country can stay on the
adjustment course despite large unanticipated external shocks. The fact that Malawi
stayed on the adjustment course, recovered from continuous macroeconomic crises
and exogenous shocks, and even accelerated structural reforms is almost exclusively
attributable to strong Government commitment during the latter part of EDDRP
implementation. By the same token, the EDDRP would have failed without the sea
change in ownership and commitment under the new GOM. Moving ahead with this
operation in 1992 was a risky undertaking in view of the previous regime's reluctance
to commit to major structural reforms in the economy.
* Lesson #2: Adjustment in countries with extremely low income levels - like Malawi -
is a long-term process and will continue into the next decade.
* Lesson #3: Cross-conditionality with other IDA projects resulted in "marginalizing"
some objectives and created supervision problems.
*  Lesson #4: Flexibility in the design and implementation of the program to respond to
new information or emerging problems during implementation is criticalfor success.



Summary                                vi
* Lesson #5: Irreversible up-front actions enhance prospects for successful
implementation.
*  Lesson #6: Timely BOP support to address natural disasters can be extremely
important for keeping the overall adjustment program on track



I                             Main Report
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND DROUGHT
RECOVERY PROGRAM
CREDIT 2396-MAI
BACKGROUND
1.    The Government of Malawi   Box 1: Important Events during EDDRP
(GOM)  implemented  the  policies                 Implementation
supported under the EDDRP - the sixth
Negotiations        *     February 1992
Bank supported adjustment operation   CG Meeting         C*     May 1992
since 1981; under this operation a wide   Board Presentation    June 1992
range  of structural reforms  were   Drought                    Crop of 1992
implemented. However, partly due to   Multiparty Referendum   *  June 1993
the exogenous shocks that coincided   Release of 2nd Tranche  *  September 1993
with the EDDRP (three droughts in   Drought                     Crop of 1994
four years and terms-of-trade shocks   Multiparty Elections     May 1994
led to losses in income equivalent to   EDDRP Supplement    ¢   November 1994
more than 25% of GDP) the envisioned   Drought                  Crop of 1995
Closing      ¢    ~~~March 1996
supply response remained elusive. The   Closing
EDDRP effectively became a holding
operation to keep the economy on track while it absorbed these exogenous shocks, and
faced the uncertainty during Malawi's political transition from 30 years of one-party rule
to a multiparty democracy (Box 1).
2.    At the May 1992 Consultative Group meeting (CG), bilateral donors and the
European Union (EU) made new non-humanitarian aid conditional on tangible and
irreversible transformation in the way Malawi approaches governance and human rights
issues. Following the CG, IDA's Board decided to move ahead with the EDDRP to: (a)
provide urgently needed foreign exchange to enable the GOM to import maize and help
avoid widespread starvation in the wake of the most severe regional drought in Malawi's
history; (b) offset the foreign exchange loss due to a significant decline of Malawi's
terms-of-trade; and (c) provide a minimum level of financial support to prevent the
economy from collapsing, and facilitate a smooth political transition process.
3.    During the first year of the EDDRP's implementation, Malawi's economic and
financial situation deteriorated rapidly. In 1992, following several years of
macroeconomic stability and positive per capita growth, Malawi's economy contracted
by more than 7% due to: (a) the impact of the drought throughout Southern Africa; (b) the
withdrawal of new non-humanitarian aid by bilateral donors and the EU; and (c) terms-



Main Report                          2
of-trade losses equivalent to US$100
million. Despite this economic setback,    MIRMZiS
Malawi  managed  to  implement             199  19M   M   im   19"  19M
structural reforms as planned  and     0
carried out a referendum that endorsed     **
the move to multiparty democracy by a  -10
margin of 2-to-1. In the fall of 1993,    415                         -19
following the significant progress in      f21A
governance  issues,  several  donors
started to resume new non-humanitarian
aid which helped sustain the adjustment  a      .31        -37
process and close the external financing  W-
gap. IDA released the Second Tranche  4
of the EDDRP in September 1993
following the GOM's action to correct    Figure 1: Terms of Trade Effect
macroeconomic     policies    and
satisfactory implementation of all prior
actions for release of the Second Tranche.
4.    Economic recovery from  the drought took longer than anticipated.  Full
resumption of donor support was only achieved in 1995.  The macroeconomic
deterioration continued beyond the country's first democratic elections in May 1994.
Fiscal expenditures related to the referendum and national elections resulted in excessive
borrowing from the banking system and -- combined with revenue shortfalls -- a large
fiscal deficit in FY94/95. On top of this, immediately after taking office, the new GOM's
macroeconomic management was challenged by (a) a series of civil service strikes; (b)
the financing requirements to hire some 19,000 additional teachers and provide textbooks
to implement the GOM's universal free primary education policy; (c) an unexpectedly
sharp depreciation (by 100% in October-November 1994) in the value of the Malawi
Kwacha which had been floated in February 1994; and (d) another major drought (the
second within three years) which prompted the preparation of the US$40 million
Supplemental Financing Arrangement under the EDDRP to enable the GOM to import
commercial maize and help achieve food security and price stabilization.
5.    The new GOM was forced to take drastic and politically difficult fiscal and
monetary measures to contain the macroeconomic crisis. Despite initial difficulties in
effectively controlling expenditures, the GOM gradually achieved control over
expenditures in mid-1995. Since April 1995, public expenditures have been controlled
under a cash budgeting system. Aggressive auctioning of T-Bills has helped mop up
excess liquidity. Management of the liberalized exchange system was strengthened. The
RBM purchased and, later on, sold, substantial amounts of foreign exchange on the
interbank market which has helped to stabilize the nominal exchange rate at around
MKl5/US$1 since December 1994. The annualized quarterly inflation rates decreased
from 185% to 40% between January 1995 and March 1996. The expected inflation rate



3                                  Main Report
for end-1996 now stands at 4%. The improvements in economic performance led to the
agreement of a three-year program under the IMF's Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (October 1995), the 6th and 7th PFPs (issued in October 1995 and November
1996 respectively), and the approval by IDA of the follow-up adjustment operation, the
Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program (FRDP) approved in April 1996.
PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
6.     The objectives of the EDDRP were to broaden economic participation and
enable a sustainable supply response and prevent widespread starvation as result of
severe drought through a set of mutually reinforcing policy measures in the following
areas:
. Improvement of the environment for entrepreneurial activity and investment in
labor-intensive activities;
* Expansion of access to financial capital and deepening of financial markets;
* Reorientation of fiscal and labor policy towards human capital development; and
- Reduction of the impact of severe drought.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
Macroeconomic Performance
7.     Across the board, macroeconomic targets were not achieved and major fiscal and
monetary indicators deteriorated through 1994 despite successive agreements with the
IMF and Bank on further fiscal and monetary tightening (Table 1). In part, this was
probably due to too optimistic assumptions at the appraisal time.  But more so, the
Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators
1992          1993         1994          1995
in %              Proj.  Act.   Proj.  Act.   Proj. Act.   Proj.  Act.
GDP Growth                     -4.0   -7.3    8.0    9.7   4.5  -10.2   4.5    9.5
Change in CPI                   13.4   23.2    5.0   22.8   5.0   34.7   5.0   83.1
Private Investment/GDP          12.9   12.9   13.9   8.2  13.9    7.0  13.9   8.7
Fiscal Deficit incl. Grants/GDPI  3.5   12.1    2.9    5.4   2.2   17.0   2.0    5.7
Current Account Balance/GDP2   -17.0  -18.1  -10.3  -15.3   7.1  -17.8  -6.0  -14.1
Proj.: Projected Values in 1992; Act.: Actual outcome; Source: Staff Estimates.
I Includes all fixed and inventory investments by private sector and commercial parastatals.
2 On a fiscal year basis. For example 1992 is 1992/93, and so on.



Main Report                          4
persistent macroeconomic crisis was clearly the result of both a series of severe
exogenous shocks that were not under the control of the GOM and inability of the GOM
to appropriately address the deterioration in fiscal performance in a timely manner.
Initial macroeconomic stabilization was only achieved after the 1995 introduction of a
cash budget, stricter fiscal controls, and foreign reserve management by the RBM in the
context of a liberalized exchange rate. While the macroeconomic situation remains
fragile, the recent economic turnaround can be sustained if the GOM further strengthens
its public expenditure controls, reduces its domestic debt stock, and facilitates further
reduction in interest rates.
8.    One of the main objectives of the EDDRP, a significant private sector supply
response, remained elusive because of (a) the uncertainties associated with the political
transition process, and (b) exogenous shocks, and macroeconomic crisis that existed
during most of the period of EDDRP's implementation. Only since late 1995, has private
sector confidence in the economy started to pick up on account of sufficient foreign
exchange reserves, the fiscal stabilization, and good crop prospects for 1996. The
Government's announcement of a broad-based privatization program and a substantial
decline in inflation rates followed by the decline in market interest rates provide
investment opportunities for foreign and domestic investors.
Structural Reforms
9.    Despite the preoccupation of the GOM with the political transition process and
the macroeconomic crisis, the overall implementation of structural policies under the
EDDRP was satisfactory. On balance the program objectives have been achieved -
albeit with substantial delay and only as the result of further deepening of the policy
reform agenda after the new Government took office in May 1994.
Enhancement of the investment environment and labor-intensive activities
10.   Investment Climate. The 1992 Investment Promotion Act (Board Condition)
provides the policy basis and a broad range of incentives to support investment activity.
Under this act, the Malawi Investment Promotion Act (MIPA) was established as a focal
point for dialogue with the private sector and to give a clear signal of Government's
commitment to solving problems arising out of the investment process. All industrial
licenses were eliminated with the exception of only a short list of environmentally
hazardous activities. The incorporation process of companies was reduced to a statutory
limit of 15 days. (The comments of the MIPA in the annex provides further details of the
liberalization of investment regulations and MIPA's activities). MIPA is now fully
staffed and during 1994 it responded to 96 investors with project inquiries, of which 6
projects materialized. MIPA's activities increased in 1995, with 153 inquiries resulting
in 5 projects. Following advice by Bank supervision missions, MIPA is slowly gaining
political support vis-a-vis those government ministries and departments that are involved



5                            Main Report
in the investment approval process. According to investors, now MIPA's direct
involvement on behalf of investors has generally resulted in a speedier and more efficient
investment process, and therefore it is easier today to set up a business in Malawi than it
was 5 years ago. In early 1996, as a further measure to facilitate export growth, the
Export Processing Zone (EPZ) Act was passed to provide an additional incentives
package for export oriented production. Despite the good progress, substantial additional
political support for investment promotion is necessary to make the approval process
more transparent and automatic.
11.   For years the lack of serviced and unserviced industrial sites was a significant
obstacle to private investment. A combination of recent public and private activities has
alleviated the shortage of industrial land. In Lilongwe, the Ministry of Lands and
Valuations is preparing 200 plots for investors in an area of some 80 hectares on public
lands; the plots are available under an accelerated lease procedure that should take only a
week from application to preliminary approval. In addition, the GOM is making
available to investors over 300 unserviced plots in two areas near Lilongwe. In Blantyre,
two industrial sites (90 ha and 150 ha) have been rezoned and surveyed for serviced and
unserviced industrial sites. Under the piloting of private sector participation in the
development of industrial sites, a private industrial estate (110 serviced plots on 100 ha)
has recently opened in Blantyre.
12.   Promotion of Small and Micro-Enterprises. In order to increase participation
of local manufacturers, particularly small and micro-enterprises (SME), and to reduce the
bias vis-a-vis imports in government procurement, GOM introduced in 1993/94 a duty
draw-back and rebate of surtax on government direct local purchases. The GOM had
committed itself under EDDRP to review all restrictive legislation affecting informal
sector activities. However, this review was not undertaken.
13.   SEDOM and INDEFUND have moved to charge market related interest rates and
both institutions have improved their performance. Nevertheless, credit to the informal
sector and SMEs remains restricted. In 1995, the GOM introduced a subsidized line of
credit for SMEs which is administered through non-financial organizations and NGOs.
This has exacerbated the problems of credit recovery and efficient allocation of scarce
credit resources. Some SME supporting institutions have been active in reaching specific
target groups and providing viable services. The SME Support Fund, for instance, has
played a role in training entrepreneurs (see comments by Ministry of Commerce and
Industry in the annex in this regard). However, the proliferation of supporting institutions
(SEDOM, DEMATT, MEDI, MIPA, MEPC, INDEFUND) that provide training, or
credit, or facilitate investment for SMEs - with some trying to provide all three support
functions - is inefficient as it lacks coordination and complementarity. The GOM was
unable to carry out a review of these institutions such that it would enable merging of
these institutions where appropriate, and closing those that were not viable or effective.
Thus the review of the SME support institutions and the preparation of a coherent SME



Main Report                         6
strategy still need to be carried out based on consultations with donor agencies that
provide support to SMEs.
14.   External Sector Policies.  During implementation of the EDDRP Malawi
achieved a degree of economic openness that went beyond the targets set out under the
EDDRP. Surtax rates (effectively a value-added tax collected at the production stage) on
domestic production and imports were harmonized in 1993. Ad valorem excise taxes on
luxury goods (imports and domestic goods) were introduced in 1994 and 1995.
Maximum tariff rates were reduced from about 100% to 40%; average rates dropped to
around 15% over the same period. In FY95/96, the GOM introduced a temporary 10%
export tax on tobacco, tea, and sugar, which was reduced to 8% in 1996/97 and will be
phased out within two years as revenue collection is strengthened.
15.  Implementation  of a market
determined foreign exchange system is                                16.3
among   the    most   significant
achievements under the EDDRP and              MK PER 1 US$
should  have  a  significant positive                             .7.
impact on external competitiveness,
export growth and   diversification.
Floatation of the Kwacha eliminated a                    3.58
2.56  2.75  2.75  2.79 i   l l lE
system of formal and informal rationing  2   2   2   2.76
of foreign exchange. that was deterring  168  1   19  1   9    3  1   19
private investment. Between 1992 and
1994, Malawi continued its policy of    Figure 2: Nominal Exchange Rate
periodic discrete devaluation of the
Kwacha (by 15% in March 1992 and
22% in July 1992) to enhance external competitiveness and alleviate demand pressures on
its foreign exchange reserves (Figure 3). However, because of almost parallel domestic
price increases the GOM's exchange rate policy proved ineffective, demand for foreign
exchange continued to exceed supply, and arrears on import bills accumulated to the
equivalent of 3 months of imports in late 1993. Frustrated by repeated ineffective
discrete devaluations and in view of the highly overvalued Kwacha, the GOM was forced
to take bolder action and floated the currency in February 1994. Pent-up demand for
foreign exchange combined with private sector speculation that the liberalization might
not be sustained resulted in an initial drop from MK4.3/US$1 to about MK7.0/US$1. A
foreign exchange crisis developed about 6 months after the floatation with the end of the
seasonal inflow of foreign exchange from tobacco sales and was compounded by
speculative demand for foreign exchange. As a result, within two weeks the Kwacha
value fell from MK7/US$1 to MK15 tUS$1; this represented exchange rate overshooting
as the magnitude of the depreciation in 1994 was larger than what would have been
appropriate on the basis of inflation differentials between Malawi and her major trading
partners (Figure 4) and what was known of the black market premium on foreign
exchange. With hindsight, the timing of the floatation of the Kwacha -- supported by



7                            Main Report
Bank  advice  -- may  have  been                  .
inappropriate as foreign reserve levels    1W
were insufficient to satisfy both pent-up    120
demand  for foreign  exchange  and    10                       --
payment of arrears on import bills. In
addition, rules and procedures that
governed  the  liberalized  exchange                           \
system were incomplete, and loop-holes    40 --        -
in the system were only corrected with    20-
long delays (such as the absence of    o I
foreign exchange exposure limits or the  188 19   I   1M   1S2 103 198 IM
lack of mandatory conversion rules for
a  fracion  o   foregn  exhange Figure 3: Effective Nominal and Real
a  fraction  of  foreign  exchangeExhneRtIdis
revenues).  The   RBM's  reserve                 Exchange Rate Indices
management was deficient as they                (TradeWeighted)
failed to intervene in the exchange
market and smoothen the strong seasonality of foreign exchange inflows.
16.   Since December 1994, the nominal exchange rate has been stable at around
MK15/US$ 1. The RBM, aided by tobacco earnings, accumulated official reserves
equivalent to nearly 4 months of imports by end-1995. While a stable nominal exchange
rate has contributed to the recent overall macroeconomic stabilization, it is now important
for the RBM to focus on maintaining external competitiveness and incentives for private
investment in export oriented labor-intensive activities.
Deepening of Financial Markets
17.   Monetary Control and Interest Rate Management. The RBM has achieved the
objectives of more market-oriented monetary control and has broadened the range of
monetary instruments. Under the EDDRP, the RBM switched from issuing RBM Bills to
periodic 90-day T-Bill auctions in 1994. Subsequently the RBM improved its open
market operations with the introduction of 30-, 61-, 182-, and 271-day T-Bills and more
frequent auctions. An increasing proportion of T-Bills are sold to the non-banking sector.
With a gradual increase in the discount rate from 20% in 1992 to 50% in 1995 and the
increase in reserve requirements, the RBM succeeded in mopping up excess liquidity
which helped bring down monetary growth in 1995. However, the need to finance a large
fiscal deficit through T-Bills has become a problem as domestic debt charges have
skyrocketed from less than 10% of recurrent expenditures in 1993 to about 25% in 1996.
By the same token, the prevailing high nominal interest rates rendered many investments
unprofitable - especially compared to the attractive yields on T-Bills. Containing the
fiscal deficit and reducing the stock of domestic debt has become the top priority for the
GOM to bring down inflation and interest rates in order to achieve a more pronounced
supply response.



Main Report                          8
18.   Entry into Banking activities: The RBM's strategy to foster competition in the
banking market has centered around promoting the entry of new banks. Of the 7
applications received since 1992, three have been approved. As a result of this,
INDEFINANCE started its retail banking operations in 1993, and two new banks, the
First Merchant Bank and the Finance Bank, started operations in early 1996. While still
relatively small operations with limited impact on the commercial lending market, the
three new banks have already had an important catalytic effect in unleashing banking
competition through: (a) paying interest on current accounts; (b) offering 7-day call
deposits; and (c) extending business hours, and (d) reducing costs of many transactions
including Foreign Exchange, Travelers' Checks, and Bank Drafts. Differing interest rates
between commercial banks (something that was unheard of in Malawi only three years
ago) are evidence of increased competition.
19.   The restructuring of the Post Office Savings Bank was planned to improve access
to financial services for small savers. In June 1993 through an Act of Parliament, the
legal separation of banking from postal services took place and the Malawi Savings Bank
(MSB) was created (Second Tranche Condition). While the EDDRP conditions were
met, further progress has been extremely slow. In particular, the progress made with
regard to account reconciliation has been slow as the infrastructure and capacity in place
are not sufficient to perform basic deposit-taking functions and accounts are again out of
date and inaccurate. On an overall basis, the objectives with regard to the MSB have not
been achieved, and it would be prudent to prevent MSB from embarking on any retail
banking activities under the present circumstances. However, the comments by the
management of the MSB on this ICR, presented in the annex, suggest that there has been
some progress in institutional development in recent months.
20.  Capital Market Development. Some progress has been made with regard to
capital market development. The Malawi Stock Exchange was established in early 1995.
In its first year of operation it has focused on finalizing listing requirements and dealing
in the secondary T-Bill market. Total transactions are equivalent to 25% of the stock of
T-Bills until recently. Until recently no private companies were listed, mainly because of
high capital costs and the profitable alternative of investing in T-Bills which yielded
about 50% return per annum until a few months ago. A major impetus for the stock
market is expected with declining interest rates; there is considerable interest in listing in
the Malawi Stock Exchange by insurance companies, commercial banks, Press
Corporation, and the State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) that are to be privatized.
Reorienting offiscal and labor policy
21.   Reallocation of Public Expenditure. The GOM has achieved the objective of
increasing the share of expenditure allocations to the social sectors such as education (in
particular primary education), health, and rural infrastructure. The total expenditure share
to education has increased significantly over the period of the Credit, and the EDDRP
target of 15.5% has been exceeded. The increase in allocations from the recurrent budget



9                            Main Report
to the health sector was in line with the EDDRP targets. However, actual expenditures by
the Ministry of Health have tended to be lower than the budgetary allocations due to the
problems related to implementation capacity. As part of the GOM's emphasis on
peripheral health services, expenditures on these services have been increased from
13.5% of sectoral recurrent expenditures in 1990/91 to 15.7% in 1993/94, and about 20%
in 1994/95, thereby meeting the objectives of the EDDRP. However, most of the
increase in social sector expenditures stems from the increase in civil service salaries and
higher employment (mainly of teachers) in education. There remains, therefore, scope
for: (i) increasing the efficiency of social sector spending; (ii) intrasectoral reallocation
from tertiary services to prinmary services to better reach the poor; and (iii) reallocation
from wages and salaries to goods and services.
22.   Broadening the Tax Base. To enhance the efficiency of the surtax system and to
compensate for revenue losses resulting from tariff reductions, the GOM first harmonized
the surtax on imports and domestic production and later expanded the surtax base by
including most previously exempt raw materials and professional services and the hotel
and restaurant sector. Since 1992, the surtax structure has been substantially simplified
and the base rate has been gradually reduced from a 10 tier system with a maximum rate
of 85% to a four tier system: 20%, 10%, 0%, and exempt. Similarly, marginal income
and corporate tax rates were reduced from 45% in 1990/91 to 40% in 1991/92 and 35% in
1992/93 and the poll tax was removed in 1993/94.
23.   Development of Labor Markets.  Based on the review of labor market
imperfections and policy options for improved labor market functioning (Labor Market
and Wage Policy Study; Second Tranche Condition) a number of additional policy
measures were incorporated in the EDDRP policy agenda at the time of the Second
Tranche release:
* Minimum Wage: Malawi's complex minimum wage structure was revised. A
simplified 2 level structure for urban and rural wages was introduced in 1994, with a
trigger mechanism to allow for frequent review of minimum wages. As envisioned in
the Labor Market and Wage Policy Study, the significance of the minimum wage has
declined as: (a) decentralized collective bargaining within the liberalized political
framework has, at least in the urban areas, become the mechanism for setting wage
levels (please see comments on this topic provided by the Ministry of Labor and
Manpower in the annex of this ICR); and (b) Government salary scales are a major
benchmark for clerical and casual labor.
* Rural Economic Activity: A major constraint to increasing wages and returns to
labor in the rural areas was the large supply of unskilled labor and lack of alternative
profitable employment opportunities. The Labor Market and Wage Policy Study
concluded that rural economic activities would need to be stimulated through the
acceleration of the smallholder sector's access to cash crops (in particular, burley
tobacco), speedy liberalization of agricultural prices and markets, and elimination of



Main Report                         10
ADMARC's monopsonistic position. Consequently, during 1994/95 a burley quota
of 15,000 MT was allocated to 66,000 smallholder households. The quota was
increased to 50,000 MT allocated to 100,000 households in 1995/96 and will be
completely lifted in 1996/97; the access to burley tobacco production is
conservatively expected to inject more than US$ 50 million into the smallholder
sector. In addition, in 1993, agricultural prices were liberalized for all smallholder
crops but maize. Even with regard to maize, in 1994, fixed producer and consumer
prices were replaced by a price band which allows the price to fluctuate according to
supply and demand conditions. These measures have brought about significant
competition between private traders (over 500 registered for seasonal credits in
1995/96)and ADMARC. With more profitable prices for alternative smallholder
crops, agricultural diversification away from maize and tobacco into other food crops
reached the nutritional equivalent of 100,000 MT of maize in 1995/96. These
measures may have more significant and sustainable impact on the Malawian
economy than any other measure to date.
- Protection of Tenants: A draft bill for the protection of tenants on estates has been
passed by the Cabinet and is presently being drafted into law by the Ministry of
Justice. Effectiveness of this measure was postponed by several years because of
capacity constraints within the GOM and the difficulties in reaching consensus among
the Ministries involved. In the meantime, actual developments on the ground have
overtaken the targets and objectives of the EDDRP. The combined effects of: (a)
liberalization of agricultural and burley tobacco marketing, and, (b) the reduction in
the rural labor force (especially children and teenagers) resulting from higher primary
school enrollment, have improved the bargaining position of tenants who now - as
confirmed by field visits - receive larger shares of the auction price of tobacco.
Drought Component
24.   The objective of the drought recovery component of the EDDRP was to help close
the unanticipated drought-related external financing gap in 1992/93 and 1994/95 and help
ensure that external funding levels were adequate for drought-related imports to achieve
food security, prevent cuts in priority social sector expenditures, and help stabilize
commercial maize prices by augmenting limited domestic supply through imports.
25.  IDA funds equivalent to about US$70 million were used to finance 148,000 MT
and 100,000 MT of commercial maize imports in 1992/93 and 1994/95 respectively. The
procurement of adequate quantities of commercial maize was a critical element in the
GOM's efforts to: (a) stabilize consumer prices at affordable levels so that free maize
distribution could be targeted only as a last resort for assisting the very poor, and (b) to
remain on the adjustment track.  While the overall performance of this program
component is satisfactory, the tendering process for maize revealed significant
weaknesses within the GOM in administering the International Competitive Bidding
process and coming to closure on the award of the contract. Consequently, some 30,000



11                           Main Report
MT of yellow maize arrived in Malawi when the new 1993 white maize crop was already
available, and thus had to be sold at a deep discount.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
26.   Implementation of the EDDRP was affected by two categories of exogenous and
unanticipated factors that were outside the GOM's control:
* The political transition process initially hampered policy implementation because
policy makers and civil servants (and the donor community) were preoccupied with
governance and human rights issues. The political uncertainty translated into sagging
private sector confidence and a "wait-and-see" attitude of private investors which
contributed to the low investment ratios. The deterioration of fiscal discipline during
the months leading up to the elections, and the expenditures related to the referendum
and the elections, further undermined the macroeconomic stabilization process.
* Terms-of-trade losses and the impact of three droughts in four years not only left
a mark on Malawi's economy (equivalent to a 25% loss in GDP) but also forestalled
any significant entrepreneurial activities. De facto, economic management was
continuously in a crisis mode between 1992 and through 1995.
PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
27.   The recent macroeconomic stabilization is likely to be sustained and consolidated
during the current fiscal year if the GOM continues its tight fiscal and monetary stance.
The GOM will be able to retire a significant amount of domestic debt in 1996, alleviate
interest rate pressure, and bring down inflation. The first indications of such a course of
events has become evident in Malawi in the last quarter of this year as inflation rates
(expected to be around 4% at end- 1996) and interest rates have come down swiftly.
28.   Sustainability of all but a very few structural measures implemented under the
EDDRP is highly likely.
* Measures to improve the investment climate have been deepened with approval of the
EPZ legislation; and there are indications of an increase in investor confidence and
economic activity that should lead to a more sustained and diversified supply
response.
* The outward orientation of the economy is likely to be sustained and the risk of
backsliding by the GOM are marginal. It will be important to focus on the stability of
the real exchange rate (and avoid a situation where the Kwacha becomes overvalued
again) as an important catalyst for export growth, and an adequate foreign reserves



Main Report                         12
management when demand for foreign currency increases as nominal interest rates
decline and private sector activities in production and international trade pick up.
*  The progress with regard to promoting indirect monetary policy instruments, banking
competition, and capital markets development will be sustained with the support of
the private sector who regard these policy reforms as having created a more investor-
friendly environment.
*  Reallocation of public expenditure to the social sectors has been strengthened under
the follow-up adjustment operation (FRDP) and in the context of the Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework. The achievements of the past years are likely to be sustained
and expanded.
*  Tax and tariff policies are being deepened and strengthened under the FRDP and are
likely to be sustained.
*  Liberalized agricultural prices and markets have improved smallholders' income
levels and thus will be an important element to sustain the GOM's poverty alleviation
efforts.
29.   The areas which appear less sustainable are the MSB and support to SMEs.
Under current circumstances, it is advisable that MSB should not proceed with its
planned retail banking services until satisfactory progress is achieved in reconciling
customer accounts and developing adequate capacity and systems to perform deposit-
taking functions. Here again, it is worth noting that comments by the management of the
MSB on this ICR (and presented in the annex) suggest that there has been some progress
in these areas in recent months. In the case of MSE, the proliferation of support
institutions involved in the sector will need to be reconsidered and steps will need to be
taken with regard to consolidation and rationalization of these institutions in order to
develop a comprehensive sector strategy - with close coordination across the donor
community who provide support to SMEs.
30.  It is widely accepted within the GOM and the donor community that drought has
become a recurrent phenomenon.   Therefore, the GOM  is now  working on
comprehensive strategies for drought preparedness, agricultural diversification, and food
security. The focus is on introducing options which include private operation of the
Strategic Grain Reserve, dissemination of adequate technologies, and appropriate price
incentives. The donor community is supporting the GOM's efforts and will assist in
achieving a sustainable strategy.
IDA PERFORMANCE
31.  IDA 's performance during identification and preparation was satisfactory.
Preparation of the EDDRP took an extraordinarily long time largely due to impasse on
significant policy issues (such as tariff and trade policy; business licensing procedures;



13                           Main Report
and the Investment Promotion Act). Preappraisal and appraisal of the FY92 operation
were carried out in 1987 and 1990 respectively. IDA carried out several post-appraisal
missions to reach an acceptable policy package.
32.  IDA performance during appraisal and negotiations was deficient as the design
of the EDDRP (de facto completed during appraisal in 1990) did not explicitly include
any policy issues related to liberalization of smallholder agriculture. Originally, it was
assumed that the agricultural policy agenda would be dealt with under the preceding
adjustment operation, the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC). In the event,
during post-appraisal and at the time of Negotiations, liberalization of agricultural
markets and smallholder access to fair prices and cash crops had only been partially
achieved under the ASAC. Deepening of agricultural policies should have been a
component under the EDDRP from the outset, albeit the impasse with the GOM on these
issues under the ASAC combined with the lack of political commitment to liberalization
of smallholder agriculture, would have further postponed effectiveness of the EDDRP.
IDA took up these issues (and incorporated them in the Second Tranche) after the Labor
Market and Wage Policy Study had highlighted the importance of burley tobacco and
liberalization of smallholder prices for increasing smallholder and tenant income.
33.  IDA performance was satisfactory during supervision. Frequent IDA supervision
of the EDDRP was challenged by the diversity and magnitude of policy issues that were
to be implemented and the pre-occupation with macroeconomic crises and the impact of
exogenous shocks. In addition to following-up on the implementation of 18 Board
conditions, there were nine Second Tranche Conditions, and nine dated covenants under
the Credit. In hindsight, it may have been preferable to split the operation into two
operations, each covering a more manageable set of policy issues. In the event, a number
of policy objectives were "marginalized" (such as the establishment of an efficient MSB,
or support to SMEs) and were not achieved because the macroeoconomic crises and
management of recurrent drought required substantial supervision by IDA staff. The
supervision input by local staff in the Resident Mission was instrumental for moving
ahead with the structural reforms, especially with regard to agricultural issues and labor
market policy.
34.  IDA responded effectively to the drought of 1994/95 and processed, within only
seven staff weeks, a Supplemental Financing Arrangement which provided for timely
imports of commercial maize.
35.  IDA's advice was instrumental in designing the tax and tariff reforms; EDDRP
consultant funds were used to provide technical assistance to the Customs and Excise
Department.  A strengthened Pre-Shipment Inspection Scheme was financed with
consultant funds under the EDDRP. The Labor Market Study was funded with EDDRP
resources. Technical assistance and extensive supervision in the procurement of large
quantities of maize imports facilitated the timely delivery of food and resulted in savings
equivalent to 20% compared to maize procured by other donors in Malawi.



Main Report                          14
36.   Throughout the implementation of the EDDRP, IDA  focused on multiple
objectives. Chief among which was to help the GOM achieve progress on the structural
reform agenda and attain macroeconomic stability and recovery from recurrent drought,
withdrawal of non-humanitarian donor support, and terms-of-trade losses. In addition,
IDA functioned as an honest broker between the donors and the GOM during the political
transition process. Through the CG and SPA fora, IDA helped mobilize sufficient
external assistance to keep the adjustment program on track.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   Borrower performance  was  deficient during  preparation  and  initial
implementation. Preparation and implementation of the EDDRP between 1992-94 were
handicapped by a slow decision making process in the Government and lack of
ownership of the reform agenda. On paper, the GOM implemented all actions required
for release of the second tranche - thus complying with the legal conditions. Follow-up
and in-depth implementation, however, were weak. The GOM was reluctant to surrender
control of monetary policy to market forces or to accept the notion of increased
competition in the banking sector.  By the same token, the need to accelerate
liberalization of agricultural prices and markets and allow smallholders access to cash
crops was met with strong reluctance and little ownership as it threatened vested interests.
38.   Borrower performance was highly satisfactory during the final implementation
phase of the EDDRP. Since 1994, there has been a sea change with regard to policy
implementation. It became obvious that the GOM fully owned the reform agenda.
Policy implementation went beyond the agreements set under the EDDRP. In addition,
the GOM adopted - after initial difficulties in controlling expenditures - a tight fiscal and
monetary stance that brought about a satisfactory macroeconomic performance by the end
of the EDDRP implementation. In addition, the GOM moved ahead quickly with
agricultural liberalization.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   Based on IDA's ex-post evaluation norms, the outcome of the EDDRP is
classified as overall "satisfactory". This assessment is based on the following elements:
(a) the GOM implemented its structural policy agenda - with very few exceptions - and
stayed on the adjustment track despite experiencing a series of exogenous shocks and
going through a period of major political unrest; (b) in several areas, the EDDRP went
beyond the agreed measures and the adjustment agenda was fitted to the evolving
macroeconomic situation and the new political dispensation; (c) today Malawi's economy
is more open than ever before; (d) the domestic markets have been liberalized; (e) the
macroeconomic situation has been turned around and solid macroeconomic fundamentals
have been put in place; and (f) the policy agenda is being deepened under the follow-up
FRDP. Achievements on the ground combined with further deepening of policies under



15                           Main Report
the FRDP are likely to result in a substantial supply response and increased equity in the
economy.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
40.   Future operations are key to the sustainability of the achievements under the
EDDRP and to tackling the remaining issues of an unfinished adjustment agenda. This
critical phase in Malawi's emerging macroeconomic reform program is supported by the
FRDP, the follow-up to the EDDRP. The cornerstone of the FRDP is a far-ranging
overhaul of public expenditure planning and management, with a view to raising
allocations in pro-poor expenditure categories within agreed macroeconomic targets.
Specifically, the operation supports development of a Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework, comprehensive civil service reform, and further of tax and tariff reforms. In
addition, the FRDP focuses on policy measures that consolidate and expand the
participation of the poor in the full range of economic activities, including privatization,
access to agricultural land and land policy reform, and devolution of economic power in
the country.  With the institutional and policy framework in place, the Bank is
considering a private sector development project and an adjustment operation in the next
three years to deepen land policy and private sector regulatory reforms.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   Lesson #1: With strong Government commitment, a country can stay on the
adjustment course in spite of large unanticipated external shocks. The fact that
Malawi stayed on the adjustment course, recovered from continuous macroeconomic
crises, drought, and terms-of-trade shocks and even accelerated structural reforms is
almost exclusively attributable to strong Government commitment during the latter part
of EDDRP implementation (exchange rate liberalization, agricultural marketing and
pricing). By the same token, the EDDRP would have failed without the sea change in
ownership and commitment under the new GOM. Moving ahead with this operation in
1992 was a risky undertaking in view of the previous regime's reluctance to commit to
significant structural reforms in the economy.
42.   Lesson #2 Adjustment in countries with extremely low income levels - like
Malawi - is a long-term process and will continue well into the next decade.
Originally it was assumed that the EDDRP would be the last adjustment operation for
Malawi; it was assumed that under the previous regime, we would make no further
progress in the adjustment agenda beyond the EDDRP. Recent analytical work (e.g., the
Poverty Profile, the Agricultural Sector Memorandum, the Budget Management Review)
have revealed a long agenda of unfinished reforms. In combination with the new political
dispensation which allows a more rigorous approach to tackling structural issues, Malawi
is likely to implement adjustment reforms over another 5 to 8 years.



Main Report                          16
43.   Lesson #3:  Cross-conditionality with other IDA  projects resulted in
"marginalizing" some objectives and created supervision problems. The components
that were also supported by another IDA project (such as the Financial Services and
Enterprise Development Project) received less supervision attention than needed because
of "murky" supervision responsibilities.
44.   Lesson #4:  Flexibility in design and implementation of the adjustment
operation that enables quick response to new information or emerging problems is
critical for success. The credit did not have any link with the preceding ASAC. In
particular there was a glaring absence of policies and reforms in smallholder agriculture.
However, this deficiency was redressed - at IDA's urging - during implementation
following the completion of the Labor Market and Wage Policy Study.
45.   Lesson #5: Irreversible up-front actions enhance prospects for successful
implementation. The policy measures which required irreversible up-front actions -
such as Cabinet approval prior to Board approval - were successful under the EDDRP
(Capital Market Development, Trade and Tariff Reform). Those policies where political
approval had not been obtained prior to Board approval (e.g., laws governing estate
tenants; MSB) proved much more difficult to implement.
46.   Lesson #6: Timely BOP support to address natural disasters is instrumental
in keeping the overall adjustment program on track. IDA provided effective and
timely support to help alleviate the impact of the three droughts in four years. This
assistance was critical as it allowed the GOM to continue with a tight fiscal and monetary
stance and bring about macroeconomic stabilization despite large external shocks.



17                                                          Statistical Annex
STATISTICAL ANNEX
TABLE 2: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ........................................................... 18
TABLE 3: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..................                                                             ......................................... 20
TABLE 4: PROJECT TIMETABLE ........................................................... 21
TABLE 5: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ........................... 21
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......................................................  22
TABLE 7: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION  ...........................................................  23
TABLE 8: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ...........................................................                                                                          24
TABLE 9: IDA FINANCED PROJECT COSTS ........................................................... 26
TABLE 10: PROJECT FINANCING ........................................................... 26
TABLE  11: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...........................................................                                                                          27
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...........................................................                                                                        28
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ...........................................................                                                                            28



Statistical Annex                             18
Table 2: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substanl          Partial         Negligibli      Not appligabLe
(V)             (V)              (1)               (1/)
Macro Policies                      L               E3                                 LI
Sector Policies                     E3               0                                  L0
Financial Objectives                                El               LI
Institutional Development           [               I                LI
Physical Objectives                                 L                LI
Poverty Reduction                   L                                LI                121
Gender Issues                         1             I                LI
Other Social Objectives             L                                LI 0       
Environmental Objectives            5               L                LI
Public Sector Management            [                                I] 0]
Private Sector Development          n               E3                0]
Other (specify)                     L               L                LI
B. Project Sustainabilitv              likelv                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1)                       (/)                       (Ci)
(Continued)



19                               Statistical Annex
C. Bank Performan                       satisfactoy            Satisfactor                 Deficient
(1)()                                               (v')
Identification                      i                                                    IzC
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                           [ J                                                  E
Supervision                                                                             [0
Hiphlx
D. Borrower Performance                        satisfactorv    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                   jz              [J
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                           I                               Li
Operation (if applicable)                                     Li a
Hiehl                                              Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome               saisfactor    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
Li)                              Li)                 Li)(



Statistical Annex                                                           20
Table 3: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Title (Loan/credit                                                                                                Year of
*                       ~~~~~~~Purpose                                                       i       Status
Approval
Preceding operations
1. SALI 1                     Structural Adjustment Loan I                                                       FYI81               completed
(L2026-MAI)   + Diversify export base
Encourage efficient import substitution
Ensure appropriate price and income policy
Improve public sector's financial performance
Strengthen GOM's economic planning and
* i     monitoring capability
............................................................................................. .................................................................... .  . .. . ........................... . .................. .........................
2. SAL II                   iStructural Adjustment Loan                                                    i  FY 84                   completed 
(C1427-MAI) i * Diversif& export base
Encourage efficient import substitution
Ensure adequate incentives
i .     Improve public sector's financial performance
Strengthen policy-making capabilities
..................  ...................1          ..     ......................................
3. SAL III                    Structural Adjustment Loan III                                                      FY 86               completed
(     Diversify export base
(        Promote exports
i     Strengthen GOM's policy-making capabilities
i .     Improve performance of Development Institutions
....... ........ ..... .. ... ....           ............................................... ..................................    .. ..... .. ... ......4. ... ....... ... ...
3a. SAL III                 i Structural Adjustment Loan III (Supplem.)                                           FY 87               completed
Expand role of private sector in marketing of
Supplement i    smallholder crops
(CA0090-MAAI) i . Improve financial performance and operational
(CA0091-MAI)                   efficiency of ADMARC
Strengthen GOM's policy-making capability
...............................  ............ .....................  ii................................................................................ .. ... .  ........... ..... ; .. ... .... ... .. ...
4. ITPAC                       Industrial and Trade Adjustment Credit                                             FY 88               completed
C1920-MAI) i .   Improve policy environment for the manufacturing
sector to increase efficiency of resource use
including imports and expand exports
........................................ ...   ......................................................................................................   ...........   ......   .................. .  ...................................................................... 
5. ASAC                     E Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit                                              FY 90                completed
Increase efficiency and improve incomes of
(C2121-MA)  i                  smallholders, particularly smallholder ones
j     Increase efficiency of land use and protect
i       environment
*   Improve macroeconomic environment through
further import liberalization and public expenditure
i       and restructuring
Following Operations
1. FSEDP                      Financial Sector and Enterprise Development                                        FY 91                 effective
4     Improve the policy and institutional framework for
|_________________ i                  private sector investment, and export_growth                          i                      i
1. FRDP                       Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program                                      FY 96                 effective
(C2853-MAI)   i .              Fiscal restructuring in favor of social sectors
Deregulation to integrate smallholder farmers (who
account for 85%  of the poor) and a nascent private
sector in the mainstream of development



21                                              Statistical Annex
Table 4: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                                     Date Planned                      Date Actual/
.1 _________________ Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                 July 7, 1986                    July 7, 1986
...................................................................................................................   .................................................   .............................
Preparation                                                                July 6, 1987                    July 6, 1987
Appraisal                                                                  June 29, 1990                   June 29, 1990
...........   ............................................................................   ......................  ................................................................................... 
Negotiations                                                               Febr. 4, 1992                   Febr. 4, 1992
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)    N/A                                                        April 3, 1992
Board Presentation                                                         June 23, 1992                   June 23, 1992
Signing                                                                    July 2, 1992                    July 2, 1992
................................................................................................................... ................................................. ......................................................
Effectiveness                                                              Sept. 30, 1992                  July 7, 1992
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                                                                      July 7, 1992
Midterm review (if applicable)                                             N/A                            N/A
Second Tranche Release                                                     Sept. 23, 1993                  Sept. 23, 1993
................................................................................................................... ................................................. ......................................................
Project Completion                                                         June 30, 1994                   March 31, 1996
Loan Closing                                                               June 30, 1994                   March 31, 1996
Table 5: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY92   FY 93   FY 94   FY95   FY 96
Appraisal Estimate                                  0              120.0              120.0            120.0             120.0
Actual                                              0                87.7            130.5            172.8             175.3
Actual as % of Estimate                             0                73.1             108.8            144.0             146.1
Date of Final Disbursement                                                                                     June 30, 1996



Statistical Annex                           22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated')                   Actual
1992  1993   1994  1995  1992  1993   1994  1995
(Annual Percentage Change)
GDP Growth                          -4.0   8.0    4.5   4.5   -7.3  9.7  -10.2    9.5
CPI                                 13.5   5.0    5.0   5.0   23.2  22.8   34.7   83.1
(In percent unless otherwise specified)
Debt Service/Exports of G&S         20.8  16.9   16.1  15.8   24.9  24.6   23.7   22.5
Gross Investment/GDP                19.8  19.5   19.5  19.5   18.8  12.2   13.2   15.2
Private Invest./GDPa            12.9  13.9   13.9  13.9   12.9  8.2       7.0    8.7
National Saving/GDP                 11.5  11.9   12.5  13.5    6.7  1.1    4.0   11.3
Government Revenue/GDP              20.0  20.0   20.2  20.2   18.3  17.1   15.9   17.6
Government Expenditure/GDP          27.3  25.4   25.1  24.7   32.8  25.5   43.7   31.2
Fiscal Deficit incl. Grants/GDPb     3.5  2.9    2.2   2.0   12.1  5.4   17.0   5.7
Current Account excl. Grants /GDPC  -17.0 -10.3   -7.1  -6.0  -18.1 -15.3  -17.8  -14.1
(Millions of US$)
Gross Official External Reserves   159.4 189.9  201.9  237.0   47   54       37    106
1) At time of Board presentation.
a Includes changes in Stocks. Private investment includes fixed investment by private sector and
commercial parastatals and all inventory investment
b. Excluding grants.
c. Fiscal year basis.



23                             Statistical Annex
Table 7: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated')                    Actual
1992   1993   1994  1995   1992   1993   1994  1995
Sectoral Development                         (Share of GDP)
1. Agriculture                               N/A               29.7   44.7   33.9  37.3
2. Industry                                   N/A               27.5   22.5   25.6  24.4
| 3. Services                                 N/A               33.1   24.2   30.5  27.5
Government Revenues                          (In % of total revenues)
Direct taxes                     |1}869    870   N/A  N/A   |36.2   33.6   33.8  26.4
indirect taxes                    }8.       70 NANA             50.3   51.0   52.7  64.7
Nontax receipts                     13.1   13.0   N/A  N/A    13.5   15.4   13.6   8.9
Government Expenditures                      (In % of total expenditures)
Total recurrent expenditures       73.3   73.2   N/A  N/A    80.0   57.9   75.7  67.5
Wages and Salaries                19.5   20.7   N/A  N/A    18.4   18.9   23.7  16.6
Interest Payments                  9.7    8.2   N/A  N/A    10.5    9.4   12.4  11.7
Interest on external debt                      N/A  N/A      5.1    4.9    4.8   4.5
Interest on domestic debt                      N/A  N/A      5.4    4.4    7.6   7.2
Other reccurent expenditures      44.1   44.3   N/A  N/A    51.2   28.3   39.6  39.2
Development expenditures           25.8   25.9   N/A  N/A    20.0   21.5   19.1  17.4
Drought-related-expenditures        0.9    0.8   N/A  N/A        -     20.6    5.1   15.0
Development of Social Sector Expenditures    (In %)
Education/Total Expenditures        15.0   15.5   to be deter.   19.2   13.6   19.6  18.8
Primary Education/Total Edu.          to be deter.          56.0   56.0   53.0  55.0
Health/Recurr. Expenditure (Alloc.)  8.0    8.0   to be deter.    7.1    6.0    8.0   8.8
Health/ Recurr. Expenditure (Act.)                               6.7    8.1    7.5  10.5
Structural Indicators
Smallholder Burley Tobacco Quota    3.0    to be deter.          3     12      15    24
(in thousand MT)
Number of new Banks licensed                  N/A                I       -      -     2
1) at time of Board presentation.



Statistical Annex                                                   24
Table 8: Studies Included in Project
Study Title                                      Purpose as Defined                                    Status    Impact of Study
(Report No.)                                    at Appraisal/Redefined
1. The Labor Market       * Analysis of institutional mechanisms for wage determination, adherence to minimum  completed   Findings
and Wages Policy in       wages, and impacts of minimum wage adjustments in Malawi;                      October     incorporated in
. Investigation of the nature of rural labor markets;                           1993         Action Plan prior to
Malawi              * Evaluation of the option to expand the informal sector employment and non farm             release of Second
(A report prepared for the  activities; and                                                                          Tranche
Government of Malawi)   . Development of a competitive labor force.
3. Malawi: Public         * Examination of management issues in three areas: (i) public sector employment and  published    Basis for Civil
Sector Management         remuneration; (ii) Common Services; (iii) Government Ministries and Departments, and   in 1993  Service Reform and
Sector Management     (iv) parastatal sector; and                                                                Privatization
Review                  * Strategy recommendations for managing the change process including suggestions for         Program
(Report No. 9643-MAI)     priorities and action plans.
4. Malawi: Civil           . Gathering and analyzing data on pay and employment policies and practices;    undertaken   Basis for Civil
Service Pay and         . Review employment growth trends and examine alternative compensation and       in 1993 as   Service Reform
employment arrangements;                                                      a follow-up
Employment Study        . Assessment of the impact of Government personnel policies and practices on the size and   of PSMR
(Report No. 13071 -MAI)    composition of Civil Service establishmnent;
* Formulation of proposals that will provide both sustainable and capable systems of
attracting and retaining skilled technical/professional staff and senior managers in the
Civil Service; and
* Making recommendations on how best to link improved pay and other incentives to
increased efficiency and productivity.
5. A Study on the          Assessment of the potential benefit of an implementation of PSI in Malawi. In particular:  completed    Strengthened PSI
Implementation of       . Improvements in procurement practices;                                         in 1993      scheme put in place
Pre-Shipmt       * enhancements in tariff collection efficiency;                                               in 1995-96
Pre-Shipment            * Improvements in customs compliance; and
Inspection              * Strengthening of customs administration are analyzed.
(Green Cover)



Statistical Annex                                                    25
6. A Road-Map for          * Overview of the investment process in Malawi - a guide to the main steps necessary in  Draft  The information
Investors                 the course of setting up an operation;                                        October      provided highlights
(Green Cover)           * Provision of detailed information of the functions, requirements, and procedures of all the  1993  the investment
institutions an investor will have to deal with.                                          process and reduces
investment
uncertainty for
investors
7. Budget Management   * Improving Government's capacity to plan and manage the budget process             Draft        Analysis is Basis for
Review                  * Strengthening expenditure control mechanisms                                   January     stat of Medium-
(Green Cover)           . Enhancing the process of aid coordination and debt management capacities.      1995        Term Expenditure
Framework in 1995
8. Agricultural Sector    Discussion of key actions necessary to raise productivity and reduce poverty such as:  completed   Findings have led to
Memorandum              Liberalization of produce pricing and marketing policies;                        March       rigorous
(Report No. 12805-MAI)   . Expanding supply of, and effective demand for, available improved seeds and fertilizers;   1995  liberalization of
a Generating and disseminating a more suitable menu of improved technologies;                agricultural markets
* Promoting the cultivation of underutilized land and improved access to land and natural    and prices
resource management and conservation;
a Accelerating private sector-led diversification away from maize and tobacco; and
. Developing human resources by improving access to education, health services and
population planning.
9. Malawi: Human           * Comparisons between aggregate social and economic indicators for Malawi and those for  completed    Discussion paper for
Resources and             other similar groups of countries;                                             March        Government to
. Assessment of the prevalence, depth, and severity of poverty across urban and rural areas   1996  formulate and refine
Poverty (profile and      and the extent of income inequality; and                                                   its poverty
priorities for action)    * Examination of the relationship between poverty and geographic location, household        alleviation strategy
(Report No. 12805-MAI)    demographics, asset ownership, access to infrastructure and public goods, linkages to
markets, sources of income, and other factors.



Statistical Annex                             26
Table 9: IDA Financed Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)')
(US$M)
Item             Local   Foreign    Tot        Local   Foreign    Tot        % of
Item        ~~~Costs    Costs    Toa      Costs     Costs           TotalToa
Maize                          0      50.0      50.0         0      64.1      64.1      36.5
General Import Support         0      69.5      69.5         0     109.5      109.5     62.5
Motor Vehicles              -         -         -         -      16.2       16.2      9.2
Motor Spares                -         -         -         -      10.7      10.7       6.1
Stationery                  -         -         -         -       2.0       2.0       1.1
Machinery Spares            -         -         -         -       6.1       6.1       3.5
Raw Materials               -         -         -         -      31.2      31.2      17.8
Machinery                   -         -         -         -       9.7       9.7       5.5
Chemicals                   -         -         -         -      16.6      16.6       9.5
Bicycles and Parts          -         -         -         -       3.4       3.4       2.0
Building Materials          -         -         -         -      11.4      11.4       6.5
Etc.a                       -         -         -         -       2.2       2.2       1.3
Consultancy fees               0       0.5       0.5         0       1.7        1.7      1.0
TOTAL (BDRIDA)                 0     120.0    120.0          0     175.3     175.3       100
a. Cement, Coal, Tractors, and Motor Cycles.
1) Including IDA reflows and Supplemental Financing Arrangement.
Table 10: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest
(US$M)                      Estimate(US$M)
Source              Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign        Total
Costs    Costs                  Costs       Costs
IBRD/IDA                                120.0       120.0                 175.3       175.3
Cofinancing Institutions:
African Development Fund               23.4       23.4                   14.0        14.0
Government of Japan                                                      70.0        70.0
European Union                                                           39.3        39.3
Government of Germany                                                    10.5        10.5
Government of Switzerland                                                 1.7          1.7
Other External Sources
Domestic Contribution
TOTAL                                   143.4       143.4                 310.8       310.8



27                                     Statistical Annex
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants
-                                     ,.    -                                                          ;  
Agreement         Covenant                         Description of covenantCon
Agreement   Section  type                                                                         ments
C2396    111.3.01         9     gRegular Reporting                                                       A
........................ i                                        .. .
C2396    E 111.3.02        3     .Procurement of goods in line with Bank guidelines                       B
........................   ,  i...                                                         .
C2396        111.3.03       I     * Carrying out studies required for the implementation of the Program   C
including labor market, govemment procurement and pre-shipment  I
inspection
C2396      Schedule.3.     10     * Implementation of major revisions to the tariff schedule in the       C
1993/94 budget;
Outline of further steps to be taken towards reaching the targets for  C
i           E          g tariff and trade tax reforms in the 1995/96 FY;
I iCommencement of restructuring the Post Office Savings Bank;         CD
a Adoption of a Public Sector Investment Program for the period        C
1993/94 to 1995/96;
* Allocations of expenditures to the social sector in line with targets  C
agreed with Bank;
* Increase in surtax rate on electricity and telephone services to not less  C
i          . than 10 percent;
* Completion of a labor market policy review including minimum         C
wages policies. Preparation of an action plan for improving the
functioning of the labor market, and implementation of changes in
the level of minimum wages consistent with the review; and
Mobilization of financial resources from other donors sufficient to  C
sustain carrying out of the Program.
Covenant types:
1.=  Accounts/audits                                     8. = Indigenous people
2.=  Financial performance/revenue generation from       9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of projeci funds             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                      allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
A = Satisfactory Compliance
C  =  covenant complied with                              B  =  Procurement followed Bank procedures and
CD =  complied with after delay                                  guidelines
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



Statistical Annex                                    28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Project Cycle                       Planned               Revised               Actual
Weeks    US$         Weeks       US$      Weeks       US$
'000                 '000                  '000
Preparation to Appraisal                       N/A       N/A        N/A        N/A       206.4     251.5
Appraisal-Board                                N/A       N/A        N/A        N/A        28.7       63.9
Negotiations through Board                     N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A        44.9      113.9
Approval
Supervision                                    N/A       N/A        N/A        N/A        87.1     172.6
Completion/ICR                                    9      36.3       21.4       39.4        7.3       15.0
TOTAL                                        N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A      374.4      616.9
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number    Staff      Specialized     Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of        Month/      of       Days       Staff Skills     tation       ment        Types of
Project Cycle      Year     Persons     in       Represented       Status     Objectives    Problems
Field
Through Appraisal    Jan. '90     N/A       N/A          N/A
July '90
Appraisal through    July '91       1        15           T              -            -
Board Approval       Nov. '91       1        15           T
Supervision          Oct. '92       I        15           T               2           2
Nov. '92      1        15            T              2           2
Feb. '93      2        30           T,D             2           2
May'93        3        45        T, CI, C2          2           2
Feb. '94      1        15           T               I           I
June. '94     2        30          T, Cl           HS           HS
Feb. '95      1        15           T              HS           S
June. '95     1        15            T              S           S
Completion           May '96       3        30           T, C3
Specialized staff skills represented:
T: Task Manager, Country Economist, Macro and Labor economics, Trade, Tax / Land /
Industrial Policy
D: Division Chief, Principal Economist, Macro, Industry & Finance
Cl: Consultant, Economist, Trade, Tax / Land / Industrial Policy
C2: Consultant, Economist, Business Development
C3: Consultant, Economist.



29
ANNEX
COMMENTS BY AGENCIES OF GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI AND
CO-FINANCIERS






TSlSPmS: Fnuj4m IMuiw.                                          SECRErARY TO THE TREASURY
Teeo: 44407 lN MmISTRY OF FINANCE
Faz: 781 679                                                          P.O. BOX 30049
LILONGWE 3
MALAWI
Ref. No. C3211/52                                           21 October 1996
Mr. Ahmad Ahsan,
Senior Country Economist,
Macro, Industry and Finance Division,
The World Bank,
1818H Street, N.W.,
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Mr. Ahsan,
ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND DROUGHT RECOVERY
PROGRAMME (EDDRP) : DRAFT COMPLETION
REPORT (CR. 2396-MMAI)
With reference to the above subject, I have the pleasure to submit herewith
Malawi Government's reaction and position on the EDDRP Completion Report for
your necessary action.
Yours sincerely.
SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY
Att'd.



MALAWI ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM  (EDDRP, IDA CREDIT
NO. 2396-MAI) IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT.
We wish to thank your for the above report which we received
under cover of your letter of 12th July, 1996 following the
meeting which was held in our conference room on 23rd May,
1996. We have circulated and discussed the report with the
various participants, and to a great extent, most of them are
contented with it.
We have received reactions to the report from the Malawi
Investment Promotion Agency (MIPA), the Malawi Savings
Bank (MSB), the Ministry of Labour and Manpower
Development, and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
which we have submitted to you under separate cover. We
wish to indicate to you that we endorse their pertinent
observations on the report. And we should be very grateful if
their observations could be taken on board.



For ease of reference we wish to submit the various reactions
which we have obtained as follows:
1.0 MALAWI SAVINGS BANK:
The comments are in respect of para 20.
(i) CAPACITY BUILDING:
Malawi Savings Bank have recruited a Finance Manager, Audit
Manager and Human Resources Manager and these bodies
have joined the Management Information Systems Manager
and the Deputy General Manager bringing the team to five.
Still to be recruited are the General Manager and Operations
Manager.
(ii) COMPUTERISATION PROJECT:
MSB have procured both the hardware and software. Training
on computerisation is still underway. Three experts were
expected to join MSB by September, 1996 to finalise the
training and install the software. Full-scale operation is
expected to commence on 1st January, 1997.



(iii) CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS RECONCILIATION AND
AUDIT OF PASSBOOK WITHDRAWALS:
Work in this regard is still underway. Forms have been
designed in order to enable them carry on correct balances to
the new computer system.
(iv) AGENCY AGREEMENT WITH THE MALAWI POSTS AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (MPTQ:
The Agency Agreement with MPTC was signed on 7th August,
1996. The agreement will speed up payments from MPTC.
The agreement stipulates remittance terms and all overdue
amounts will be subject to interest charges at current market
interest rates.
2.0 MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY:
Concerns of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MC&I)
are with reference to paragraphs 9, 13, 14, 30 and 34. The
general observation is that although the SME Support Fund
played some role in entrepreneurial training, it is hardly
mentioned in the document.



With reference to paragraph 14, we support the view of MC&I
that the statement is too strong to say that Government
"failed". The point is that Government was preoccupied with
the political transition process, the macroeconomic crisis and
drought conditions than peripheral issues of "streamlining and
rationalisation of support institutions." It is felt that paragraph
30, last sentence captures the accurate or the true picture of
the situation, and that this picture should be expressed in the
"Evaluation Summary" on page iii' and in paragraph 14. In
any case due to the macroeconomic crises and the drought
situations even the Bank itself did not focus supervision on
support to SMEs.
3.0 MALAWI INVESTMENT PROMOTION AGENCY (MIPA):
MIPA's response to the report is as follows:
3.1 INVESTMENT CLIMATE:
(a) OVERVIEW
Under EDDRP Government implemented policies to stimulate
and strengthen the role of both foreign and local investment.



growth of the economy. For purposes of stimulating industrial
development, the ultimate goal is to have readily available
factory shells and serviced sites. For this to happen
Government embarked on measures to expedite the
processing of all the approvals for new leases and subleases
required.  EDDRP  supported  the  decentralisation  and
streamlining of procedures for leasing of industrial land.
3.2 MAKING MIPA OPERATIONAL:
MIPA became fully operational in 1993 although the Act
which created the Agency focused more on institutional
building-recruitment and training of staff and establishment of
management information system. As time progressed the
Agency then centred attention to the improvement of the
investment environment. Although investment environment
embraces so many features, the Agency made contributions to
issues where it had the competence to do so with a view to
creating a favourable image of Malawi. The Agency made
contributions in the following areas:
3.2.1 POLICY DIALOGUE
3.2.2 THE PRODUCTION OF A ROADMAP TO
INVESTMENT APPROVAL PROCESS IN MALAWI



Due to the weak private investment response five years ago,
Government commissioned a study and the results revealed
considerable delays in the investment approval process
impeting the flow of private investment. EDDRP was aimed
at complementing resources and facilitating reform measures
in opening the fihancial sector, reforming trade tax, and
promulgation of the Investment Promotion Act, 1991. The
Investment Promotion Act was published together with a
schedule comprising the Investment Policy Statement and the
supplement. (the Investors Guide which is yet to be legislated)
which outlines laws and regulations conducive to private
investment. Under the same Investment Promotion Act, the
Malawi Investment Promotion Act was established as a focal
point for private sector dialogue and give clear signal of
Government's commitment to investing and solving any
problems arising during the investment process. With the
enactment of the Investment Promotion Act, 1991 industrial
licences were eliminated with the exception of only a short list
of environmentally hazardous activities. The Repeal of the
Industrial Development Act resulted in streamlining the
company incorporation process to statutory limit of 15 days.



3.2.3 DISCUSSIONS ON EXPORT PROCESSING ZONES BILL
The Agency spearheaded initial discussions on the EPZ Bill
with a view to stimulating export oriented investments. The
EPZ law became effective in 1996 after a delay of nearly four
years.
3.2.4 INDUSTRIALISATION POLICY
The Agency put together a concept paper which was later sent
to Government. Government is now looking into the
formulation of a comprehensive industry and commercial
policy in Malawi and technical assistance has been provided
by UNDP.
3.2.5 VISION FOR THE COUNTRY
Through the Business Forum of August 1995, the Agency kick-
started debate on the visioning including the methodologies
which have worked elsewhere. The visioning process is being



followed up closely by the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development.
3.2.6 IMAGE BUILDING
While contributing to policy dialogue between private sector
and the Government, the Agency also disseminated useful
information to potential investors through the MIPA
Newsletter, enhanced bronchures (investing in Malawi a Smart
Choice), ten-minute video on Investing in Malawi, local
entrepreneurs  forum,  and  regional  and  international
participation at various forums. To date Malawi is better
known to most potential investors in the region and overseas.
3.2.7 INVESTMENT FACILITATION SERVICES
MIPA relies on the goodwill and support of regulatory bodies
to ensure timely decisions. Some of the investment facilitation
services include:
(i) provision of information on investment in Malawi
(ii) provision of advisory services to investors and pre-
investment counselling
(iii) monitoring and informing investors of progress relating to
applications



(iv) provision of aftercare services
(v)acting as a referral centre and assisting in solving problems
encountered by investors
(vi) business visit facilitation
(vii) introducing investors to potential partners
3.2.8 INVESTMENT PROMOTION
Inflow of foreign direct investment has not been very
significant although a lot of interest has been shown. MIPA
facilitated investment of nearly K2 billion since it was
established and most of these projects are at various stages of
project implementation. Statistics captured on MIPA's Investor
Tracking system portray the following picture:
Number of Investors by Stage Distribution
Stage       1993  1994   1995        1996
Inquiry       19   40      63       24
Lead           31   56      90       70
Committed      1   5      2        4
Investor       1   6       5       6



The above shows that an increasing number of people who
want to make more investment have become aware of the
activities of MIPA. Inevitably the job of MIPA will be to
transform the enquiries, leads and commitments into actual
investments - a task that requires full support and collaboration
of all institutions involved in the investment approval process.
4.0 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Notwithstanding political developments and the weak
economic recovery experienced between 1994 and 1996, the
Agency has rendered the service in accordance to the mandate
of the Investment Promotion Act. In terms of the efforts to
make Malawi an attractive place for investors, the Agency
believes that this is a continuous process and the various
factors which contribute to making Malawi a favourable
climate need to be analysed, monitored and adjusted
continuously. These factors generally include the political
climate, the economic environment, infrastructure, exchange
controls, employment of foreigners, business environment,
fiscal incentives, and the organisational set-up of MIPA.
While most of these issues do not fall directly under the
control of MIPA, the organisational set-up of MIPA as a one-



stop-shop has attracted so much attention among the donor
community including the World Bank. MIPA was out of
purpose established as a one-stop-facilitator and not a one-
stop-shop. The concept of one-stop-shop entails that the
Government has to relinquish its regulatory powers to MIPA,
at least on matters that concern investment approvals. Given
the set-up of Government machinery, it would be ill-
conceived to believe that a one-stop-shop to undertake
approvals under one authority - MIPA - would be effective. In
such circumstances MIPA would serve investors best as a mere
facilitator. But MIPA would be more effective if the approval
process were streamlined further although the current status is
much better than was the case five years ago. But it must be
understood that matters of investment approvals cut across all
arms of Government. Given the importance of private
investment in Malawi and in particular the paramount status
accorded to Investment Promotion Act, an important step is
required to introduce automaticity in the investment approval
process. As a first step, the relevant statutes must be amended
to be in keeping with requirements of the Investment
Promotion Act.
Another area where the World Bank and other donors have
expressed concern relates to the proliferation of institutions



serving investors and hence the proposal to merge some and
rationalising others. Indeed investors need different kinds of
services and in the absence of private sector providers,
Government steps in to fill the Gap. But it may not be
appropriate to justify the merger of institutions simply by
mentioning numbers of institutions involved.
The Agency recommends that as a follow-up, assistance
should be directed at the following:
(a) provision of factory shells and industry parks.
(b) A special comprehensive programme for SMEs covering
areas of infrastructure, marketing and markets, financial
assistance, technical assistance and research and development,
fiscal incentives training and management, etc.
(c) A consultancy to assist in the further streamlining of the
investment approval process, taking advantage of benchmark
countries where success has been achieved.
(d) A consultancy to undertake a proper assessment of a
number of institutions serving private investors and with a
view to increasing the efficiency of resource utilisation.
(e) Establishment of an investment promotion fund to support
the Government in aggressively marketing Malawi as an
investment location.



(f) Establishment of a fund to support industries which require
restructuring as a result of regional integration and the
globalisation of the economy.
(g) A consultancy to assist the Government in the preparation
of an industrial master-plan.
5.0 MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND MANPOWER
DEVELOPMENT
5.1 We support the view of the Ministry of Labour and    Manpower
Development that almost all objectives and activities falling under their
responsibility were   achieved. These activities are as follows:
(a) the minimum wage structure has been revised and
simplified to two levels from the three tier system.
(b) a trigger mechanism for minimum wage review was
introduced and legislated in 1992.
(c) government set the pace for introduction and promotion of
decentralised collective bargaining in order to phase out the
institution of minimum wage fixing once trade unions are fully
fledged. A policy statement on Trade Unions and Collective
Bargaining was issued in August, 1993 emphasising the
legality of decentralised labour negotiations.
(d) a Protection for Tenants Act was drafted and is being
processed into a bill by Ministry of Justice.



5.2 There are two areas where no achievements were
recorded: the strengthening of Labour Market Information
System as well as human resources training for effective
operations of the decentralised negotiating system. Trade
unions are just coming up and therefore need a lot of training
in responsible bargaining. The Ministry of Labour's capacity to
handle the decentralising system needs to be strengthened.
Collective Bargaining hinges on the availability and adequate
labour market information flow in a usable form. Unless such
capacity is created, the system is bound to fail.
MINISTRY OF FINANCE



Iundettmt tfOr Aussenwirtachaft
Office f*d*ral doe affaires iconomiques exterieures
'      Ufflcio federals dellecenomia esterna
w    Ufflzi federal da 1'economia exteriura
3003 Bern,  August 13, 1996
Bundeshaus Ost
7e1. 031 /  324 07 85
Fax 031 /  324 09 62                                        The World zanc
Ihr Zeich*n                                                 1818 H Street N.W.
vastra $iota                                                Washington D.C. 20433 / U.S.A.
Voss s-gn
Unsar Zeichen                                                 Mr. Hartwig Schafer
Notre siaobg
Nostra sigia  3/839/MW - baj                                Senior Economist
Noss s1gn                                                  Macro, Industry and Finance Division
Southern Africa Department
Dear Mr. Schafer,
we would like to thank you for subrnitting us the Bank's draft Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the hMalawi EDDRP. Switzerland contributed under her ST.BEX-facility
USD 1.7 million to the Supplemental Financing Arrangement of USD 40 million which
has been launched for alleviating the drought related shortage of food crop. e.g. maize.
Switzerland takes the opportunity to provide the following comments to the ICR:
a)   we would like to commend the Authorities of Malawi and the IDA staff for the
successful completion of the prograrm  The danger of a drought related famine
causing not only human rrusery and suffering but also affecting social, political and
economic stability could be avoided by a joint effort of the Govemment of Malawi
and the international cormrmunity, especially IDA. In this context, the STABEX-
facility of Switzerland has been applied the first time as an instrument to support
countries in a situation affected by an external shock, in Malawi's case several
years of drought. We are satisfied that this "pilot application" showed the expected
results and helped to m:-iain ;he social and economic viability of Malawi.
b)   The experience made with this program  shows that countries in a structural
adjustment process, such as Malawi. need additional assistance when affected by
external shocks. The negative effects on the macro economic situation. such as
balance of payment, exchange rates. budget and growth potential are likely to
hamper for a long period of time development perspectives. The costs of bringing
the country back on track might by far exceed the additional external shock related
assistance, provided the authorities of the country and the international community
pull at the same string which Avas the case in Malawi.
g ns 'eds    I  "  &s  7  r   * 1a'1, I I  - n-C Tr c eupunc66J,o0 *10 C  el Id  C!J OPV
au t :1.o   .0 - 4c;jr      : :      e   l .#  0," 0 Pul
I. .s ¶ .  *4~ ,I g4c  .:  10 4:,,,  I t  s4A,nc    *1 e 4sssJP? ZOIZIn*A
o4,*,II4.IY *5,u-j4C *.-0U pur' 1Wv 0ep UVW 6q bUZU*PoIo40JJ0)I



c)   The overall positive results of the program however do not conceal that implanen-
tation could have been more effective. It is regrettable that for example, as
indicated in the ICR. 30'000 MT of imported yellow maize arrived when local
produced maize was already avail4ble for consumption in sufficient quantities. Such
incidents may distort balanced market mechanisms.
Generally, Switzerland considers this program as a successful example which encourages
us to continue the external shock related application of the Swiss STABEX-facility.
Yours sincerely
Development Policy Division
-7 /,   2,
M. Meyer
Deputy Director
Federal Office for Fomign Economic Affairs









ITMAGING
Report No:       16161
Type: ICR



