Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2396 MAI
                                                   (Fourth Amendment)
                         Fourth Agreement Amending
                       Development Credit Agreement
                 (Entrepreneurship Development and Drought
                             Recovery Program)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated January 20, 1995
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2396 MAI
                                                   (Fourth Amendment)
                         FOURTH AGREEMENT AMENDING
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
MALAWI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Entrepreneurship
Development and Drought Recovery Program), dated July 2, 1992
(the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting
in the financing of the program referred to in Recital (A) of
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
      (B)   the Borrower and the Association have entered into an
agreement dated February 9, 1993 (the First Amending
Agreement), a second agreement dated February 18, 1994 (the
Second Amending Agreement), and a third agreement dated
November 18, 1994 (the Third Amending Agreement), all amending
the Development Credit Agreement for the purpose of providing
the Borrower with additional assistance in the financing of the
Program;
Page  2
      (C)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
further additional assistance towards the financing of the
Program by increasing the amount made available under the
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,200,000); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to provide such further additional
assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       Amendments of the Development
                             Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by the deletion of the word "and" at the
end of Subsection (e), substituting "; and" for "." at the end
of Subsection (f) and adding a new Subsection (g) as follows:
            "(g)  "Fourth Amending Agreement" means the Fourth
      Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement
      (Entrepreneurship Development and Drought Recovery
      Program) between the Borrower and the Association, dated
      January 20, 1995".
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
      Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
      referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount
      in various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-
      three million five hundred ninety thousand Special Drawing
      Rights (SDR 123,590,000) (the Credit), which includes an
      original amount in various currencies equivalent to
      eighty-five million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
      Rights (SDR 85,400,000) and four additional amounts in
      various currencies equivalent to four million two hundred
      ninety thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,290,000)
      (the First Additional Financing), three million one
      hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,100,000)
      (the Second Additional Financing), twenty-seven million
      six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
      (SDR 27,600,000) (the Third Additional Financing) and
      three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
      (SDR 3,200,000) (the Fourth Additional Financing)."
      Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section
2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as
follows:
            "; provided, however, that any commitment charge on
      the First Additional Financing shall accrue from April 10,
      1993; that any commitment charge on the Second Additional
      Financing shall accrue from April 19, 1994; that any
      commitment charge on the Third Additional Financing shall
      accrue from January 17, 1995 and that any commitment
      charge on the Fourth Additional Financing shall accrue
      from a day sixty (60) days after the date of the Fourth
      Amending Agreement."
      Section 1.04. The table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to
read as follows:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated                % of
                           (Expressed in             Expenditures
Page  3
Category                  SDR Equivalent)           to be Financed
(1) Goods to be                                     100% of foreign
    financed:                                       expenditures
    (a) under the Third      27,600,000
        Additional
        Financing
    (b) under the Fourth      3,200,000
        Additional
        Financing
(2) Other Goods:                                    100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures
    (a) Food imports         28,400,000
    (b) Other imports        63,300,000
(3) Consultants'              1,090,000             100%
    services
                            ___________
        TOTAL               123,590,000
                            ===========
    Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
          "10.        After a date twelve (12) months from the date
    of this Fourth Agreement Amending the Development Credit
    Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment
    shall be entered into to pay amounts to, or on the order of,
    the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out
    of the proceeds of the Fourth Additional Financing. At any
    time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the
    Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Fourth
    Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part
    thereof".
                                ARTICLE II
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall
have been furnished to the Association that the execution and
delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action.
    Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there
shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
    Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Association shall
dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
    Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of
this Section. If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under
Page  4
the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit
Agreement, as amended to the date of this Amending Agreement,
shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending
Agreement had not been executed.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                By /s/ N. M. Mwaungulu
                                                Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
