CREDIT NUMBER 2396 MAI
(Fourth Amendment)
Fourth Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Entrepreneurship Developoent and Drought
Recovery Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         a                1995
J+#/4 1,c~


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2396 MAI
(Fourth Amendment)
FOURTH AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, doted     44ALky  2o           , 1995, between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCLATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a DaveloDment Credit Agreement (Entrepreneurship Development
and Drought Recovery Program), dated July 2, 1992 (the Development
Cre,it Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of
the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)   the Borrower and the Association have entered into an
agreement dated February 9, 1993 (the First Amending Agreement), a
second agreement dated February 18, 1994 (the Second Amending
Agreement), and a third agreement dated November 16, 1994 (the Third
Amending Agreement), all amending the Development Credit Agreement
for the purpose o- providing the Borrower with additional assistance
in the financiag of the Program;
(C)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
further addLtional assistance towards the financing of the Program
by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an am.-unt in various currencies equivalent to three
million :wo hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,200,000);
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such further additional assistance to
the Borrower 'tpon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreament;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by the deletion of the word "and" at the end of
Subsection (e), substituting "; and" for "." at the end of
Subsection (f) and adding a new Subsection (g) as follows:


﻿-2-
"(g) "Fourth Amending Agreement" means the Fourth
Agreement   Amending  the   Development  Credit   Agreement
(Entrepreneurship Development and Drought Recovery Program)
between the Borrower and the Association, dated  ,     -&
1991".
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currancies equivalent to one hundred twenty-three million five
hundred    ninety   thousand    Special   Drawing    Rights
(SDR 123,590,000) (the Credit), which includes an original
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-five million
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 85,400,000)
and four additional amounts in various currencies equivalent
to four million two hundred ninety thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,290,000) (the First Additional Financing), three
million  one   hundred  thousand  Special   Drawing  Rights
(SDR 3,100,000) (the Second Additional Financing), twenty-
seven million six hundir.ed thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 27,600,000) (the Third Additional Financing) and three
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
3,200,000) (the Fourth Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04
(b) of the Development Credit agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, hcwever, that any commitment charge on the
First Additional Financing shall accrue from April 10, 1993;
that any commitment charge on the Second Additional Firincing
shall accrue from April 19, 1994; that any comm,tmenz. charge
on  the  Third  Additional   Financing  shall  accrue  from
January 17, 1995 and that any commitment charge on the Fourth
Additional Financing shall accrue from a day sixty (60) days
after the date of the Fourth Amending Agreement."


﻿- 3 -
Section 1.04. The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
I to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods to be                                100% of foreign
financed:                                  expenditures
(a) under the Third       27,600,000
Additional
Financing
(b) under the Fourth       3,200,000
Additional
Financing
(2) Othe- Goods:                               100% of foreign
expenditures
(a) Food imports          28,400,000
(b) Other imports         63,300,000
(3) Consultants'               1,090,000       100%
services
TOTAL               123,590,000
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
"10. After a date twelve (12) months from the date of
this Fourth Agreement Amending the Devel-)pment Credit
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment
shall be entered into to pay amounts to, or on the order of,
the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financet' out of
the proceeds of the Fourth Addit4onal Financing. At ny time
after such date, thc Association may, by notice to the
Borrcwer, cancel the unvithdrawn amount of the Fourth


﻿-4-
Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part
thereof",
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished
to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the
Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and is legally binding uoon the Borrower in accordance with
its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to
che Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Secti-..a 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement, as amended to the date of
this Amending Agreement, shall continue in full force and effect, as
if thi.; Amending Agreement had not been executed.


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By   V, j/,L      ,, ti A    L'~U
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By *~~x.~d,.4               (    /(7'
Regioral Vice President
Africa
I


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify tha: the foregoing is a true copy
of the orignal in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


