Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL. USE ONLY
Report . 8425-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGTIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
NOVEMBER 26, 1990
.Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
ITh doamt bas a red d__ice add may be s_ by   _    ozb in-am    _               of
theli.1. du_e  Its conkext mayt jotg _rw  be dbdosed     Wad Boa n



CURRENCY EQUTVALENTS
Currency Unit - Austral (A)
November 12. 1990                     US$Dollar             Austral
Free Market Rate                        US$ 1                 5,375
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
Metric System
P=ISCAL YC
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COFAPYS  -    Consejo Federal  de Agua  Potable  y  Saneamiento  - Federal
Council for Potable Water and Sanitation
DIPOS    -    Direccima de Obras Publicas y  Servicios de Santa Fe - Office
of Public Works and Services of Santa Fe
DNSA     -    Direccion Nacional de Saneamiento Ambiental - National Office
for Environmental Sanitation
EPOS     -    Empresa de Obras  Publicas  y  Servicios  de Cordoba - Public
Works and Services Enterprise of Cordoba
PENTOS   -    Federacion Nacional  de  Trabajadores  de  Obras Sanitarias -
National Federation of Sanitary Workers
PONAVI   -    Fondo Nacional de Vivienda - National Housing Fund
IDB      -    Inter-American Development Bank
MOSP     -    Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Publicos - Ministry of Public
Works and Services
NSP      m    Plan Nacional de Saneamiento - National Sanitation Plan
OSN      -    Obras Sanitarias de la Macion - National Sanitary Works
SNAP     -    Servicio Nacional de Agua Potable Rural - National Service of
Rural Potable Water
SVOA     -    Secretaria de Vivienda y Ordenamiento Ambiental - Secretariat
of Housing and Environmental Management.



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERA6E SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
IAN AND POJCT M         Y_                                       Paie
1. THE sBcRo
4.  Water Supply and Sewerage Service Coverage ............. I
B.  Sector Institutional Development ....................... 2
C.  Investment and Financial Policies ...................... 3
D.  New Policy Directions ....................4
E.  Sector External Financing .................................***.... S.5
F.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ......................... 7
II. TIE PROJECT
A. Project Origin ..................................... a
S.  Project Objectives .....................................  
C.  Project Description        ....       ..99...9.9...9999999999...9
D. Project Costs ........................................ 12
E. Financing Plan ........ **................. l
F.  Borrower and EZecuting Agency ......................... 15
G. Implementation ......................................... 17
B. Procurement ........................... *0 ... *0.0.....9
1. Disbursements ........................................ 22
J.  Accounting and Auditing ....................... *9.... 23
R. Subproject Lending Policy and Eligibility Criteria.... 23
L.  Annual Project Implementation Review .................. 26
II.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.  Economic Benefits ...........                 ...........   26
B. Beneficiaries Impact ...................................... 27
C.  Environmental Impact .       ........................ 2?
D.  Risks and Safeguards ................................. 27
In.  AGRRDIENTS -EACMI AND RE........ON.                  .
This report is based on the findings of a post-appraisal mission consisting
of  Messrs.  Bernardo  Gomez  (Mission  Leader),  Guillermo  Yepes  (Senior
Sanitary Engineer) and Mark Dorfman (Financial Analyst), which visited
Argentina in November 1989. Mr. Emanuel Idelovitch (Senior Water Engineer)
and Mr. Klas Ringskog (Senior Economist, on leave) also contributed
substantial inputs to the report, based on their participation in previous
missions. Mmes. Maria Helena Carvalho and Leo Santelices assisted in the
production of the report.
This document has a rsricted diosibuon and may be ud by recipients only ir the poformnce
of their offiiW duties Its contnts may not oterise be diclosed wiho Wodd Bank authoaizon.



-"1-
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXS
Annex 1       Concentrated Population Connected to Public Water Supply
Annex 2       Concentrated Population Connected to Public Sewerage
Annex 3       Water Production
Annex 4       Sewage Treatment and Disposal
Annex 5       Water Supply and Sewerage Institutions
Annex 6       Water  and   Sewerage   Utilities   -   Simplified  Operating
Situation, 1986
Annex 7       Project Implementation Schedule - Cummulative Completion (Z)
Annex 8       Project Cost Estimate
Annex 9       COFAPYS' Organization Chart
Annex 10      COFAPYS - Financial Projections
Annex 11      COFAPYS - Action Plan and Financial Targets
Annex 12      COPAPYS - Terms  of  Reference  for  Consultants in Financial
Management
Annex 13      Conditions for COFAPYS/Subloan Agreements
Annex 14      Subproject Evaluation Guidelines
Annex 15      Target Performance Indicators for Water Entities
Annex 16      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 17      Loan Disbursement Schedule
Annex 18      Selected Documents Available in Project File
Map
IBRD 12432R2



-iii-
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrowers      The Argentine Republic.
Executing
Aaencvs        Consejo Federal de Agua Potable y Saneamiento (COEAPYS).
k&oUnts        US$100.0 million equivalent.
Tenmss         Repayment in 17  years,  including  5  years  of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. Proceeds of
the Loan would be passed' on by the Argentine Republic to
COFAPYS as a Loan, on t4e same terms and conditions as those
of the Loan.
Relendina
Temss          COFAPYS would make subloans denominated in dollars to public
and private  water  and  sewerage  entities.   COEAPYS would
charge the same variable interest rate as the Bank loan,
plus a spread, to be updated from time to time, for the
financing of the project administrative expenses, the credit
risk and the cross-currency exchange risk form the Bank's
Currency Pooling System.    The  initial  spread will be six
-percentage points (four to cover administrative expenses and
credit, and two to cover the cross-currency exchange risk).
It would also charge a commitment fee at least equal to the
one charged by the Bank.
Proiect
Obiectives:    Overall  project   objectives,   in   line with  Government
policies, are to: (a) promote greater sector efficiency and
financial  viability;  (b)    expand  service  coverage; (c)
improve the quality of the water artd sewerage services while
protecting the environment; (d) encourage private sector
participation in the water and sanitation sector.
Proiect
DescriDtions   The operation would be a sector operation project managed by
COFAPYS, which would onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to
water supply and sewerage entities in urban areas (15,000
inhabitants or more) meeting agreed eligibility criteria.
The investments eligible for financing under the project
consist of those required to: (a) improve the operations of
water utilities (402 of project cost); (b) rehabilitate
water and sewerage systems (30Z); (c) expand water and
sewerage systems (25Z); (d) prepare studies and designs
(AZ); and (e) improve COFAPYS operations (1?).



-iv-
Benef its      The proposed project would  yield economic, fiscal, social,
and  environmental benefits.    tconomic  benefits  include
higher water  sales   and   cost   savings  resulting  from
investments almed  at promoting  efficiency.   By promoting
water  consumption  metering,   the   project would  enable
currently wasted water to be saved at a cost of about 15?
of the marginal cost of expanding production capacity. With
tariff   levels   approaching   this   marginal   cost,  the
investments in metering would have a high benefit-cost
ratio. In addition, by promoting operational improvements
and adequate system maintenance, the project would increase
system capacity to provide services to more customers at
one-fifth the cost of building new Installations. On the
basis of the experience with other water and sewerage system
rehabilitation projects in Latin America, most investments
in this category show rates of return of 201 or more.
Fiscal benefits would accrue as operational cash surpluses
of the water entities and customer contributions resulting
from policies implemented under the project begin to replace
general tax revenue. Social benefits include expanding
service  coverage   to   low-income   groups   and  creating
employment in project-related  activities.   Also, under the
project's commercialization program, tariffs that are now
based on unmetered consumption will be replaced by a
progressive tariff based on consumption levels, making it
possible   to   cross-subsidize   low-income   users,  which
generally are  low  consumers.    A beneficial environmental
impact would occur through targetted investments to reduce
water consumption, and thus the amount of sewage disposal.
and   through   the    disecipline   induced   by   preparing
environmental impact assessments for all projects financed
by COFAPYS.
Risks and
Safeuaurds:    The main  project  risks  are  financial, institutional, and
political. The financial risk concerns the availability of
domestic financing  and  the  foreign exchange  risk.   The
domestic finance risk has been greatly reduced by: (a)
emphasis  on  investment  for policy  reforms  to  increase
financial viability of the water entities: and (b) the
relatively small local  counterpart  required.   The foreign
exchange risk to be passed on to the water entities
represents a substantial challenge to the nsanagements, which
lack experience in this area and are subject to price
setting by provincial authorities which also lack requisite
skill in this area.    The  risk  is  reduced by the project
emphasis on strengthening the management of the water
entities as well as their financial performance. COPAPYS'
financial consultants would also provide advice to the water
entities in managing the foreign exchange risk. The risk is
also lessened by the &ational and provincial governments'
policy to ensure that the provision of water and sanitation
services is financially viable. Institutlonsl risks pertain



- y
to project  success  depending  directly  ons   (a) COFAPYS'
ability  to   onlend  under   agreed  economic,  financlal,
Institutional, and environmental criteriat and (b) the
provincial utilities' ability to focus on Institutional
reform and system maintenance and rehabilitation--areas
where they are admittedly weak.    These risks are offset by
COFAPYS and the utilities hiring qualified consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, financed out of project resources.
Finally,  there  are  political  risks.    These  risks  are
deminished in the light of the broad political consensus
that the neglected water supply and sewerage sector urgently
needs to reorient its policies and practices. It is also
miniuized by the conformity between the project objectives
and the Government's policy to increase the efficiency of
the public sector and to improve public sector finances at
national, provincial, and municipal levels.



- vi -
Table 1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(in US$ million)
8of
Component                                  Local       Foreign   Foreign  Total  Total
I. IMPROVEMENT OF EXISTING OPERATIONS
a) Institutional Development                2.8         6.5      70%      9.3        5%
b) Commercialization of                     9.0        20.9      70%     29.8       16%
Water Service
c) Operational Improvements                 9.0        20.9      70%     29.8       16%
d) Training of Personnel                    1.7         3.9      70%      5.6        3%
SUBTOTAL (I)                  22.4         52.2      70%     74.6       40%
II.  REHABILITATION OF SYSTEMS             28.0        28.0      50%     56.0       30%
III. EXPANSION OF SYSTEMS                  28.0        18.7      40%     46.6       25%
IV.  PREPARATION OF STUDIES                 2.2         5.2      70%      7.5        4%
AND DESIGNS
V.   IMPROVEMENT OF COFAPYS' OPERATIONS   0.6           1.3      70%       1.9        1%
TOTAL BASE COST (Oct. 1990 prices)  81.1         105.4      57%    186.6      100%
PHYSICAI. CONTINGENCIES (10%)       8.1        10.5      57%     18.7       10%
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                19.5        25.3      57%     44.8       24%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  108.8        141.3      57%    250.0      134%
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
(In US$ millions)
% of
Source of Funds         Lcal         Foreign    total      Iotal
IBRD                     29.4         70.6      100.0       40.0%
IDB                      29.4         70.6      100.0       40.0%
Water Entities           50.0          0.0       50J0      _20.0
& Provinces
Total                   108.8       1JLU_       250.0      lQQd.0



-vil-
Kitsmated Disbursementst
Bank n                1991   1992    1993   1994   199   1.996    j997    1998
Annual           1.2     2.7     6.7   15.7   23.1    24.0    19.1    7.5
Cumulative       1.2     3.9    10.6   26.3   49.4    73.4    92.5  100.0
Rt.e of Returns  Individual subprojects In  system  rehabilitation and expansion
are required to have an estimated financial rate of return of
at least 12X, with revenues taken as a proxy for economic
benefits.



WATER SUPPLY AD  SE         SE=TOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL RPORT
I.  MIE SET
A. Water Sunplv and Sewerage Service Coverage
1.01      Overview. As a highly urbanized country, with 85% of its 31 million
inhabitants (mid-1987) living in urban areas, Argentina needs to have a well
managed water supply and sewerage sector. This is especially true given the
deleterious social side effects that could occur in its absence, including grave
public health risks. In fact, unsafe water and unsanitary conditions rank fifth
among   fourteen major causes of mortality, including infections, parasitic
diseases, and related illnesses in Argentina.
1.02      Until 1980, Obras Sanitarias de la Nacion (OSN), a state-owned
enterprise, had the responsibility for planning, constructing and operating most
major urban water supply and sewerage systems in the country. OSN exercised its
responsibility through provincial offices that were under the control of the
central office in Buenos Aires. In 1980, the Government, dissatisfied with OSN's
performance, took a bold step to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the
water supply and sewerage sector by decentralizing services and administration
to the provinces and limiting OSN to serving the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area.
The initiative, however, was hastily implemented with little preparation for an
orderly transition of responsibility to the provinces   A short-term effect was
that the percentage of urban and rural concentrated population with houses
connected to a piped water system dropped from an already low 67* in 1980 to only
60% by 1986.
1.03      Other major contributors to weak sector performance in recent years
were the country's economic recession of the 1980s, the hyperinflation, and the
lingering debt crisis--all of which served to undermine Argentina's optimistic
sector objective subscribed under the International Water Decade:  complete
coverage for the urban and rural concentrated population with safe water and
sanitation by 1990. Due to the severely contracted government resources and the
short-term effects of the decentralization effort, investments from national,
provincial and municipal resources for maintenance, rehabilitation, or expansion
of water supply facilities were not up to the needs of the sector. (See Annexes
1 and 2 for data on water supply and sewerage service coverage, respectively,
in selected provinces). Water treatment plants continued to deteriorate and
aging distribution system sustained increasingly higher losses. No metering,
or insufficient metering, and water leakages placed unusually high demands on
the water production installations, amounting to 400-640 liters per capita/day
(Annex 3) compared to 300-400 liters per capita/day In well managed urban systems
of the region.



1.04      Sewerage Service and Pollution Levels.  Sewerage coverage, which is
about half of the water supply coverage, rose from 31% of all dwellings in urban
and concentrated rural areas in 1980 to 34% in 1986. The balance of the
population resorts to individual sewage disposal systems, such as septic tanks,
which can result in a serious public health risk. For example, in some major
cities, like Mar del Plata and Tucuman, high ground water levels togetlher with
septic tanks combine to increase the risk of contaminating aquifers that in some
cases supply drinking water to the population through wells.   Also, those
communities with public sewerage generally discharge their effl. ints with little
or no treatment: estimates indicate that 65% of all sewage is released directly
into rivers and lakes, while 27% receives only primary treatment and a mere 8%
secondary treatment. This results in: (i) deteriorating water quality and more
costly water treatment;  (ii)   eutrophication of surface waters and the
destruction of recreational resources; and (iii) disrupted ecological cycles with
often unpredictable but always harmful consequences (sewage treatment data for
selected provinces appear in Annex 4).
1.05      Comparison with Other Latin American Countries.  With an estimated
share of 60% of its urban and rural concentrated population having house
connections to a piped water system, Argentina is in 14th place among the 21
major countries in the Latin America and Caribbean region. With 34% of its
urban population connected to a public sewerage system it ranks 19th among the
same countries. These are disappointing placements considering that Argentina's
GNP per capita is the fourth highest in the region --nd that in many ways it was
the pioneer of modern environmental  sanitation  in Latin America.    This
observation is true even taking into account that the evaluation of water supply
arnd sewerage services by means of the percentage of house water connections and
sewerage connections to central systems, respectively, does not reflect fully
the quality of the services and can thus be misleading.
B. Sector Institutional Development
1.06      Institutional Development.  For over 100 years, public water supply
and sewerage services in urban and rural areas in Argentina were administered
by OSN. Under OSNs tutelage, by 1930, Argentina had taken the lead in Latin
Ameriea in the field of environmental health; unfortunately, in subsequent
decades accomplishments were not sustained. Abundant financial resources leu
to overconfidence and eventually to economically inefficient investments,
delaying the application of modern management techniques. This type of
development was pursued as long as Argentina's robust economy could provide the
necessary subsidies to the sector. When the economy stalled in the 1950s, the
deficiencies of OSN began to surface and the Government eventually took actions
to improve performance by decentralizing service provision.   In 1966, the
Government removed the rural sector from OSN oversight by establishing the
Servicio Nacional de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Rural (SNAP), and in 1980
decentralized the water and sewerage services to the provinces (para. 1.02).
Additional streamlining is being done by the Nenem administration by delegating
the administrative and financial responsibilities of OSN from the National
Government to a Board comprised of representatives of the National Government
and the governments of Buenos Aires province and the city of Buenos Aires. The
next step in the restructuring of OSN is the delegation to the private sector



of responsibility for the operation of OSN's infrastructure, Some provincial
governments are also turning over the water and sewer systems to the
municipalities.
1.07      Present Institutional Structure.  The Ministry of Public Works and
Services (MOSP) has responsibility for planning and general oversight of all
the water resources of the country.  The Consejo Federal de Agua Potable y
Saneamiento (COFAPYS; para. 1.16), under the Ministry, enjoys responsibility
for assisting in the financing of investments carried out by the provinces in
both urban and rural communities. Provincial and municipal authorities have
responsibility for the provision of water and sewerage services.
1.08      Provincial water and sewerage entities  differ in administrative
approach.  For example, some are organized as public enterprises (Empresas
Provinciales), with varying degrees of autonomy, while others take the form of
ministerial dependencies, with little administrative and financial autonomy (a
list of provincial institutional arrangements appears in Annex 5). In the case
of the municipalities, some (usually small) manage their own sanitation services,
the most significant of which is the city of Mar del Plata in the Province of
Buenos Aires. OSN in Metropolitan Buenos Aires, which at present is wholly owned
and managed by the National Government, is also being decentralized (para. 1.06).
The dispersed rural population is under the aegis of the National Environmental
Sanitation Directorate (DNSA) in the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. DNSA
also oversees water quality delivered to both rural and urban customers.
C.  Investment and Financial Policie
1.09      When the Government decentralized the water supply and sewerage
services to the provinces in 1980, there were no financial policies to
rationalize how new works would be financed or how on-going operations and
maintenance costs would be met.  Investment and financing plans extended no
farther than the yearly budget. These plans served only to underwrite small,
uncomplicated works to perform the basic service of connecting more consumers
to the existing water and sewerage infrastructure. Larger works were not
undertaken so that service levels eventually grew even more precarious.
1.10      Sector investments between 1971-75 totalled US$640 million (in constant
1984 prices), and in 1976-80 US$900 million.  After  the decentralization,
between 1981-85, investment fell to only US$300 million. In fact, the water
supply and sanitation sector investments decreased faster than any other sector,
falling from 3 to 4% of total public investments in the 1970s to 2% between 1981-
85. This represents about US$3 per capita yearly for the total urban and rural
concentrated population, which is clearly insufficient to keep pace with
population growth or to ameliorate the condition of the unserved population.
1.11      Operations and investments were often financed by grants from the
Central Government or the respective provincial governments. However, under
such financing there was little guarantee that the economics of infrastructure
design and construction or the recovery of the cost of works from operating
surpluses would be considered. Also, grants.had become scarce due to the harsh



macroeconomic environment of the 1980s, which acted to curtail sharply investment
potential as well as the funds available for systems operation and maintenance.
1.12     The absence of efficient financial and tariff policies also produced
uneconomical operation. A survey of the major provinces shows that the sector
is not covering its operating costs (Annex 6). Furc.hermore, the discrepancy
between billings and collections is much too large, with the surveyed provinces
collecting only about 62% of billing (well-managed utilities in the LAC region
collect above 95%).  As a consequence, water entities did not become more
efficient. On the contrary, provincial water supply and sewerage agenicies often
became overstaffed and productivity decreased to one-third of the most efficient
enterprises in Latin America.   Finally, in the absence of effective water
metering, consumers had no incentive to control consumption or waste.
1.13     The present tariff structure dates back to 1963 and corresponds to an
unmetered service. The tariff varies as a function of area, type of service,
and lo ation of property--but not with the consumption level.   Periodic
adjustments are made for changes in input prices like chemicals, energy, and
wages. This tariff structure is inadequate when judged by the degree to which
it promotes efficient water consumption and on equity grounds. First, the fact
that the system is umetered is equivalent to a zero marginal tariff to
consumers; thus, it encourages consumption up to a level where the marginal value
of the last cubic meter consumed is zero. Second, since water consumption is
generally higher among high-income groups, an unmetered service tends to favor
them instead of low-income groups.
1.14      In summary, reasons for weak investment finance have been:  (i) the
rapid decrease in grants from the Central and provincial governments, and (ii)
the inability of provincial water entities to generate a surplus from their own
operations or to take advantage of available external finance due to a lack of
debt-service capacity. However, the fundamental reason for insufficient external
support is the absence of institutional and financial policies that would turn
the provincial agencies into viable instruments for water supply and sewerage
sector development.
D. New Policy Directions
1.15      The MOSP and the provincial governments have taken actions in recent
years to reverse the long decline in service coverage and quality level. The MOSP
assisted by the financial support of the Bank's First Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Loan 2641-AR), developed in 1988 a National Sanitation Plan (NSP), and
began to implement a pilot program in three water companies (Buenos Aires,
Cordoba and Santa Fe) aiming at: (i) rehabilitating deteriorating infrastructure,
and replacing rundown facilities; (ii) extending water services to new urban
areas; and (iii) initiating a national operational improvements program that
promotes water conservation through physical rehabilitation of water systems,
production and consumption metering, and institutional strengthening of the
utilities (para. 1.25).



- S .
1.16      In addition, the Congress, to provide the institutional framework to
carry out the NSP, in 1988 enacted legislation that transformed SNAP (para.
1.06) into the Consojo Federal de Agua Potable y Saneamiento (COFAPYS). COFAPYS
now is the Government's financial agency responsible for assisting the provinces
in developing the sector systematically both in urban and rural communities, in
consonance with the Government's policies and priorities as follows:
(a) increasing participation of the beneficiaries and the private sector
in the proviston of water and sewerage services;
(b) increasing the administrative responsibilities and the mobilization
of resources at the municipal level; and
(c) increasin- the autonomy, efficiency, and financial viability of
existing public water and sewerage entities.
1.17      One important step in the direction of increased participation of
beneficiaries in the provision of services was taken in 1989 with a concession
tendered to a users' cooperative in a section of Metropolitan Buenos Aires for
constructing and operating a sewer system. Several other initiatives of this
type are being considered. These include delegating the operation of the water
and sewer services to private concerns (Metropolitan Buenos Aires) or delegating
selected sector activities (such as meter reading, billing, and collection) to
private concerns as well.
1.18      The National Sanitation Plan (NSP).   The NSP covers three areas:
(i) it provides data on present service coverage and quality that could become
the embryo of a sector data bank; (ii) it sets sector targets for the next 15
years and outlines the policies and resources necessary to reach theta; and (iii)
it identifies the national programs that are considered priorities. The broad
sector objectives of the NSP are to raise service levels and to increase the
efficiency of both investment and operating expenditures.
1.19      The NSP specifies three sector investment priorities:  (i) a national
institution-building program to improve water supply and sewerage enterprise
management, enhance commercialization, strengthen operations and maintenance,
and assist in the development of human resources; (ii) a national program to
expand the coverage of water supply and sewerage services through building both
production and distribution systems; and (iii) a national program to control and
protect the quality of services that supply water for human consumption. The
necessary central financial and technical support to iplement the NSP will be
provided by COFAPYS (para. 1.16).
E. Sector External Financg
1.20      The main sources of external financing for the sector have been the
Inter-American Development Bank and to a lesser extent the Bank. The 1DB-financed
projects have played a major role in the development of the rural water sector,
in the expansion of water and sewerage services in Metropolitan Buenos Aires,
and in the provision of services for housing schemes financed by the Fondo
Nacional de la Vivienda (FONAVI). The Bank, whose involvement in the sector began



- 6 -
as recently as 1986, is assisting municipalities in five provinces in the
execution of small water supply and sewerage networks (Loan 2920-AR). It is also
assisting the National Government and two provincial governments in the
formulation of new policies and plans for sector development as well as in the
implementation of a pilot project for modernizing water entities and
rehabilitating existing infrastructure (Loan 2641-AR). The execution of both
IDB and Bank-financed projects has been adversely affected by the economic events
of recent years.  The following is a brief description of the IDB and Bank
involvement in the sector and, particularly, of the status of ongoing projects.
1.21      SNAP, the predecessor of COFAPYS, received five loans from the IDB to
support its rural programs. The first four loans were already disbursed while
the disbursements for the fifth for US$70 million have yet to start. Between its
creation in 1966 and its transformation into COFAPYS in 1988, SNAP and the
communities invested about US$300 million to construct 960 rural water supply
and sanitation systems. The total population benefitting is estimated at 1.4
million. The fifth IDB-financed project will be executed by COFAPYS and financed
by the IDB loan, as well as by local counterpart funds of US$70 million provided
by the Central and provincial governments, and by the communities; the latter
providing not less than 10% of total project cost. The beneficiaries of this
project are communities up to 15,000 inhabitants.
1.22      In 1986, the Secretariat of Argentine Housing and the Environment
(SVOA) in the Ministry of Health received an IDB loan in an amount of US$122
million, to be used for infrastructure investments related to the housing schemes
financed by the Fondo Nacional de Vivienda (FONAVI).
1.23      A recent IDB loan in the amount of US$98 million provides financing
for a potable water project in the western zone of Buenos Aires.  The loan
agreement has yet to be signed. The local counterpart for this project would be
comprised of funds internally generated by OSN.
1.24      Some municipalities (in the provinces of Buenos Aires, Cordoba, La
Pampa, Neuquen, and Santa Fe) are benefiting from a World Bank Municipal
Development Project (Loan No. 2920-AR), under which small water supply and
sewerage works would be financed. As a rule, the municipal beneficiaries have
populations of less than 15,000, and each investment costs less than US$0.5
million.   The execution of this project has been slow as a result of the
country's economic instability and attendant hyperinflation.
1.25      The first Bank-financed project in the sector (Loan 2641-AR) is a
pilot project that addresses issues similar to the ones under the proposed
project. Three of the -four project components (MOSP, OSN and DIPOS) address
exclusively policy issues, operational improvements of the water entities, and
minor infrastructure rehabilitation, while the fourth (EPOS) also includes a
relatively large investment in building a water treatment plant to replace a
rundown facility. Total project cost amounts to US$120 million and the Bank loan
to US$60 million.
1.26      Project execution has been slow (loan disbursements three and a half
years after loan signature amount to only US$13 million) as a result of the



difficult economic and political situation of recent years in Argentina. This,
in turn, has been reflected in the slow pace of introducing recommended reforms
in the water entities, and in delays in procurement, the latter as a consequence
of the hyperinflation and of the virtual paralysis of public investment during
the last year. This unfavorable situation, however, has changed in recent months
and the prospects for an improved pace in project execution are satisfactory.
First, the project enjoys strong support of the National and provincial
governments since it is an example of the kind of approach and actions required
to translate the Government's broad macroeconomic policies and public sector
reform programs into actions at the sector and enterprise level. And, second,
the work already done by the project entities in the diagnostic and design phases
of their operational improvement programs and in completing bidding documents
for purchasing required materials and equipment are allowing a substantial
acceleration of project execution.
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.27      Key aspects of the Bank's strategy in Argentina include assisting the
Government to: (i) strengthen public finance at the national and provincial
levels; (ii) improve the allocation of public spending; and (iii) increase
private sector participation in providing public services. To this end, the Bank
is supporting reform of state-owned enterprises and of provincial and municipal
finances. The proposed project is an important element in this strategy, since
it is part of a set of actions being taken by the Government to strengthen the
provincial government's capacity to plan, finance and execute financially
sustainable and institutionally manageable investment programs. These actions
are being supported by the Bank through the proposed Provincial Development
Project.   Within this context, the project would help to strengthen public
finances by committing water and sewerage utilities to implement financial
policies that will enable them to operate without government subsidies, and it
would provide Incentives for the participation of private concerns in sector
activities.
1.28      Continued Bank support for the Argentine water supply and sewerage
sector is particularly timely on several accounts. First, for several years,
the Government and the Bank have been discussing policy and institutional
arrangements required to overcome the serious constraints affecting sector
development. The agreements reached during this dialogue are embodied in the
ongoing Water Supply Project (Loan 2641.-AR; para. 1.25), which was the first Bank
operation in the sector in Argentina, as well as in the sector study conducted
by the Bank and the Government in 1987 (IBRD Report No. 6768-AR). The proposed
project is a direct outcome of this dialogue. Secan, Bank participation in the
project has encouraged the use of foreign cofinancing, since the Bank loan would
be compiemented by an IDB loan for an equal amount. Third, Bank support for the
project would complement and build on previous Bank efforts to assist Argentina
in the implementation of stabilization and structural adjustment measures. It
also would help to alleviate the social costs of adjustment by providing services
to low- income groups and by generating employment in project-related activities.
zourth, Bank participation in the project would eneourage the adoption of
measures to improve the environment.



II. THE PROJECT
A. Project-Origin
2.01      The proposed project grew out of an on-going dialogue initiated in 1983
between the Government and the Bank, which sought to formulate and implement a
comprehensive water and sewerage sector reform program. This dialogue has
resulted so far in the First Water Supply Project (Loan 2641-AR), approved in
December 1985, and a sector study conducted by the Bank and the Government (para.
1.28). This second project, based on the experience of the first, and on the
findings and recommendations of the sector study, would help to continue the
modernization of sector activities by extending its coverage to all the water
entities that meet the eligibility criteria established (paras. 2.35 to 2.45).
The project would be cofinanced by the IDB.
B. Project Oblectives
2.02      Overall project objectives, in line with Government's policies, are
to: (i) promote greater sector efficiency and financial viability; (ii) expand
service coverage; (iii) improve the quality of the water supply and sewerage
services while protecting the environment; and (iv) encourage private sector
participation in the water and sanitation sector.
2.03      The project would assist in meeting these objectives by:   (i)
strengthening sector organizations; (ii) committing the utilities to implement
financial policies that allow them to self-generate funds for system
modernization and expansion and to obtain funds from capital markets; (iii)
increasing the efficiency of water use; (iv) fostering the preparation of cost-
effective investment programs; (v) encouraging decentralization of services to
the municipal and community level as well as the participation of the private
sector; and (vi) developing sound environmental protection policies.
2.04      First, to make the sector organizations more efficient, COFAPYS, the
proposed project executing agency, would receive financial and technical
assistance to enable it to discharge its expanded responsibilities.   The
strengthening of COFAPYS' administration would be done in parallel with
developing the capacity of the water supply and sewerage enterprises. This
ultimately will raise the efficiency of both capital and current expenditures
in the sector.
2.05      See      the  project,  by  its  stress  on  improved  operational,
commercial, tariff, and financial policies, will enable the utilities to self-
generate an increasing share of their investment needs and to become eligible
to obtain financing from capital markets. Given the difficult macroeconomic
environment currently in Argentina and the precarious financial conditions of
the water companies, it will probably be some time before It becomes feasible



to finance water and sewerage investment through capital markets; nevertheless.
the project encourages such an evolution.
2.06      Thir, to increase the efficiency of water use, the project would
promote better commercial policies for water supply and sewerage services.
These policies would be targeted to control consumption through effective
metering (which is not now customary in Argentina). Metering consumption will
reduce wastage of scarce water resources and reduce environmental pollution
caused by the discharge of waste water. By introducing tariff policies that base
water charges on the quantity consumed, the project would also help in rectifying
the presently regressive tariff structure, where low-income, low-consuming
residents pay a higher unit price and a proportionally greater share of their
income for water use than nigh-income, high-consuming residents (para. 1.13).
2.07      Fourth, the project would support Government efforts to use funds first
for maintenance and then for rehabilitation, with capacity increases receiving
the least emphasis. The project will be based on selection criteria and design
standards that promote least-cost designs (paras. 2.35 to 2.45). For instance,
if water consumption were effectively controlled, excess water use could be
redirected to satisfy the unmet demand of low-income, low-consuming users. The
corresponding marginal cost is estimated at about 15% of the marginal cost of
expanding production and distribution capacity.   Moreover, insisting that
existing installations be maintained or rehabilitated before new replacement
investments are made, the project would safeguard existing capacity at about 20%
of the replacement cost. By stressing shorter design periods (10 to 15 years
maximum, instead of the present 30 years), excess capacity would be minimized,
increasing economic savings and lowering financial requirements by 40 to 60%.
2.08      Fifth,    the  project would  encourage  provincial and municipal
authorities to seek participation of the commun;les and the private sector in
the provision of water and sewerage services, including activities such as meter
reading, billing and collection, and system maintenance. The project would also
assist in developing the policies and regulatory framework required to encourage
private sector participation in sector activities. This is in line with the
Argentine Government policy to reduce the size of the public sector.
2.09      Sixth, the project would support Government efforts to develop COFAPYS
capabilities to assess the environmental impact of sector projects, and evaluate
proposed actions to minimize adverse effects, if any. COFAPYS in turn will help
develop these capabilities at the provincial level by requiring environmental
assessments of the projects it finances (para. 2.38) and by assisting the water
utilities in this task. To this effect, COPAPYS would hire an experienced
environmental consultant (para. 2.23). The consultant would also help in
establishing an environmental assessment unit in COFAPYS that should be fully
operational by December 31, 1991 (para. 4.01).
C. Proiect Description
2.10      The proposed project, to be implemented between 1990 and 1997 (Annexes
7 and 8), comprises five main components:



. 10 -
I.   Improvement of Existing Operations of Water Utilities, tnrough the
contractIng of consulting services, acquisition of equipment and
materials for:
(a) Institutional Develooment, including:
(i)   improving financial,  accounting and other information
systems;
(ii) providing of audit services;
(iii) improving organizational, planning, administrative, and
logistical systems;
(iv) improving purchasing and inventory management systems; and
(v) developing environmental assessment capabilities.
(vi) technical assistance for defining and preparing plans for
the structural changes in the provision of water supply and
sewerage services at the provincial or municipal level,
including measures to privatize such services, to transfer
to the municipalities the provision of the services or to
establish concessions; and the establishment of suitable
government agencies to regulate such privately or
municipally controlled services, and for the improvement
of incentives for priority provision of public services.
(b) Commercialization of Water Supply and Sewerage Services,
including:
(i)   preparing detailed surveys of water consumers and water and
sewerage connections;
(ii) designing and implementing water metering systems;
(iii) designing and implementing tariff policies for metered
services;
(iv) establishing a comprehensive system of meter readings,
billing, and collection; and
(v)   improving customer services.
(c) ORerational ImUrovements, including:
(i)   macrometering, micrometering and pitometry;



e 11 e
(ii) surveying and mapping water distribution and sewage
collection systems; and
(iii) improving  operational  and  maintenance  systems  and
procedures.
(d)  Training of Personnel, including:
(i)   on-the-jib training;
(ii)  twinning arrangements with modern water supply companies;
(iii) seminars, post-graduate studies, and courses of varying
duration; and
(iv)  preparation or acquisition of training materials.
II. Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Water and Sewerage Systems, consisting
of:
(a) repairing and replacing water distribution and sewer mains;
(b) upgrading and optimizing water and sewage treatment plants; and
(c) constructing and upgrading other facilities required for the
operation of water and sewer systems.
III. Establishment and Expansion of Water and Sewerage Systems, consisting
of:
(a) setting up or expanding water distribution networks and water
system capacity through the construction or rehabilitation of
production, treatment, transmission and storage facilities; and
(b) setting up or expanding sewage collection networks and sewerage
ssystems capacity through the construction or rehabilitation of
treatment, disposal, conveyance and reuse facilities.
IV. Prenaration of Other Studies and Prenaration of Engineering Designs
by the Water Utilities, consisting of technical assistance for:
(a) preparing water supply and sewerage master plans and feasibility
studies and designs, including water quality assurance measures
for the rehabilitation and expansion of water and sewerage systems
of subborrowers;
(b) carrying out research studies aimed at improving the operation
of water and sewerage systems; and



* 12 *
(c) carrying out studies to ascertain potential environmental impact
of proposed projects and propose remedial actions to minimize
adverse effects.
V.  Imrovement of GOFAYYS  operations, consisting of:
(a)  Institutignl D 1ogg=t, including acquisitions and utilization
of materials and equipment, and provision of technical assistance
for developing and improving COFAPYS:
(i)   capabilities  for subproject promotion,  appraisal,  and
supervision, environmental assessment, and financial
management;
(ii) administrative and logistical systems;
(iii) audit; and
(iv) research capabilities.
(b) Training of Personnel, including:
(i)   visits to water supply and sewerage companies;
(ii) courses seminars, and post-graduate studies on water and
sewerage utility management and operations or conducive to
Improving such management and operations; and
(iii) preparation, acquisition, and utilization of training
materials.
D. Project Costs
2.11      Total project cost at current prices (1990-97) is estimated at US$250
million equivalent, excluding taxes and Interest charges. The total foreign
exchange cost (excluding interest on the Bank loan) is estimated at US$141.3
million or 57% of the total cost. A summary of project costs is presented in
Table 2.1, and a detailed cost estimate is given in Annex 8.



* 13 .
Table 2.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(in US$ million)
%              % of
Component                                 Local       Foreign   Foreign  Total  Total
I.   IMPROVEMENT OF EXISTING OPERATIONS
a) Institutional Development               2.8         6.5      70%      9.3        5%
b) Commercialization of                    9.0         20.9     70%      29.8      16%
Water Service
c) Operational Improvements                9.0         20.9     70%      29.8      16%
d) Training of Personnel                   1.7          3.9     70%       5.6       3%
SUBTOTAL (I)                  22.4        52.2      70%     74.6       40S
II.  REHABILITATION OF SYSTEMS            28.0        28.0      50%     56.0       30%
III. EXPANSION OF SYSTEMS                 28.0        18.7      40%     46.6       25%
IV.  PREPARATION OF STUDIES                2.2          5.2     70%      7.5        4%
AND DESIGNS
V.   IMPROVEMENT OF COFAPYS' OPERATIONS   0.6           1.3     70%       1.9        1%
TOTAL BASE COST (Oct. 1990 prices)  81.1         105.4     57%    186.6      100%
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (10%)  8.1         10.5      57%     18.7       10%
PRICE CONTINGENCIES           19.5        25.3      57%     44.8       24%
TOTAL PROJECT COST           108.8       141.3      57%    250.0      134%



- 14 -
The total project cost was allocated to the different components, in accordance
with the priorities established in the NSP and emerging from the project
objectives and from the utilities investment plans reviewed during project
preparation (the appraisal mission visited the water supply companies of
Metropolitan Buenos Ai-is as well as those of 10 provinces that together
represent more than 80% of the urban population). The relative size of the
different categories is, then, a notional idea that reflects overall investment
oriorities but without necessarily applying to individual subprojects.
Provisions for physical and price contingencies have been made, which should
serve as guidelines to COFAPYS in the management of the project when subprojects
are identified and evaluated. The base cost of the project, expressed in October
1990 prices,  is estimated at US$186.6 million,  net of taxes.   Physical
contingencies include 10% for all project components. Price contingencies were
calculated, assuming: (a) a project execution period of about 7 years (1991-
1997); and (b) projected international inflation of: 1991: 2.6%; 1992: 4.1%;
1993: 5.4%; 1994: 4.7%; 1995: 3.6%; 1996: 3.3%; and 1997: 3.0%. Variations in
the exchange rate would compensate for the difference between the local and
international inflation rates.
E. Financing Plan
2.12       The project financing plan includes the proceeds of the proposed Bank
loan, two IDB loans, the water entities internal cash generation, and
contributions from the provinces to the water supply enterprises. The Bank and
IDB would each cover about 40% of total project cost, and the local contribution
would be 20%. The aggregate level of external financing (80%) is justified given
the need to reactivate a sector whose performance has been deteriorating for
years with negative implications for the standard of living of the poor, and on
the availability of services for directly productive activities. The
participation of the Bank and the IDB would take place through parallel
operations. The IDB operations are scheduled to be presented to their Board in
January 1991.   IDB financing would be through one loan of US$70 million
equivalent from the Ordinary Capital, and another loan of US$ 30 million from
the Special Fund with concessionary terms - 3% interest rate. (Proceeds of both
IDB loans would be passed on by the Government to COFAPYS as loans under the same
terms and conditions as those of the IDB loans.) The Bank and the IDB have
closely coordinated project preparation and there is a common understanding on
project objectives, financing plan, and major project components and
conditionality. In addition, the project establishes that approval of the IDB
loan, or an alternative satisfactory to the Bank, should be a condition of
effective-.ess of the Bank loan (para. 4.02).
2.13       The participation of the three sources of funds in the financing of
the project would be as shown in Table 2.2 below. The Bank loan would be made
at the standard variable interest rate with repayment in 17 years, including 5
years of grace.



I IS -
Table 2.2: FINANCING PLAN
(In US$ millions)
8 of
Source of Funds       Local      Ersl nTotal               Tota
IBRD                  29.4       70.6           100.0       40.0%
IB                   29.4       70.6           100.0       40.0%
Water Entities        50.0       .t             50-0       20.0Q
& Provinces
Total                108.8      1413_           250.0      100.0
F.    Borrower and Executing Agency
2.14        The borrower would be the Argentine Republic and the project
executing agency would be COFAPYS (para. 1.16). The proceeds of the loan would
be passed on by the Argentine Republic to COFAPYS as a loan on the same terms
and conditions as those of the Bank loan. The execution of a subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and COFAPYS, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.02).
2.15        COFAPYS' capability to execute the project is analyzed below, with
respect to its institutional role, its organizational structure and personnel,
and its financial profile and financial management. COFAPYS, as the specialized
Government agency for promoting the development of the water supply and
sanitation sector, has the capacity to carry out its functions in close
coordination  with  provincial  authorities,   which,   together  with  the
municipalities, are the ones responsible for the provision of service in their
respective jurisdictions. It also coordinates its activities with sector unions.
The coordination takes place at the entity's Executive Board and at the
Monitoring Board, as the National Government, the provincial governments and
the sector unions are represented on these Boards. The Executive Board consists
of four members: a president and a vice-president appointed directly by the
President of Argentina on recommendation of 140SP and two other members elected,
respectively, by a plurality of the Argentine provinces in an Annual Federal
Assembly and by the National Federation of Water and Sanitation Workers (FENTOS).
LaW 23615, however, reserves for the Government the final say in COFAPYS'
decisions by giving the president and the vice-president of the Executive Board
the right to a double vote in case of a tie. The Monitoring Board is made up
of twelve members: six appointed by the Government, five by the provincial
governments, and one by FENTOS.



2.16        COFAPYS' proposed organizational structure (Annex 9) was approved
by Presidential decree No. 2386 of November 16, 1990. It is based on a mix of
regular staff (110) and staff hired on a short-term basis (40). Most of the
staff (90) was inherited from SNAP and is already in place. Additional staff
would be hired only when the increased level of operations fully justify it.
The staff already in place has valuable experience gained during the execution
of four IDB-financed projects in the rural sector; however, its experience in
the urban sector and with the type of subprojects included in the proposed
operation is limited. Thus, the project Includes a component to strengthen the
entity's executing capacity (para. 2.23). In addition, COFAPYS would be in a
satisfactory position to compete in the public sector for personnel since its
salary structure, by law, corresponds to that of public enterprises and not that
of the Central Government, which commands lower salaries.
2.17        In terms of its financial profile, by law COFAPYS should be an
autonomous entity able to obtain funds from a variety of sources, including:
the Government budget, loans from credit entities, interest on its subloans,
and charges for other services it provides. The law also establishes that
COFAPYS should assume the assets and liabilities of its predecessor (SNAP).
These assets an4 liabilities, however, have a negative present value and, thus,
would greatly constrain the potential effectiveness of COFAPYS. In view of this
and with the aim of facilitating the transition from a heavily subsidized entity
(SNAP) to a financially viable one (COFAPYS), the Government and COFAPYS have
agreed on a plan of action with four main elements as follows:
(a)   COFAPYS will initiate its operations with a low equity (about US$3.0
million it has in its accounts) and would be used as a conduit to
onlend the proceeds of international loans to the Government;
(b)   COFAPYS will act as a Government agency for the execution of the
IDB-financed projects in the rural sector but without assuming
financial responsibility for servicing the loans.   Under this
arrangement, the loans (IDB I through V) will remain on the books
of the Government, and the latter would cover COFAPYS administrative
and operational costs related to the administration of these funds.
COFAPYS will be required to maintain separate accounts for all
revenues and expenses (ircluding administrative costs) associated
with the IDB loans;
(c)   COFAPYS in its role as lender to water and sewerage utilities in the
utban sector, and through operations like the proposed project, will
have to cover all its financial, administrative, and other
intermediation costs with the revenues it generates and without
Government subsidies. COFAPYS will be required to maintain separate
accounts for all operations, and revenues and expenses associated
with its activities in the urban sector.
(d)   COFAPYS, in  line with  the  above, will operate with  a  lean
administrative structure to enable it to onlend to the water entities
at competitive interest rates.



- 1r ?
2.18        Financial projections (Annex 10) for the project show that COFAPYS
would require limited Government financial support until it reaches a level of
revenue-earning assets that allow it to generate a not financial income
sufficient to cover its administrative expenses. During this period, which will
last about four years, the entity's cash-flow deficits will amount to about
US$3.7 million which will be financed from principal and interest income
generated by COFAPYS' current loan portfolio, deferring their payments to the
Government until COFAPYS has reached self-financing status. These deficits are
the result of payments of commitment fees to the Bank and the IDB for funds that
will be committed and onlent by COFAPYS over a seven-year period, and the cost
of administrative expenses and technical assistance to COFAPYS based on an
administrative structure for a level of lending that will increase from about
US$4.0 million during the first year to about US$50.0 million during the fifth
year. Since one of the project objectives is to strengthen COFAPYS, agreement
was reached during negotiations on an Action Plan, including a set of targets
(para. 4.01 and Annex 11) for the operational and financial development of the
entity between 1991 and 1997 based on the entity's financial projections. The
Action Plan and targets include: (a) annual lending; (b) net income and cash
flow; (c) administrative expenses and technical assistance costs; and (d)
portfolio management. Progress toward implementing the Action Plan and achieving
the financial targets would be discussed annually by the Government and COFAPYS
with the Bank (paras. 2.46 and 4.01).
2.19        The broad responsibilities of COFAPYS, together with the need to
maintain transparency in its financial relationships with the Government, make
it necessary to strengthen substantially its financial management capabilities,
particularly in the following areas: (a) asset quality; (b) liquidity position;
and (c) profitability, spreads, and interest rate policy.   To this effect,
COFAPYS would hire a financial consultant satisfactory to the Bank under terms
of reference also satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.23).   Draft terms of
reference for the consultant are shown in Annex 12.
2.20        In addition, to ensure COFAPYS maintains a satisfactory subloan
collection record, agreement was reached during negotiations that COFAPYS include
in the Credit Regulations and in the subloan agreements (para. 2.21 and 4.01),
as appropriate, the following: (a) borrowers and provinces in arrears for 100
more days would not be eligible to receive new loans from COFAPYS, and the
disbursements under previously approved loans would be suspended; (b) COFAPYS
would not extend loan maturities; (c) COFAPYS would require the borrowers to
provide appropriate guarantees for the repayment of subloans, including
rescinding revenue-sharing funds to provincial governments if they are
guaranteeing subloan repayments; and (d) a province that fails in meeting its
guarantee obligations would be eligible to act as guarantor of a new subloan only
after three months after it becomes current with its obligations as guarantor.
G. Implementation
2.21        COFAPYS would onlend the proceeds of the Bank and the IDB loans to
water supply and sewerage entities in urban areas (15,000 inhabitants or more),
under terms and conditions included in the entity's Credit Regulations



18 -
(Reglamento de Credito), a draft of which was received by the Bank at
negotiations and it would be in full force and effect as a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 4.01). The Credit Regulations would include:   (a) the
project objectives; (b) the entities and subproject eligibility criteria; (c)
the terms and conditions for the subloans; (d) the operational and administrative
procedures; (e) the subproject evaluation guidelines; and (f) the currency risk
regulation (para. 2.26). Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Credit
Regulations would be reviewed annually and revised, if necessary (para. 4.01).
2.22        A draft of the subsidiary subloan agreements between COFAPYS and
prospective subborrowers was also received by the Bank, and agreement was reached
during negotiations on such agreements. Specific conditions included in subloan
agreements are listed in Annex 13. The credit regulations and the model subloan
agreements would apply to subloans made with the proceeds of both Bank and IDB
loans. To facilitate the execution of the project, particularly the procurement
process, COFAPYS would apply the proceeds of the Bank and IDB loans to different
subprojects.
2.23        COFAPYS' predecessor  (SNAP) acted as an intermediary for five IDB
loans to the rural water supply sector, and demonstrated the required
administrative experience to supervise the procurement under the loan and to
disburse the loan   proceeds.   COFAPYS also has gained experience in the
supervision of urban water supply projects similar to the required for the
proposed project, in that, for the last two years, the project executing unit
for the ongoing Bank-financed project (Loan 2641-AR) has been located in COFAPYS.
In addition, and to strengthen its project executing capacity, COFAPYS has hired
four local consultants financed under the fifth IDB loan. These consultants are
assisting COFAPYS and the water utilities in the identification and preparation
of subprojects to be financed under the project. Despite this, COFAPYS would
be further strengthened during project execution by hiring five consultants
satisfactory to the Bank with broad international experience, or in water
entities more developed than the ones in Argentina, in the following areas: (a)
technical evalu!tion of water supply and sewerage projects; (b) socio-economic
evaluation of water supply and sewerage projects; (c) commercialization of water
and sewerage services and financial management of water entities; (d) financial
management of credit institutions; and (e) environmental assessment. COFAPYS
would maintain the consultants for areas (a), (b), (c), and (e) during a four-
year period, and the consultant for area (d) for two years. COFAPYS would hire
the above consultants within 120 days after loan signature (para. 4.01). The
five core consultants will be complemented,  as necessary,  by short-term
consultants with highly specialized skills. The scope of the task of the core
consultants is outlined in the subproject evaluation guidelines (Annex 14) and
in Annex 12 (TOR for financial management consultant).
2.24        Continuous COFAPYS supervision of the provincial enterprises with
the assistance of the core consultants would pave the way for manageable and
effective  Bank  supervision.    Nevertheless,  the project would  require  a
supervision coefficient of about 16 staff weeks per year to allow visits not only
to COFAPYS' iieadquarters but also short visits to four or five subproject
executing agencies per year. This supervision would aim at monitoring both the
development of COFAPYS as project executing agency, and the performance of



* 19 -
subborrowers.   The latter would place special emphasis on compliance with:
(i) environmental  protection  guidelines;  (ii) operational  and  financial
efficiency indicators for water entities (a tentative list of monitoring
indicators is included in Annex 15); and (iii) legal agreements related to cost
recovery, metering, billing and collection, selection of beneficiaries, and
bidding procedures.
2.25        Relending Terms and Conditions. COFAPYS subloans will be denominated
in dollars at the same variable interest rate as the Bank loan, plus a spread,
to be updated in agreement with the Bank from time to time, for the financing
of the project administrative expenses, the credit risk, and the cross-currency
exchange risk from the Bank and the IDB's Currency Pooling Systems. The initial
spread will be six percentage points (four to cover administrative and credit
risks, and two to cover the cross-currency exchange risk), It would also charge
a commitment fee at least equal to the one charged by the Bank. As the required
spread should change over time in response to variations in the volume of revenue
earning assets of the project, and of the corresponding administrative and
operational expenses, as well as to the uncertainties of the fluctuating exchange
rates and compositions of the Bank and the IDB baskets of currencies, agreement
was reached during negotiations on the annual review and, if necessary, revision
of initial terms and conditions, to ensure they are adequate to cover the cost
of resources and cash-flow requirements, and are competitive with other sources
of funds available to the sector (para. 4.01).
2.26        It was agreed during negotiations that COFAPYS would establish before
February 28, 1991 a Currency Risk Fund into which payments of the cross-currency
exchange risk margin would be deposited. The Fund would be managed in accordance
with a currency risk regulation that would be part of the Credit Regulations
(para. 2.21).
2.27        COFAPYS, taking into consideration the disbursement percentages for
the loan proceeds (para. 2.31 and Annex 16) would determine its percentage
participation  in each  svoproject.    COFAPYS'  percentage participation by
investment category would be established in the Credit Regulations (para. 2.21).
H. Procurement
2.28        Procurement under the proposed project would be carried out in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement (May 1985) and, for ICB with
the Bank Sample Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works and Goods. Consultant
services would be contracted in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of
Consultants (August 1981). Exemption from any legislation and regulations of
the Borrower that mandate the use of domestic goods and services or limit the
international procurement of goods, works, and services, would apply to
procurement financed under this loan and would be a condition of loan
effectiveness  (para. 4.02).    COFAPYS,  in  turn,  would  require  that  its
subborrowers be exempt from similar legislation at the provincial level. Model
bidding documents for the procurement of goods, works and consulting services
have been prepared by COFAPYS and submitted to the Bank for review. The bidding
documents for goods have already been approved by the Bank, whereas those for
civil works have been reviewed by the Bank and the comments sent to COFAPYS.



* 20 -
Agreement was reached during negotiations that COFAPYS would require its
subborrowers to use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.01).
2.29        Contracts for civil works exceeding US$4.0 million and for equipment
and materials exceeding US$200,000 would be awarded based on international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Contracts for civil works amounting to
between US$50,000 and US$4.0 million, and purchases of equipment and material
estimated to cost between US$25,000 and US$2C1,000 would be carried out through
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The local
bidding procedures to be used for works and goods to be procured under LCB have
been reviewed by the Bank and have been generally found acceptable. Contracts
amounting to less than US$50,000 for civil works would be procured on the basis
of bids from a minimum of three qualified contractors. Contracts for goods
amounting to less than US$25,000 would be procured from local sources based on
price quotations from at least three local bidders. It is estimated that with
the limits established for ICB and LCB, contracts awarded through ICB would
account for about 42% of the estimated project cost.
2.30        The Bank's prior review of procurement documentation  (bidding
documents, bid evaluation, award and contract) would apply to: (i) all works
exceeding US$4 million and all goods exceeding US$200,000; (ii) the first
contract of each type (civil works and equipment and materials) in each
participating province to ascertain that the local bidding procedures are applied
correctly; and (iii) one civil work contract and one equipment and material
contract for each province in every two-year period thereafter. The threshold
established for the Bank's prior review of bidding documentation is expected to
result in coverage of about 50% of the estimated total project cost (including
consulting services). A breakdown of project cost by procurement method is given
in Table 2.3.



. 21 .
Table 2.3:  PROJECnTOST BY PLOCUREHENT METHOD I
(In US$ millions)
lSE  L:B    Other     Total
Civil Works
Rehabilitation Works                   0.0      25.0      5.0     30.0
(11.0)            (11.0)
Expansion Works                       12.0      25.5      0.0     37.5
(3.5)    (7.5)            (11.0)
Subtotal      12.0     50.5      5.0     67.5
(3.5)   (18.5)            (22.0)
Equipment
Improvement of Existing Operations    40.0      20.0      3.0     63.0
(18.0)   (10.6)    (1.4)   (30.4)
Rehabilitation Works                   30.0     12.0      3.0     45.0
(12.0)    (4.5)    (1.5)   (18.0)
Expansion Works                       20.0      12.0      0.0     32.0
(8.0)    (2.0)            (10.0)
Improvement of COFAPYS' Operations     0.5      0.5       0.5      1.5
(0.3)    (0.4)    (0.3)    (1.0)
Subtotal      90.5     45.5      6.5    142.5
(38.3)   (17.5)    (3.2)   (59.0)
'onsulting Services
Improvement of Existing Operations     0.0      0.0      30.0     30.0
(14.5)   (14.5)
Studies and Designs                    0.0      0.0      10.0     10.0
(4.0)    (4.0)
Improvement of COFAPYS Operations      0.0       0.0      1.0      1.0
(0.5)    (0.5)
Subtotal       0.0      0.0     40.0     40.0
(19.0)   (19.0)
TOTAL    102.4     94.9     52.7    250.0
(41.8)   (36.0)   (23.2)  (100.0)
........... ..............................................................
Ij Amounts in brackets show allocations from loan proceeds.



-22 
I. Disbursements
2.31        Loan proceeds would be disbursed in seven years, with a closing date
of December 31, 1997 (Annex 17) consistent with the standard disbursement profile
for investment projects in Argentina. The final date for approval by COFAPYS
of subloan proposals would be June 30, 1996 (para. 4.01).  The disbursement
percentages indicated below would apply:
(a)   100% of total expenditures for consultants, technical assistance,
training, travel related to training and improvement of existing
operations, and audits (Annex 17);
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and materials under all
categories;
(c)   75% of local expenditures for equipment and materials for categories
"Improvement of Existing Operations of Subborrowers" and "Improvement
of COFAPYS' Operations";
(d)   75% of total expenditures for civil works under the category
'Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Water and Sewerage Systems";
(e)   60% of total expenditures for civil works under the category
"Establishment and Expansion of Water and Sewerage Systems"; and
(f)   60% of local expenditures for equipment and materials under the
categories "Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Water and Sewerage
Systems" and "Establishment and Expansion of Water and Sewerage
Systems".
2.32        All disbursements up to US$1.0 million equivalent for civil works
and up to US$200,000 equivalent for equipment and materials would be made on the
basis of certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). The documentation for SOE
expenditures would not be sent to the Bank but would be retained by COFAPYS and
made available for inspection by Bank staff. All other disbursements would be
made on the basis of full contractual documentation. A Special Account in US
dollars would be set up in a financial institution satisfactory to the Bank.
The initial deposit would be up to US$4.0 million, which represents an estimated
four months of expenditures under the loan. The Special Account would be managed
by COFAPYS.
2.33        Beginning one year from loan effectiveness, the Bank will annually
review progress in project execution and, in particular, progress in loan
disbursement.   This is to ensure that the Bank's participation in project
financing does not exceed 40% of the total project cost over the long term. In
the event the Bank's overall participation exceeds a cumulative 40% of total
project cost at the end of any given year, it will request COFAPYS to slowdown
the approval of subloans during the subsequent year to reduce the Bank's
participation to a cumulative 40% of the value of the subloans approved by the
end of the subsequent year (para. 4.01).



-23 -
J. Accounting and Auditing
2.34        With the assistance of consultants under the fifth IDB-financed
project, COFAPYS will implement an information and accounting system that
facilitates the preparation of balance sheets, profit-and-loss statements,
sources and applications of funds, and other reports necessary for the entity's
financial management. Agreement was reached during negotiations that COFAPYS
will take the necessary actions to implement the system in time for the
preparation of its 1990 financial statements (para. 4.01). COFAPYS would have
its annual financial statements, including balance sheet, profit and loss
statements, and sources and applications of funds audited by private external
auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and under terms of reference also satisfactory
to the Bank. The auditor's report would include separate opinions on the above
financial statements as well as on the Special Account, the Statement of
Expenditure records, and the project accounts. COFAPYS' audited financial
statements would be presented to the Bank by no later than June 30 each year,
beginning with those for FY90 (para. 4.01). Subproject executing entities would
be required to submit annual audit reports to COFAPYS prepared also by private
auditors and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The auditor's reports would
be produced no later than June 30 each year and include separate opinions on:
(a) the entity's overall financial statements; (b) the project accounts; and (c)
the performance targets set forth in the subloan agreements with COFAPYS
(para. 4.01). COFAPYS would make the reports available to Bank supervision
missions for their review and comments.  To facilitate the hiring of competent
auditors and the timely compliance with the audit requirements of the project,
the cost for services by private auditors would be eligible for financing from
the loan proceeds.
K.    Suboroject Lending Policy and Eligibility Criteria
2.35        To introduce the policy objectives and the sector reforms at the
subproject level, COFAPYS would apply an agreed set of techno-economic,
environmental, institutional, and financial criteria in the selection and
appraisal of subprojects. Also, given the importance of these criteria as a
means to meet the project's objectives, the Bank would closely follow-up on
COPAPYS' ability to apply them in all stages of the project cycle (para. 2.44).
2.36        The eligibility criteria would be contained in the Credit Regulations
that COFAPYS would adopt as its guidelines for evaluating project proposals
(para. 2.21). The most important criteria of the lending policy are summarized
below and the detailed subproject evaluation guidelines are provided in Annex 14.
2.37        Techno-Economic Criteria.  All projects should require a technical
and economic evaluation to demonstrate its feasibility, and that it is the least-
cost alternative, as such concept is defined in the Credit Regulations.
2.38        Environmental Criteria. COFAPYS, with the assistance of consultants,
will develop environmental assessment guidelines acceptable to the Bank. These



* 24 -
guidelines will be used to screen all projects submitted to COFAPYS for financing
as well as help to identify the required action to implement a proposed
subproject in an environmentally sound and cost-effective manner.    Each
subproject, therefore, will require the preparation of an environmental impact
study as a condition of eligibility for financing under the project.
2.39        Institutional Criteria.   To qualify as beneficiaries of COFAPYS
financing, project executing entities should be water supply and sewerage
entities with sufficient administrative and financial autonomy to operate the
system in an entrepreneurial manner that allows the provision of an adequate
service to its customers.   At a minimum, these entities should have full
authority to: (a) manage their personnel (hiring, promoting, and firing); (b)
manage their liquid assets (cash, bank deposits, and other) to ensure these
assets obtain the best return commercially available; (c) enter into contractual
agreements, and also apply corrective measures, such as disconnection of services
and legal actions, to collect promptly accounts receivable; and (d) establish
a commercial accounting system.
2.40        All rehabilitation and expansion projects would be accompanied by
a component to improve existing operations. This would help the water entities
to increase their operational efficiency and promote good service at low cost,
while at the same time developing their capability to contribute to the
investment program from its own resources. The component would include at least
the elements mentioned below, and a timetable for their implementation and for
the attainment of specific targets:
(a)   a plan for metering the consumption of at least 30% of consumers that
account for at least 50% of total water consumption;
(b)   the design and implementation of a tariff system based on metered
consumption;
(c) a plan for improving billing and collection systems, including
specific targets for the ratio of collection to billings; and
(d)   a plan  for  improving  the  systems'  operation  and maintenance
practices, including the implementation of budgets in terms of tasks
and monitorable indicators (i.e. routine maintenance, emergency
repairs, rehabilitation, replacement), and the allocation of
sufficient resources (labor, equipment, materials and supplies).
2.41        The elements and targets under the above mentioned project component
for improvement of existing operations would be reflected in the subloan
agreements. Other performance indicators to be used by COFAPYS and subloan
applicants for monitoring project execution are shown in Annex 15.   The
covenanted targets under a repeater operation should be equal to or better than
under the previous one.
2.42        Financial Criteria.   To qualify  for the financing of system
rehabilitation and service expansion, an entity should have, by the time of
subloan effectiveness, sufficient operating revenues to cover all operational



and maintenance costs as well debt servicing, and should submit a financial plan
for the project execution period, which includes its contribution to project
financing from funds internally-generated by operations, or from user
contributions for the equivalent of at least 70% of the required local
counterpart. The water and sewerage entities should not make any commitment
under the subloan agreement before it becomes effective. The funds required to
complete the financing of the project could be obtained from any other source.
The agreements to be entered into with the provinces should specify their
commitment to adjust tariffs when necessary, to ensure the generation of the
required operating revenues. Also, a repeater-project executing agency under
all subloans should be in compliance with the covenants of the previous subloans
before becoming eligible for an additional subloan.
2.43        To ensure that sector reform objectives are sufficiently inclusive,
executing entities not meeting the above institutional and financial criteria
would still be eligible for the financing of: (a) technical assistance to be
provided for institutional development, commercialization of services and
operational improvements (part I of the Project); and (b) investments in system
rehabilitation and upgrading (part II of the Project) up to the equivalent of
US$10.00 per inhabitant served by the entity, with a maximum total of US$1
million.  The maximum aggregate financing available to entities not meeting
eligibility requirements would be US$20 million.
2.44        To ensure that COFAPYS and the water entities develop projects fully
consistent with project objectives and with the lending policy and eligibility
criteria, agreement was reached during negotiations that the Bank would make a
prior review of the first six subprojects to be financed by the Bank loan and
all subprojects whose total cost is US$5.0 million or more (para. 4.01). In
addition, to ensure prompt project execution, agreement was reached during
negotiations that as a condition of loan effectiveness there should be at least
three subprojects, satisfactory to the Bank, eligible for financing under the
project (para. 4.02). The consultants hired under the IDB-financed project
(para. 2.23) would assist in the preparation of the subprojects.
2.45        To ensure proper coordination and policy consistency of the proposed
project with the potential Provincial Development Project, agreement was reached
during negotiations that when the financing plan for a beneficiary water entity
under the proposed project would require the provincial or municipal government
financial support including counterpart funding of any kind or guarantee, the
province or the municipality must have a current account surplus or a Financial
Action and Investment Plan (FAIP), including such funding, satisfactory to the
Bank and the Government (para. 4.01). A FAIP would include, among others,
concrete proposals for revenue enhancement or expenditure reduction that would
result in a current account surplus during the FAIP implementation period.
Provinces and municipalities not meeting these eligibility criteria would be
eligible, however, for financing institutional development and rehabilitation
subprojects within the limits established in para. 2.43 for water entities not
meeting their corresponding institutional and financial criteria. The Provincial
Development Project, in turn, would establish that water supply and sewerage
projects would not be eligible for financing under that project if there are
funds not yet committed under the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project.



- 26 -
Also, any water supply project to be financed under the Provincial Development
Project should meet the requirements established in the Water Supply Project.
L.   Annual Prolect Implementation Review
2.46        Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government and
COFAPYS will exchange views annually with the Bank on progress in project
execution. These exchanges would take place in March of each year, starting in
1992, and will include: (a) progress made by COFAPYS in implementing its Action
Plan and in achieving its financial performance targets (para. 2.18);
(b) adequacy of the terms and conditions for the subloans (para. 2.25);
(c) COFAPYS' compliance with credit regulations and enforcement of provisions
under the subloan agreements (paras. 2.21 and 2.22), particularly in relation
to consumption metering, billing and collection, operation and maintenance,
financial performance, and auditing; (d) achievement of Bank's agreed overall
percentage participation in total project cost; (e) implementation of
environmental provisions; and (f) methodologies and assumptions for updating
COFAPYS' financial and operational performance targets for the present and each
of the fiscal ye&rs until 1997. If any of these reviews shows an unsatisfactory
performance by COFAPYS, or lack of enforcement of its credit regulations and
subloan agreements, the Government and COFAPYS should take, by April 30. all
necessary actions satisfactory to the Bank to improve performance (para. 4.01).
III. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Benefits
3.01        The project would yield important benefits in the form of higher
water sales and cost savings resulting from the investments to promote
efficiency.    The  economic  justification  for  the  National  Program  of
Commercialization includes reducing excessive consumption through metering, more
rational tariff policies, and better administrative control. Current average
production levels often are as high as 600 liters per capita/day (lcd) (see Annex
3). Assuming that water losses represent 33% of production, the net consumption
without metering is frequently close to 400 lcd. Based on the experience in
other countries, metering and improved commercial systems can lover consumption
by about 40% from about 400 lcd to a satisfactory level of about 240 lcd. The
drop in not consumption would transform wasteful consumption into water to serve
other consumers and help defer investments. The equivalent marginal cost of
saving water would be about US$0.04 per cubic meter, or only about 15% of the
marginal cost of expanding production and distribution capacity to meet future
demand. With tariff levels that approach this marginal cost, these investments
will have a high benefit-cost ratio.
3.02        The investments in Rehabilitation and Selective Capacity Increases
will be contingent on a cost-benefit analysis that shows a minimum internal rate
of return (IRR) of 12% (Annex 14). However, on the basis of the experience with
other water and sewerage systems rehabilitation projects financed by the Bank
in Latin America, it is expected that most investments in this category show



-2
rates of return substantially above the minimum (44% estimated for a similar
component under the First Water Supply Project in Argentina - Loan 2641-AR; 25%
in Uruguay - Loan 2921-UR; and 14% in Ecuador - Loan 2774-EC). Moreover, the
cost-benefit analysis recommended does not include consumer surplus, i.e., those
incremental benefits over and above the financial payments for water consumption.
If this consumer surplus were included, the economic rate of return (ERR) would
rise substantially above the IRR.
3.03        The economic justification for the investments in Institutional
Development and Human Resource Development is equally obvious, although often
more difficult to quantify. These investments will complement the main project
investments by raising the efficiency of the sector during the course of the
loan, thereby reducing overall expenses.
B. Beneficiaries Inmact
3.04        The project would help to alleviate the social costs of the Argentine
stabilization and adjustment programs by providing water and sewerage services
to low-income groups and by generating employment in project related activities.
Also, under the project's commercialization program, tariffs that are now based
on unmetered consumption would be replaced by a progressive tariff that will rise
with consumption levels. Such tariffs would make it possible to cross-subsidize
low-income consumers and ensure equity since the users will pay based on water
consumed.
C. Environmental Impact
3.05        The project will have a highly positive environmental impact as
investments will be directed mainly to reduce water consumption and, as a
consequence, the amount of sewage disposal. In addition, all subprojects will
require an environmental impact study (categories B and C) to identify benefits
and problems, if any, and effective solutions to correct them.
D. Risks and Saf-egurds
3.06        The main project risks are financial, institutional, and political.
The financial risks pertain to the availability of domestic financing and the
foreign exchange risk. The risk related to the domestic financing has been
minimized by: (a) the project stressing an appropriate strategy for investments
and policy reforms that will strengthen the commercialization and the
administrative capability of provincial water supply and sewerage entities; (b)
the relatively small size of the project when compared with the potential market
for the funds represented by Metropolitan Buenos Aires and all the provinces;
and (c) the relatively small local counterpart required, which amounts to US$50
million over the project execution period. The foreign exchange risk to be
passed on to the water entities represents a substantial challenge to their
managements which lack experience in this area and are subject to price setting
by provincial authorities that also lack similar sophistication. The risk is
reduced by the project emphasis on strengthening the management of the water
entities and their financial performance.   Within this context,  COFAPYS'
financial consultants would also provide advice to the water entities in the



- 28 
management the foreign exchange risk. The risk is also acceptable given that
the National and provincial governments policy is to ensure that the provision
of water and sanitation services is financially viable.
3.07        The institutional risks pertain to project success depending on:
(a) COFAPYS' ability to onlend under agreed economic, financial, institutional,
and environmental criteria; and (b) the provincial water supply and sewerage
enterprises ability to concentrate first in the areas of institutional reform
and investments in maintenance and rehabilitation, areas where they are now weak.
These institutional risks are reduced since COFAPYS' predecessor (SNAP) had a
satisfactory project implementation record for four previous loans it received
from IDA. Also, COFAPYS and the provincial enterprises will receive technical
assistance by a team of consultants (see para. 2.23), as specified in the Bank
loan.
3.08        The political risk results from changes in the policy environment
for the water supply and sewerage sector. This risk is greatly reduced since
there is a broad political consensus that the water supply and sewerage sector
has been neglected and urgently needs a policy reorientation.   It is also
minimized by the compatibility between the project objectives and the
Government's policy to increase the efficiency of the public sector and to
improve public sector finances. Moreover, the Menem administration by further
decentralizing OSN has taken steps that support the project objectives.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01        The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a)   that COFAPYS will establish an environmental assessment unit by
December 31, 1991 (para. 2.09);
(b)   a Plan of Action for the operational and financial development of
COFAPYS (para. 2.18);
(c)   Credit Regulations for the project, including initial interest rate
and fee structure, measures to maintain a satisfactory subloan
collection record, eligibility criteria, annual review of the
Regulation (paras. 2.20, 2.21, 2.25, 2.26, 2.27 and 2.36 through
2.45);
(d)   annual review and, if necessary, revision of the Credit Regulations
(para. 2.21)
(e)   model for subloan agreements under which the proceeds of the Bank
and the IDB loans would be onlent (para. 2.22);
(f)   that COFAPYS hire the consultants for technical and socio-economic
project evaluations, commercialization, financial management of



' 29 -
credit institutions, and environmental assessment, respectively
(para. 2.23); and
(g) that COFAPYS will establish before February 28, 1991 a Currency Risk
Fund (para. 2.26);
(h)  that COFAPYS and  its subborrowers would be exempt from any
legislation that limits competition in procurement under the project,
and that COFAPYS and its subborrowers will use standard bidding
documents satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.28);
(i)  the final date for approval of subloans will be June 30, 1996
(para. 2.31);
(j)  anmual review by the Bank of progress in loan disbursements to ensure
that the Bank's participation does not exceed 40% over the life of
the loan (para. 2.33);
(k)  COFAPYS will implement a new accounting system (para. 2.34);
(1)  submission to the Bank of COFAPYS' audited financial statements and
causing subproject executing entities to carry out audits
(para. 2.34);
(m)  prior review by the Bank of the first six subprojects to be financed
with Bank loan resources, as well as subprojects whose total cost
is the equivalent of US$5 million or more (para. 2.44); and
(n)   that when the financing plan for a beneficiary water entity would
require the provincial or municipal government financial support or
guarantee, the province or the municipality must have a current
account surplus or present to the Government and to the Bank a
satisfactory Financial Action and Investment Plan (para. 2.45); and
(o) the Government and COFAPYS will exchange views annually with the Bank
on: (i) progress made toward implementing COFAPYS' Action Plan and
achieving its operational and financial targets; (ii) COFAPYS'
compliance with credit regulations and enforcement of subloan
agreements; (iii) Bank's overall percentage participation in project
cost; (iv) subloan terms and conditions; and (v) compliance with
environmental provisions. The Borrower and COFAPYS would also update,
in consultation with the Bank, COFAPYS' operational and financial
targets (para. 2.46).
4.02        Conditions of effectiveness for the Bank loan would be:
(a)  the approval of the IDB loan or an alternative satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 2.12);



v 30 -
(b)   the execution of the subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and COFAPYS (para. 2.14);
(c)   the full force and effectiveness of COFAPYS' Credit Regulations
(para. 2.21);
(d)   the Borrower and COFAPYS taking the necessary action to allow
procurement in accordance with Bank requirements and without
limitation to international competition (para. 2.28);
(e)   the preparation of at least three subprojects eligible for financing
under the project (para. 2.44).
Recommendation
4.03        With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million equivalent, to be repaid over
a period of 17 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Washington, D.C., November 26, 1990



AR4WNTINA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
COERAGE - Concetrated Populatin Connected to Pubtlc Water Suppl!t
..  __....... ..  _.*_ .____.__._. _  ......................................................... .__...... . .... .
(Urbrn and Rural Conoentreted)
veas  39106                                                 Y"r 29  M3)
rPpl.           Ne. of    No. et          Conn., Meers.   Pepol.             NO. of    llo. of         to". , Motors,
Served    X   Connet.   Metes         X   X ot   1 Of       Served    I   Conect.   Ueor.            S.f X      s Of
Prowlace          (million) Serve  (tbouasnd) (thousand) Meterod TOTAL  TOTAL  (eIlilon) Seve  (thousand) (thousand) Mtered TOTAL  TOTAL
Capitel Fderal                 2.92  166.01    43.0        64.0  1.SM   11.2X    16.6C     2.0  1UO.6      46.0       211.0  5t.96  S.9X      6.ox
Oran  eoo   Airte              2.70  40.8X      677.1     148.0  26.91  14.61   85.4        4.6   ".6.       96S.9     402.0  60.61  12.41   12.42
1 Subtotal OII                    5.71  U.1X    1949.7       210.0  20.21  26.21   50.9X       7.69  66.71   1427.6       713.7  6C.O1  18841   16.21
2 Soeno Alreo (1)                 2.67   60.CX    "7.1         N/A   N/A  18.21    N/A         4.66  76.0    1162.0       6S1.0  56.6s 14.9X   14.01
a Cordebn                         I."   69.2.      407.8      76.0 1A.4A   9.9X01   1N.21       2.67  90.0X       .6      334.2  6O.X  8             .71
4 Crotehs                         1.a8  6t2.21    466.3       766   1A   0.0X  N1A 2.6   70.0X                 16.5       34.2  66.6    1 67X    1
5   re                            6.26  6.3x       44.7        4.0   8.901  1.       1.6X      6.25  70.91      64.0       32.9  6.6X   G.TX sa
6 Meados                          6.91  62.1    246.0         84.0  13.0   6.9X    6.2X        1.31  96.61    862.6       246.9  706.6   4.611   8.0X
7   aue                           6.26   83.9X     61.6        7.1  13.9%   1.2%     1.7X      0."  966.6      114.0       62.7   561OX  1.51     1.611
6 lRio Negro                      6.82   *4.2X     62.9       16.6  28.71  1.6%      4.41      S."   90.01      70.0       46.9  "6.61  6.6X      1.2OX
* $se Josn                        6.6   t9.6X       61.4       6.0   9.61  2.0X      1.9t      6.46   90.01    111.7       56.6  56.61   1.41     1.41
16 Seant Fe                        1.71  61.71    427.9        20.0   4.7X  10.41    4.61x      2.66  96.6      746.0       78.0  60.61   0.61     90
11 jSestlege del Eatero            6.81   U.961     86.0        4.0   7.61   1.61    1.11       6.76  60.61    168.4        76.2  66.6    1.901
Totel Provie Vlelst  (2)    14.44             $172.6    366.76           76.9    92.8      22.28           4094.1U   2609.41          64.61   6.4X
Ttal Contry                   10.66  00.01   4126.0       412.5  16.0  166.6   166.61    U1.22  90.0.1    7604.0    3062.60  $6.1166 IOO.OX  l0.
Visited, X of 1otbal            7.51             76.91     92.11                            71.21i           64.01      oa.4x
IL) gelu    teW reas under the juriudictioe of M.
2) V181=d    pert o1f tm  ecor ctuy w  of the preparatios of the project.
) sdl"tiv  targets.



ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
COVERAGE - Concentrated Population Connected to Public Sewerage.
(Urban and Rural Concentrated)
Year 1986                          Year 2000(3
|                           | Popul.            No. of Conn., | Popul.             No. of Conn., |
I                           ) Served      t    Conn.    I of  I Served       t    Conn.    I of
Provnince                 1mlion) Served (thousand) TOTAL I(million) Served (thousand) TOTAL
._...__._.____ ____ ___  ----           ------____-----------__ -- --_ __ _--------------- --------------
Capital Federal                  2.92  100.0S    393.7  16.421      2.92  100.0?    393.7    6.5?S
loran Buenos ALres               1.83   31.9t    281.3  11.7Z1    2.91   50.01   449.1    7.421
1  Subtotal 05N               |    4.75   54.9Z    675.0  28.0?l    5.84   66.72   842.8   13.9fl
2  Buenos Aires (1)                 1.71   32.5?    428.7   17 821     2.66   40.0?    664.0   10.92?
S Cordoba                           0.45   19.2?    113.0   4.71?      1.49   50.02    371.4    6.1?)
4j Corrientes                       0.20   29.3?     39.3   1.6?1      0.60   70.0?    117.9    1.921
S  Forgosa                          0.07   29.22     13.2    0.5?)     0.18   50.01     33.0    0.5zS
6 IMendo:a                          0.48   43.32    129.5    5.42l    0.96   70.0?    259,9    4.3t2
7 iNueuen                     |    0.06   19.42      13.0  OS.1       0.32   50.0?     68.3    1.12)
A IRio Negro                        0.13   34.21     28.2   1.221      0.28   70.02     60.7    1.021
9 iSan Juan                         0.07   15.7i     16.0    0.721     0.19   35.02     44.0    0.7z1
10 ISanta Fe                         0.77  28.52    191.5    8.02       2.32   70.02    580.2    9.62)
11 lSantiago del Estero        1    0.07   11.9?      14.0    0.6z      0.66   70.0?    131.6    2.211
I---------------------------I-------- --------------------------    ------- ------------------
Total Provinces Visited (2)1     8.76   43.72   1661.4   69.02     15.48   60.62   3173.7   52.32
Total Country                    9.63   35.01   2406.3  100.0?     24.28   70.02   6069.8  100.01)
)Viaited# S of total             91.0!             69.02             63:72            52.3S
Xotes.
(1) Visited as part of the sector study and of the preparation of the project.
(2) Including federal Capital and 10 provinces.
(3) Indicatives targets.



-ANNEX 3
ARGENTIA
WATEm SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER PRODUCTION
(3) Capacity
Year 1986   Year 2000   Increase
Per  I      Per
ITotal CapitalTotal CapitalTo tal     |
I        Province           IfCMKyr lpcd IMCV/yr lped IMAM/yr X   I
ICapital Federal            I 683  642                         ,
IGran Buenos Aires          f 405  397
I ISubtotal OSN                 1090  523  1230   444 I 140  11.82
2 iBuenos Aires (1)              N/A  N/A   N VIA  NIA    N VIA   N/A |
3 iCordoba                    1 210. 354 1 293   301 1  83  39.721
4 [Corrientes                 I  42  322 I  60   274 I  18  42.821
S lPonmosa                    j  46  630 1  48  536 1   2   4.1:,
6 jMendoza                       188  569 ! 230   483 1  42  22.521
7 1Neuquen                    I  37  390 1  72  331 I  35  95.7Z1
8 1.io Negro                     N VIA  NIA | N/A   MIA | N/i  V/A |
9 jSan Ju=a                       56  438 I  65   3731    9  16.6XI
10 ISanta Fe                   1 283  453 1 419   385 I 136  48.2Z1
1- ]Santiago del Estero        I NIA  NV/  j VIA  N/A I NIA   NIAI
I ___ _I                          ___ _ ___I ____-_-  I -
ITotal Provinces Visited (2)1 1952  492 1 2418   413 1 466  23.92Z
Notest
(1) Visited as part of the sector study and of the preparation
of the project.
(2) Including Federal Capital and 10 provinces.
(3) Indicative targets.
LPCD - Liters per capita per day
MCM - Million cubic meters



ANNEX 4
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWElAGE SECTOR PROJECT
SEWAGE T=E&T    AND DISPOSAL
Year 1986
I Produced Treated       Z     |
Province              KCaIyr   MIC4yr  Treated
IFederal Capital                     608         0       .0:1
IGran Buenos Aires            |      192        26      13.52|
1 [Subtotal OSN                 I      800        26       3.321
2 IBuenos Aires (1)             I      NIA       NIA       N/A 1
3 ICordoba                      I       58        42      72.4XI
4 ICorrientes                   I       15       1.5      10.021
5 IFozosa                       I      N/A       NIA       N/A I
6 1Mendoza                      I       66        65      98.5%1
7 INeuquen                      I       10         4      40.0Z1
8 IRio Negro                    I       13       1.5      11.5X|
9 ISan Juan                              a         0       0.0 I
10 |Santa Fe                     I       88         8       9.1t|
11 ISantiago del Estero          I        8         2      25.OZ0
ITotal Provinces Visited (2)        1066       150      14.IZ2
Notes:
(1) Visited as part of the sector study and of the preparation
of the project.
(2) Including Federal Capital and 10 provinces.
MCM/yr - Million cubic meters per year



ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Water Suvoly and Seweraoe Institutions
Province                    Onerating Entity                               Type of Entity
Federal Capital and         Obras Sanitarlas do la Nacion (OSN)            Federal Government Enterprise
Greater Buenos Aires
Buenos Aires Province        (1)  Obras Sanitarias de la Provincia do
Buenos Aires (OSBA)                     Provincial Covernment Enterprise
(ii) Municipalities
Catmarca                    Obras Sanitarias Catamarca                     Provincial Governuent Enterprise
Cordoba                     Empresa Provincial de Obras Sanitarias
(3POS)                                      Provincial Government Enterprlse
Corrientes                  Administracion de Obras Sanitarias
Corrientes                                   Provincial Government Enterprise
Chaco                       Serviclo de Agua y Mantenmiento Empresa        Provincial Government Enterprise
del Estado Provincia (SAMEEP)
Chubut                      Direccion de Obras Sanitarias y Gas            Provincial Covernment Ministry
Entre Rios                  Individual Cooperatives and Municipalities   Cooperatives and Municialities
Formosa                     Direccion de Suministro de Agua Potable y
Saneamiento                                  Provincial Government Ministry
Jujuy                       Direccion Provincial de AgUa Potable y
Saneamsento de Jujuy (APS)                   Provincial Government Ministry
La Pumps                    Administracion Provincial del Agua             Provinclal Government Enterprise
La Rioja                    Direccion Provincial de Servicios Sanitarios Provincial Government Ministry
Mendoza                     Obras Sanitarias Hendoza                       Provincial Government Enterprise
Misiones                    Administracion Provincial de Obras Sanita-
*rias (APOS)                                 Provincial Government Enterprise
Neuquen                     Administracion Provincial del Agua (APA)       Provincial Government Enterprise
Rio Negro                   Departamento Provincial de Ag4us               Provincial Government Agency
Salta                       Direccion de Obras Sanitarias                  Provincial Government Ministry
San Juan                    Obras Sanitarias Sociedad del Estado           Provincial Government Enterprise
San Luis                    Obras Sanitarias de San Luis                   Provincial Government Enterprise
Santa CruZ                  Servicios Publicos Sociedad del Estado         Provincial Government Enterprise
Santa Fe                    Direccion Provincial de Obras Sanitarias
(DIPOS)                                     Provincial Government Ministry
Santiago del Estero         Direccion Provincial de Obras Sanitarias
(DIPOS)                                     Provincial Government Hinistry
Tucuman                     Direccion Provincial de Obras Sanitarias
(DIPOS)                                     Provincial Government Ministry
T. del Fuego                Obras Sanitarias Territorial                   Provincial Government Enterprise



ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Water *nd Sewerage Utilties - Simpiftiod Operating Situation, 198J
(ill Iton of US1 - In averae 1M6 prices)
Ilcoe                                                     Expenditure                    Net nc_e
Other   To.t                     Col loction                 Other Opersting             Aceounting   Cash
Province          Blilln    Incoe   Incoe    Colloctlon    Porcentago        Personnel       Cents        Total       sBass       Basis
evsen  Alre         1J.9      -       13.9          7.0           BoX             9.9          6.4         16.8          -2.4       -9.a
Cordoba             21.0      -       21.0         20.1           021             -            -           19.0           1.0       .4.2
Corrientes           8.4      0.1      8.6          1.7           COX             4.0           1.2         6.2          -1.7       -3..
Clheos               6.1      1.2      6.8          4.1           65X             4.4          8.o          7.4          -1.1       -8.8
Foraoes              1.6      -        1.0          0.7           47X             0.1          6.5          1.J           *.3       -e.e
Jujuy                2.6      -        2.6          1.2           69x             1.6          1.0          2.3          -O.3       -1.6
Mo sn !/             0.0      6.      12.8          -             -               7.3          11.0        10.3           4.6        -
tIllslose            1.7      0.4      2.1          1.4          6sx              2.2          1.4          8.0          -1.6       -2.2
Neque                2.0      -        2.6          -             -               0.6           1.5         2.6.!         -          _
Sea Juas 2/          8.8      6.6      4.1          2.5           821             1.4           1.2         2.0           1.6        0.5
Sta Fe              81.7      8.1    84.0          26.1           72x            12.9          14.2        27.1 M         7.7        1.5
Twman  /             0.       0.2      7.0          6.6           791            11.4          1.7         18.1          4.1        -7.0
Total            1M.       11.0   112.4          69.3           621             -            -          120.1          -7.7      -26.3
a/ 190# dat
io/ Includes depreciation aod unrcolvebloo a 0.a 90Illion of USS
cJ Includes deprleaon a    U09.45 mlllonso of USJ
d/ Inclde dereciation * U588.6 milllons on non-realue fixed ases
I!



U~ 7
;~~~ 8                                     2   
9-   3                    3          
a   S                    S          
_   S-                    S                     S
S            a         a S        a 
g         -: 2           a          s          t   a 
~j .I."tg                             
t |      t   t          r    :     3          ft 
|.  g         -   -t                    * 
- *       a    -            
I.      .            a   f  
-i                    i -                  I      .
ill                                 SS 



ARCENTIMA
WAT'R SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
PROW=T COSM  ESTIMATE
(in Us$ million)
CoNposest                   I Total  Co*t  Loal Foreign Foreiog  t1o9t      10  1994   96 IU    1907
1. fwf           uw or 8 im OPATIS
a) INsTmUIAL oEYKa.II
2. Prowlsios of udi secl Se
3. Zetwe.s dt eralaatl.e.l/adlatolv. syd_em
4.  b          of putoalg            *_
5. Sael_ms ad .sloaaa  _aeee capebllltle
.om T_ll 1w trwcl c_
SubtOtal ( )   0t.3     5   2.6   0.5        79  0.2  o.t  .o   2.0  2.8   2I   1.4
b) UIC IIATI  or OR=  SVICU
1. Survof csinra and  of_le
2. Seag   sd  pl1m"tdoe of tra 
J. Deal a. lehplmeetat of t.,lff p.1el 
4. Settd l gup of redlliblllluIIcoo lectloa system
t. lepovaes o cuter-saIceo
improvement of -.tmw ""Y"            Subtotl (b)  29.6    lx  9.0  2.-0          709  9.o *.9  5.0  0.3  7.5  7.2  4.5
a)  EIUATUL IwRYEISI
1. bratcl"s, slcrmelat Sd pitemet
2. Ser109odsep    of _atr & _mag  eaerlo
W. IeprWe.aet       o of 61 U st  e   r
Subtotal (c)  2M.S     lax  9.9  26.0        79  0.8   .9  3.0  0.8  7.5  7.2  4.5
d) 13*1 ZIF PEIIS_L
I. Twimeag with usda watt,op    compeale
3. Ceuuoea* semimaro sad post-gradate, ostudie
4. Pro  rlooualttoe of triing material.
Subtotal (d)   6.0      31  1.7   3.9        793 9.1  0.2  *.6  1.2  1.4  1.8  o.0
Subtotal (1)  74.6     493 22.4  62.2       7?1  2.9  5.0 1t.1 21.2  26.2  24.2 11.1
it. I     FaSILATISI O SITER NO 665    SYSTM
1. Iteai   d rand aas"aof t        so  s*_    le
I: peudfot.i . o9e truetest plant
Coostrd. a../pgradbng of othe ftcillltes
Suotl  (II)   9.6        61  23.6  2n.o      65 1.1,  1.7  6.0  11.0  14.9  13.4  6.4
ItI. E2tiNIS  OF SMEI m1e s      IS
1. Expsoelon of sotor dotlributioc _tware
2. Elposleo of s ewe ollctles network.
3. Selective  p"aolo. Of *w    spot.e.  P"eott
4. Selesctew expess" of  uMP srtate cSPItp
Subtotal (Itt)  4.0      251 26.9  10.7       491  .9   1.4  4.?  9.6  11.t I1.2  7.6
IV. PwUIATIU IF SMI1ES me Knee
1. aterw _uppi y ad asa AtW  plan
2. _osrc atud* a            odt Ipoming opetions
S. Eulroatal Impct atdlee
SSubtotl (IV)   7.6      41  2.2   5.2        765 ..1  9.2  9.?  1.0  1.9   1.0  1.1
Y.  IIIOII oP CIfAPS IFIRATUN
SuvtoteFl (v)   1.9     13  0.6   1.3        791 0.0  9.1  0.2  9.4  0.6  e.4  0.1
TOTAL OM5 COST (Octbor 1996 pwic"e)             160.6    1695 61.1  166.4       671 3.7  6.6  16.7 39.2  46.0  44.9 20.9        la
PHWSICAL CoIINTnIIICIES                          15.7      lo x .1  19.5        67X 0.4  0.0  1.9  1.9  4.?  4.5  2.@
PRICE ClTIIIOEKCIES                              44.8     24# 19.6  26.1        673 0.2  0.6  2.a  7.9 11.6 12.0  9.1
TOTaL PROJECT COST 260.    134  10.611  141.3    67X 6.9  7.6  26.6 62.6 02.6  ".9  8S.6
lurly Percentage (%) I 10o                               2.0S  3.06  19.61 21.63 26.2S 24.06 16.0S



ARGEOIITU
WATE  SUPLY AND Sm ERAW-SECTORL PROECT
CONSWO FED3L  0D AU;A  2ILLZ.   SAXXAMUO
,(COLAW
ORGMUAZONCZART
BOARD OF DIRCTORS
?RES DENT
PSECR1AT RT.AT
ACCOUNITING AND  
.                        ~~~~~~~ADMaNISSTRAI   SUPPORT
CR1tDIT ALYSIS         PLANN   N
PRIOJECT TECXINICJiL                              JINAIICI
AiSSESSI          REGISONAL PRMON



Annsx 10
Pap 1 of 3
ARGENTIN
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Financial Projections for the Project
(Current US$ Million)
SOURCES ANDS USES                 . SUICES AN USS OF RS f (FUS FLOW)
SURCES                           Tr O  Yr1 IYr 2 Yr S 1r 4   rS 6 Yr 6  Y 7 YO      8 srr 9 Yr 10
Ft nacl Sours    of funs               _
I  IDS                               2.0  2.5  10.5 21.0  25.0 21.0  10.0  0.0   0.0
2  mO                                2.0  2.5 10.5 21.0  25.0 28.0  1o.0  0.0   0.0  0.0
Subtotal                         4.0  6.0 21.0 42.0  50.0 46.0 52.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
*  Loan Recuperation (Capital)                         8.6   7.7  12.2  16.S 18.2  18.8 18.4
4  Capital Not Recup. + R eup. from Prior Pertod      (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) (0.0) (0.0)
tinter ot Recupsration              0.2  0.7  2.1  c.8  11.0  15.9  19.3  19.5  17.4  1S.3
*  Interest Not Rec., RPc Prior Prda (0.0) (0.0) (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) 0.0  0.2  0.2
7 Com_1  on (.7M1 on Funds Cormd)   0.02 0.10 0.28 0.87 0.50 0.41 0.12 0.00 0.00 0.00
8 Interest on Cash (61)             (0.08)(0.11)(0.20)(0.09) 0.80 0.61  1.26  1.79  2.41  3. 1
TOTAL SOURCES                       4.2  5.6 28.1 51.5 09.0  74.7 06.6  59.4 38.3  36.9
Financial Ut. of Funds
* Funds On- ln*t                      8.4  4.4 20.4 41.4 40.4 4C.4  81.4  0.0  0.0  0.0
Debt-Service - IDRD
10 Capital                                                         10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0
11 Interet                            0.1  0.8  0.6  2.0  8.0  5.6  6.7  6.6   5.8  5.0
12 Cont.tat nOf                      0.28 0.24 0.28 0.10 0.13  0.07 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00
sub-total                        0.8  0.5  1.0  2.2   8.9  15.7  16.0  16.6  15.8  15.0
Debt-Servlce - DDO
18 Capital                            0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  8.4  6.9  6.9  0.9  6.9
14 Intar t                            0.1   0.2  0.0  1.?   8.2  4.0   5.5  5.6  5.2  4.7
15 Comit_nt Fee + FPV                0.06 0.65 0.61 0.53 0.41  0.29 0.18 0.00 0.00 0.00
Sub-total                        0.7   0.9  1.2  2.2  8.0  6.8  12.0  12.5  12.1  11.8
TOTAL FDNANCAUL USS OF FJNDS            4.4  5.3  22.6  46.6  56.9 69.4  60.0  29.1  27.9 26.8
10 Net Financalf Flow                 (0.8) (0.1) 0.5  5.7  12.2  5.8  7.9 10.4  10.5  10.3
ADUINISTRATIVE COSTS
17 Admin. Coot  of COFAPYS           0.6 0.6  0.   0.79 0.70 0.70 o.7  0.79 0.79 0.79
18 Tech. Assistance Prograi          0.60 0.00 0.60 0.00 0.00  0.0  0.6
Not Flows                          (1.0) (1.4) (0.6) 4.8  10.0  8.0  0.5  0.0   9.7   9.5
Beginning Cash Balance       0.0  0.0  (1.6) (2.9) (8.?)  0.6  11.4  15.5  21.6  81.8 41.0
Ending Cash Balance          0.0  (1.6) (1.9) (3.?) 0.6  11.4  15.8  21.3  81.8  41.0 50.5



Annex-lo
Page 2 of 3
AMENTIN&
WATE  SUPLYMD SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Financial Projections for COFAPYS
(Current US$ Million)
II. INCOME STATEMENT
YrO  r 1Y      Irr 2 Yr  Yr 4 Yr 6 Ye C  e T7 Yre S   r 9 Yr 10
REVEIIES                         _ - -_   -                  -_         - - _- -r  _
Financial Revenues
61 Interest on Loans                0.2  0.7  24   5.6  11.0 15.0 19.8 19.5 17.4 1C.8
52 Int Lost, Recup. Patties        (0 0) (0.0) (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) 0.0  0.2  0.2
53 Comiesions                       0.0  0.1  0.2  0.4  0 5  0.4  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0
54 Interost on Cash Held           (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) 0.8  0.6  1.8  1.6  2.4  8.1
TOTAL                              0.2  0.6  2.1  5.9 11.5 1.e  20.6 21.8 20.0 18.6
Financial Costa
54 Interest to S8RD                 0.1  0.8  0.6  2.0  8.8  5.6  6.7  O.6  5.8  6.0
55 Committent Fe to DlR             0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
S6 Interest to S08                  0.1  0,2  0.6  1.7  8.2  4.6  5.5  5.6 6.2  4.7
57 Coemitent Foee    to lOB         0.7  0.6  0.6  0.5  0.4  0.8  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.0
TOTAL                              1.0  1.4  2.2  4.4  7.5 10.6 12.5 12.2 11.0  9.7
Net Financial Income               (0.9) (0.7) (0.1) 1.6  4.1  6.2  0.1  9.1  9.0  6.8
NCV a ex                     48.5
iWV 0 12X                    82.5
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
60 Administrative Costa            0.66 0.66    0.66 0.70 0.7  0."  0.70 0.79 0.79 0.70
61 Technical Assistance            0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.00 0.00 0.00
TOTAL                              1.8  1.8  1.8  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  0.6  0.5  0.6
Net Income                         (2.2) (2.0) (1.4) 0.2  2.7  4.3  6.7  8.8  0.2  8.0
NWV                          8 as  6.0
NPV O 12X                    24.2
INCOME ATIUOS
RATIOS
Financals Rv.wuee/Avg Aseste       10.0 18.0 14.8  18.0 12.4 12.1 12.8  12.2 12.1 11.8
Financial Costs/Avg Assets        118.4 40.2 15.2  9.5  0.0  7.7  7.4  7.0  6.6  6.2
Net Financial Income/Avg Asaet    (#665)(21.8) (0.0) 8.4  4.4  4.5  4.8  5.2  5.5  5.6
Adminlitrwtive Costa/Avg Asseta    1n6.a 87.5  6.6  8.1  1.5  1.0  0.6  0.5  0.5  0.6
Net Incoe/Avg Aeat OsJo_(U.S) (9.5) 0.4  2.0  8.5  4.0  4.6  5.0  5.1
Interest RetUrn o Loans            11.8 11.5 11.5 11.  12.8 12.6 12.9 18.2 18.6 13.9
Interest Cost of Foreign Fund       7.1  7.1  7.1  7.1  7.1  7.4  7.6  7.6  7.6  7.6
Spread                              4.2  4.8  4.4  4.$  5.2  5.2  5.8  5.7  8.0  6.2
Assets                        0.0  1.6  4.0 24.5 46.6 119.8 151.? 170.5 169.9 161.8 162.4
Average Assts                       0.9  8.4 14.7 45.6 9 .0 18.0 167.6 174.2 166.6 166.0
S of Total                          0.01 0.25 0.11 2.2S 4.45  .5X 7.6X  3.25 ?.6X 7.4X
Total Lease to Provinces      0.0  8.4  7.0 23.2 66.0 107.9 141.4 156.7 138.6 120.2 101.9
Average Loans                       1.7  5.6 16.0 47.1  67.0 124.6 149.0 147.6 129.4 111.1
Foreian Loans .L1ab1i1tlas)   0.0  4.0  9.0 80.0 72.0 122.0 154. 1609.7 152.6 186.9 119.0
Average Foreign Loans               2.0  6.5 19.5 51.0 07.0 18.118 12.1 161.2 144.8 127.4



WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Financial Projections for COFAPYS
(Current US$ million)
III. BALANCE SHEET
BMLANCE 833?                    Tro  Yr I Yr 2 Yr 3 Yr 4 YrS  Yr 6 Tr 7 Yr 8  Yr 9 Yr 10
____-             - -   - -   -  -    -    ---- _ _  ---   ----   ----
Assets
81 Cash and Central Bank Deposi 0.0  (1.6) (2.9) (3.7)  0.6  11.4  15.3  21.8  31.3  41.0  50.5
82 Loans to Provinces                  3.4   7.8  28.2  66.0 107.9 141.4 156.7 138.6 120.2 101.9
TOTAL                           0.0   1.8  4.9  24.5  66.6 119.3 156.7 178.5 169.9 161.3 152.4
Liabilities
85 Obligations to IDB                  2.0   4.5  15.0  36.0  61.0  80.6  89.?  82.8  75.9  69.0
8J DB - Capitalised Interest
87 Obligations to IBID                 2.0  4.5  15.0  36.0  61.0  74.0  80.0  70.0  60.0  50.0
88 IBWID - Capitalized Interest
TOVAL                           0.0   4.0   9.0  30.0  72.0 122.0 154.6 169.7 152.8 135.9 1190.
Equity
89 Rstained Earnings             3.0   0.8  (1.1) (2.5) (2.4)  0.3   5.1  11.8  20.1  28.4  36.4
90 Residual                     (3.0) (3.0)(3.00)(3.00)(3.00)(3.00)(3.00)(3.00)(3.00)(3.00)(3.00)
TOTAL                           0.0  (2.2) (4.1) (5.5) (5.4) (2.7)  2.1   8.8  17.1  25.4  33.4
TOTAL                                 1.6      4.9  24.5   66.6 119.3 156.7 178.5 169.9 161.3 152.4
iit



Aerx  It
Pag 1 i 2
WATER SUPPLY AND) SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
COFPYS - Action Plan and Financial Targets
1.    COFAPYS will prepare monthly variance reports on a cash flow basis, using
the same categories (or more) used in the financial projections. These variance
reports should be submitted to the Bank each semester. Annual revisions to
projections of cash flow, income statement and balance sheet data will be
required to be submitted within three months following each calendar year. Such
projections should be based on calendar year actuals and figures should tie to
audited data. Subsequent monthly and annual variance reports should be based
on revised projections using the same format. Based on these variance reports,
COFAPYS will demonstrate that:
(a)   targets for volume of funds onlent as indicated in the financial
projections have been met. These targets will be:
(US$ Million)
XX_1  Yr-2  XY         XLA XYr 4L-6   YrA         7
Funds Onlent      4.0    5.0    21.0    42.0    50.0   46.0    32.0
(b)   positive net income and cash flow will be obtained beginning in year
5;
(c)   all cash deficits in years 1 to 4 will be financed from principal
and interest income generated by COFAPYS' current loan portfolio,
deferring their payment until COPAPYS has reached self-financing
status;
(d)   net income as a percent of average assets will be required to be no
less than 20% below those percentages indicated in the projections
agreed between COFAPYS and the Bank; and
(e) administrative expenses will be required to be no inre than:
(USM Million)
XIL     XY     MLA    XLA4  XILl  a" 6         Ir 
Administrative Costs
of COFAPYS       0.66   0.66   0.66    0.79    0.79  0*79    0.79
Technical Assistance
Program          0.60   0.60   0.60    0.60    0.60  0*60    0.60



Aex    1
Pep 2 of 2
2.    COFAPYS will demonstrate that it:
(a) has sufficient capability to manage its short-term cash position;
(b)   generates a market rate on funds held; and
(c)   invests only in liquid instruments such as Central Ba* securities.
3.    COFAPYS will carry out the project, inter alia, in accordance with the
terms and conditions agreed with the Borrower, as reflected in the Acta Acuerdo
No. __, daced          , signed between COFAPYS and the Borrower's Ministry of
Economy (Draft of October 23, 1990).



ANKX 12
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTTNA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
COFAPYS - Terms of Reference for Consultant in Financial Management
Under the loan, the consultant will be engaged for a period of
approximately three years. During this time, the consultant will be expected
to perform the following tasks:
I.    Finl&AiAl HMgement
(a)   Asset Oualitv.  Consultant should:
(i)   Work jointly with the computer and accounting system consultant
under the fifth IDB project to develop an automated, integrated
accounting system that adequately reflects the following
components:
I.    monthly balance sheet and income statement data;
ii.   automatic transformation of stocks and flows into dollar
equivalents;
iii.  separate accounts for assets of different quality and,
loan loss provisions; and
iv.   mechanisms for separating foreign exchange gains and
losses.
(ii) Train staff and develop software to assess portfolio quality
including the capacity of the subborrowers to pay, the quality
of the loan guarantees, and the debt-service performance.
(iii) Establish accounting rules for provisioning for doubtful loans
and procedures for applying these rules.              %
(iv) Work with staff to implement agreed-to system for collecting
on guarantees provided by provinces through rescindment of
Federal Revenue-Sharing funds.
(v)   Establish a system of guarantees for future loans to municipal
water entities.
(vi) Establish mechanisms for onlending (perbaps through commercial
banks) to private sector firms without provincial or municipal
guarantees.



"aNE  12
Pag  2 of 3
(vii) Develop a systematic form of disclosure of asset quality
indices and mechanisms for supervision or outside auditing of
such indices and provisions.
(b)   Li uidity, Consultant should develop mechanisms to:
(i)  Assess its liquidity needs.  Such a mechanism would on an
ongoing basis: (i) assess the mismatch between the amortization
schedule and term structure of assets and liabilities (which
are not exactly matched) and determine the cash flow deficits
or surpluses which would result; (ii) assess the liquidity
implications of multiple scenarios of non-payment of loans;
and (iii) assess the liquidity implications of the payment
schedule of fixed and overhead costs.
(ii)  Ensure sources of liquidity support beyond transfers from the
Treasury (if indicated by the Government at Negotiations).
(iii) Actively manage  its cash position  though:  (i) actively
investing short-term funds in similar-term instruments, (ii)
investing funds not needed in the short-term in longer-term
instruments, and (iii) minimizing Treasury liquidity support
by improving its assessment of its liquidity needs.
(c)   Cross-Currency Exchange Risk.  If the Government decides that such
risk should be covered by the final borrower, the Consultant should
work with those at COFAPYS to develop a mechanism so that
fluctuations in the quota required by the World Bank is reflected
in the quota to the final borrower.
(d)   Interest Rate Risk.  Mechanisms should be developed to establish
mechanisms to assess the interest rate risk presented by the
difference between its outstanding fixed rate loans and variable rate
obligations.
II.   Institutional CaRability
(a)   Staffing.  Consultant should also work with management to train new
and existing staff on the financial management practices outlined
above.
(b)  Organizational Structure.   Consultant should work closely with
COFAPYS' senior staff to take reorganization measures necessary to
increase efficiency and accountability.
(c)  Autgmation.  The consultant should work closely with the computer
consultant to acquire computer hardware and software to achieve the
financial management requirements indicated above. Consultant shoudl
assist in the training of individuals to use the equipment acquired
and previously available.



AM 1
Pegs 3 of 3
(4)   Iudg.ta   PlaMint and 3xecutiot.  Consultant should work with
administrative purposes.   Such a budget should differentiate
Government transfers for: (L) payment of funds not received from no-
performing loso, (ii) paymnt of operating costs not supported by
the margins of loans prior to the Bank loan, (iLL) subsidies for
prior loans made at rates of interest below COFAPYS' cost of funds
for the particular projects, and (iv) support of liquidLty needs on
the Bank loan not covered by existing sargins.



AMIEX 13
pop 1 of 2
ARMINTlN
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Conditions for COFAPYs Subloan Ageements
1.   Subproject agreements between COFAPYS and project executing agencies should
contain intes Als:
(a)  project description, including institutional strengthening component;
(b) environmental assessment report and proposed remedial actions to
minimize adverse effects;
(c)   components and targets under the subproject component to improve
existing operations (metering, tariff systems, billing and '
collection, and improved system' s operation and maintenance);
(d)   financial viability clause (sufficient operating revenues to cover
operation and maintenance costs, debt service and contribution to
investment);
(e) admiLnistrative, operational and financial monitoring indicator;
(f)  maintain satisfactory project records;
(g)   adequate insurance coverage;
(h)   procurement arrangements with limit on number of contracts and the
uses of standard procurement documents;
(i)   disbursement arrangements;
(j)  audit requirements;
(k) semi-annual reporting under format specified by COFAPYS;
(1)  project completion report;
(i)  supervision of construction;
(n)   satisfactory smagement clause;
(o)  use of qualified consultants;
(p)   authorization of access to works, offices and records by COFAPYS and
Bank personnel;



ftp 2 of 2
(q) right by COFAPYS to suspend disbursements end to cancel tho loan in
case of non-compliance by subborrower, particularly vith the
operational and financial Improvement targets, as vell as for &rrears
in paymuents to COFAPYS;
(r)   any other subproject-specif.c clauses;
(s)   all their terms and conditions for the disbursement and for the
reimbursement of the subloan proceeds;
(t)   currency of the subloans; and
(u)   guarantees.



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 13
AM ENTINA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Subnroiect Evaluation Guidelines
1.          Backgroud
1.1         These guidelines have been prepared to help design subprojects
consistent with the policies and priorities established by the Government to
strengthen the sector. Such projects should help develop strong regional and
municipal companies that can provide adequate water supply and sewerage services
at minimum cost.
1.2         A subproject is the sum of one or more components from one of three
main categories: (a) institutional strengthening programs; (b) rehabilitation
of existing infrastructure, and (c) construction of new facilities.   These
categories are listed in descending order or priority. The composition of a
subproject, however, should be tailored to the specific needs of a given
municipality or province.
1.3         The analysis of a given subproject aims at establishing the priority
of the proposed components, its consistency with sector policies, and its
contribution to improve the delivery of services in a municipality. This analysis
also aims to ascertain that the subproject or its components do not adversely
affects the environment and that their benefits are equal to or exceed their
costs.
1.4         Several steps should be followed to perform this analysis in a
systematic and effective way.  it is first necessary to assess, at least in
general terms, the organization in charge of executing the subproject and
operating the services, how effective its commercial system is, the efficiency
of its operations, and how well its staff is qualified to perform the assigned
functions to provide good service. Secondly, it is necessary to evaluate, in
general terms, the whole municipal water supply and sewerage system and the
existing and future demand for these services. Feasible alternatives to remove
institutional and physical constraints can then be explored, compared and
selected and subproject components developed. The end result is an investment
and action plan designed to improve the performance of the company and its
capacity to meet future demand at minimum cost.  Finally, an environmental
assessment and a benefit-cost analysis is done to ensure that the proposed works
meet acceptable environmental protection standards and minimum net benefit
requirements.
2.          Institutional Strengthening Programs
2.1         All programs directed at improving the efficiency of a company in
delivering water and sewerage services should be justified on the basis of a
general assessment of its organization and main organizational units, of the



Page 2 of 13
effectiveness of its commercial and accounting system and of its operations, and
of the training needs of its staff. On these bases, programs to strengthen the
company can be designed to meet specific needs. A list of the main programs in
this area, namely commercialization, institutional development and training
plans, ircluding their main activities and expected outcomes, Is presented in
paragraphs 9 through 11.
3.          Environmental Assessment
3.1         All subprojects will be screened to determine the degree, if any,
to which they can have potential environmental impacts and their gravity and the
proposed actions to prevent or mitigate any adverse effects and ensure that the
subproject is environmentally sound and sustainable. Most subprojects are likely
to require a limited environmental analysis. Each assessment will include an
evaluation of
a.    its policy, legal and administrative framework;
b.    detailed description of the project and of relevant environmental
conditions;
c.    analysis of positive and negative impacts likely to result from the
project's components;
d.    analysis of alternatives to mitigate any adverse effects and costs
and benefits of proposed remedial actions;
e.    proposed plan to reduce potentially significant adverse environmental
impacts to acceptable levels, its costs (capital and recurrent) and
institutional and training requirements, if any; and
f.    monitoring plan regarding enviromental impacts and  performance.
4.          Demand and Supply Analysis
4.1         The evaluation of a municipal water supply or sewerage system should
start with an analysis of existing coverage levels and type of service provided
as well as per capita and aggregate consumption and production volumes. In the
demand analysis the following aspects should be covered in detail:
a.    Existing coverage levels and type of service provided  (total
population, population served, number of house connections,
standpipes, septic tanks, and other).
b.    Water consumption (based on house connections), preferably broken
down by main users (domestic, commercial, industrial, official, and
other).
Metered consumption.
Estimated unmetered consumption.



Page 3 of 13
c.    Water production.
Metered production.
Estimated unmetered production.
d.    Estimates of unaccounted-for vater (UFW).  UFU is defined as the
difference between production and metered consumption.   (When
consumption is not metered this factor cannot be ascertained with
an acceptable degree of accuracy).
4.2         The analysis of historical production/UFW/demand should cover the
previous two to five years. Production/UN/demand projections should be based
on the projected growth of house connections or service accounts and take into
consideration the effects of metering consumption, plans to reduce UFW and to
improve commercialization practices, and possible price elasticity effects.
Projections should be made on a yearly basis for the first 5 years and then at
5-year intervals for a maximum of 20 years.  Sanitary sewerage flow demand
estimates should also be made on the basis of the number of connections to the
sewer system and reasonable assumptions on consumptive use and infiltration
flows.
5.          Rehabilitation _ ograms
5.1         The evaluation of a municipal water supply and sewerage system begins
with an engineering assessment of the main existing components of the system
(main physical dimensions, materials, condition, reliability, and capacity).
M(ajor activities and expected outputs are described in paragraph 12.  Major
components include:11
a.    Water SgDolv:
Intake facilities.
Transmission pipelines.
Treatment plants.
Storage tanks.
Distribution network.
Pumping stations.
b.    Sewerage System:
Collection pipe system.
Collectors and interceptors.
Pumping stations.
Outfalls.
Treatment plants.
5.2         This engineering evaluation provides the basis to assess the
t      This  list  is indicative    ad should  be iodfffed  in wcorde   vfith
the specific  reqfrements   of a given  project.



ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 13
feasibility of rehabilitating the system's components to bring them up to their
optimal capacity at a cost usually lower than the one required to construct a
new facility.
6.         Ontimal ExDansion of System's ComDonents
6.1        In determining the optimum investment expansion plan (i.e., the
least-cost solution), the following aspects should be taken into account:
a.   Timing of investments.  All investment works should be built or
expanded as late as possible, as determined by the demand projection
and the existing capacity of the component under analysis.
b.    Facilities should be sized to minimize idle capacity. Several models
are available to determine the optimum size and sequencing of
investments.
6.2        One model often used to determine the optimum size of water and
sewerage works is based on the observation that these works present economies
of scale and assumes a linear demand growth (a conservative assumption). Based
on a discount rate of 12% and average economy of scale factors, the following
design periods are recommended:21
Intake woiks ......................      20 years
Deep wells .10 years
Transmission pipelines ............      15 years
Distribution system .15 years
Water treatment plants .10 years
Storage tanks .......... .........       10 years
Pumping stations; civil works            20 years
Equipment .10 years
Sewerage pipe systems .20 years
Sewage treatment plants .10 years
6.3        Design periods greater than those indicated or for components not
shown should be justified by a detailed analysis. Financial constraints may
justify the use of shorter design periods.
7.         Analysis and Selection of Alternatives
7.1        To determine the optimal expansion program of a water supply or
sewerage system, an analysis of all technically feasible alternatives should be
made and the most promising ones, particularly rehabilitation works, costed out
(capital and operational costs) and compared on the basis of discounted total
costs on a present value or equivalent annual basis. The one with the lowest
cost should be selected.   The discount rate to use is 12%.  A sensitivity
U     Cost functions  can be expressed  as C(S) a k.Aa where C(S) represents
the invetment   cost,  k a constant,   a capacity  and a econory  of scat. factor.



ANNEX 14
Page 5 o. 13
analysis is recommended when alternatives present similar value or annual costs.
This sensitivity analysis can be helpful in the selection of the best
alternative.
7.2         It should be remembered that only economic costs enter into the
calculations. Costs are expressed in constant terms, that is inflation is not
taken into account. Financial and transfer costs such as interest, depreciation,
and taxes should not enter into the calculations. Moreover, economic costs to
be included are the incremental investment, replacement, and operational costs
associated with the component. These costs are determined on the basis of an
analysis of the situation "with" and "without" the project, which is not
necessarily the same as "before" and 'after" the project.
8.          Project Justification
8.1         All infrastructure investments should be economically justified on
the basis of an internal rate of return (IRR). The minimum acceptable IRR is
12%. For the calculation of the IRR, benefits and costs are measured in constant
terms and are incremental due to the nature of the project (para. 6.1). IRR
calculations should be done on the basis of a time horizon of 20 to 30 years.
Shadow pricing adjustments are generally required.
8.2         Investments related t, institutional strengthening programs such as
improvements of commercial systems, cadastral, and system surveys, and training
programs, do not need to be justified on the basis of an IRR. An analysis of
the population's ability to pay and of the benefits of the project to low-income
groups (per capita income of A 377,881 or less, at May 1990 prices) is also
required.
8.3         As a proxy, benefits are to be measured, when applicable, by tariffs
and other direct contributions from the user in effect in the first year the
subloan becomes effective. Savings obtained by the project, such as postponement
of investments and reduction in operating costs, can be considered as benefits.
*       8.4          Under certain circumstances  it is advisable to determine the
sensitivity of the IRR to a given benefit or cost parameter. The benefit or cost
parameter(s) to which the IRR is most sensitive should be followed closely during
project construction.   An adverse change in any of these parameters should
trigger a review of the project and, if necessary, the subproject or component
should be modified to ensure that maximum net benefits continue to accrue.
8.5         The impact of the project on the financial condition of the company
will also be analyzed using the financial internal rate of return in which market
prices of both the services and costs will be used. The internal rate of return
would have to be at least equal to the cost of borrowing to show adequate cost
recovery. In addition, the financial analysis of the company must also be done
to ascertain its viability and capacity to do cost recovery.



AUHL14
Page 6 of 13
8.6         For all main investment components included in a subloan it is
necessary to develop unit costs and tangible monitoring indicators that can be
easily followed during project execution. A list of monitoring unit costs and
indicators is presented at the end of this annex. These indicators should be
routinely used during project execution as a control device to ensure that all
investments will produce the intended results and remain cost effectirq. Unit
cost indicators are also intended to create a cost data bank to be used to
improve cost estimates of future subprojects and to help identify cost-effective
and replicable programs.
9.          Institutional Strengthening Plansa'
9.1         Commercial System
Subprogram A: User's Cadastre
Qbjective:   Update or create the cadastre of users and develop
procedures to keep it up to date.
9.1.1       Activities:
1.    Locate and produce street maps of adequate scale to plan
and monitor the cadastral survey.
2.   Design of survey forms to collect information on:
a.    Type and coverage of service (water, sewerage) and whether
public or private.
b.    Number of houses and buildings served by house connections
(h.c.) or other means. Number of service accounts (s.a.)'
c.    Identification.
d.    Number of persons living in a s.a. dwelling.
e.    Number of s.a. per h.c. and classification of the s.4.
f.    Physical characteristics of the h.c. such as pipe material,
diameter, type of meter, and meter box and condition.
]/   Main subprograms, activities, and outputs listed should be considered
as indicative.  Each program should be tailored to the specific needs of a
company. Adequate coordination and complementarity with other subprograms is
essential.
it    A distinction is made between a service account and a house
connection. A house connection can serve one or more service accounts.



AMEX 14
Page 7 of 13
3.          To check the existing cadastral information against the
information provided by the census, to detect unregistered or illegal
connections,  and to make the necessary corrections.   The information on
unregistered accounts should be sent to the appropriate department to collect
any past dues, if applicable.
4.    To review existing procedures, to open and close service accounts,
to ensure that the cadastral system is kept up to date, and to recommend changes
to avoid any loss of information.
S.    To provide the census data, drawings, and all new information to
the commercial system and to operations. This will provide the basis to keep
the billing and collection systems current and to improve the operation of the
distribution system.
9.1.2       Expected Outnut:
1.    Updated drawings of the h.c. system.
2.    Computerized information on all h.c. and s.a.
3.    List of all unregistered accounts.
4.   Assessment of the coverage level and types of service.
5.    Recommendations to maintain cadastre up to date.
9.2         Subprogam B:  Billing and Collection
Objective:  Computerized system that allows continuous update  and
control and produces timely information on users, consumption, billing, and
accounts receivable.
9.2.1       Activities:
1.    Review of the existing system to detect deficiencies both in
software and hardware systems to read consumption meters, and bill
and collect payment from users in a timely fashion.
2.    Assessment of existing computer and meter-reading facilities.
3.    Review of monitoring and control procedures including handling
consumer complaints.
4.   Update or design of system as necessary.
5.    Review of legislation that affects collection of overdue accounts
from users.
9.2.2       M=cted Output:



pNNE 14
Page 8 of 13
1.    Recommendations to avoid repetition of current problems.
2.    Recommendations to reduce time and cost of reading meters, billing,
and collection.
3.    Implementationpof new system.   The new system should be run in
parallel with the existing system for about six months to allow
detection of problems and prevent loss of informatioi).  The new
system should generate statistical information on consumption,
revenues, and accounts receivable.  It should interface with the
operation, planning, accounting, and financial departments.
4.    If new computer equipment or other equipment is required, its main
characteristics should be defined.
5.    Detailed costs of proposed new equipment.
6.    Design of control systems.
9.3.        Subprogram C:  Metering of Consumption
Obiective: To meter about 30% of consumers that account for at
least 50% of total consumption. Redesign of tariff structure.
9.3.1       Activities:
1.    Identification of large consumers by category and areas to be
measured.
2.   Assessment of the number and type of meters and cost effectiveness
of proposed meter reading equipment.
3.    Analysis of norms and procedures that affect the installation and
ownership of the meter (entity or user).
4.    Design of public education campaigns to educate consumers and
minimize resistance to the use of meters.
5.   Review and update of the existing tariff structure to make it more
effective and equitable when meters are introduced.
9.3.2       output:
1.    Bidding documents for the purchase of meters and related equipment
and for pipes and accessories to install them.
2.    Cost estimates for the propcsed metering plan and public education
campaign.



ANNE 14_
Page 9 of 13
3.    Detailed calculations of the financial effects of the proposed
tariff structure.
4.    Design of metering rounds, frequency of reading, control syatems,
and monitoring indicators.
5.    Cost estimates of meter reading.
10.         Institutional DeveloDment
10.1        Subprogram A:  Accounting Svstems
10.1.1      Obi3ctive:  Computerized system that meets legal and commercial
requirements.
10.1.2      Activities:
1.    Assessment of legal, commercial and cost accounting requirements.
2.    Design of accounting system to meet these requirements, including
accounting forms, information flows and manuals.
3.    Design of inventory and fixed assets systems.
10.1.3      Outgut:
1.    Integrated accounting system that interfaces efficiently with the
commercial, inventory, personnel manageme.t and budget systems.
2.    Implementation of accounting system and production of manuals.
3.    Assessment and costing of computer software needs.
10.2        Subprogram B: Organizational Structure
10.2.1      Obiective:  To improve the organization of the company to make it
more responsive to cost-mers' needs.
10.2.2      Activities:
1.   Assessment  of  decentralization   (provincial  companies)  and
organizational needs.
2.    Definition of functions and responsibilities.
3.    Preparation of job descriptions.
4.   Assessment of staff and training needs.
5.   Assessment of equipment needs.



ANNEX-14
Page 10 of 13
10.2.3
1.    Proposed changes to the organization.
2.   Job descriptions.
3.    Cost estimates of training and equipment needs.
4.    Develop monitoring indicators to measure efficiency of operations
and major departments.
10.3        Subprogram C:  Planning System
10.3.1      Objective:  Strengthening financial and physical planning capacity.
10.3.2      &QrivLties:
1.   Assess basic data bank needs for adequate planning and identify
departments responsible for producing such data.
2.   Ascertain reporting and information requirements to and from the
planning department.
3.   Assess minimum staff and equipment needs for the department.
10.3.3      gutt:
1.   Terms of reference for the planning department.
2.    Training needs in this area.
3.    Reporting formats to and from the planning department.
11.         Tann   X 
11.1        Obiective:  Identification of training needs and design of training
program on a continuous basis to help raise the efficiency of the company.
11.2        Activities:
1.   Assessment  of  training  needs  in  cooperation  with  staff
representatives.
2.    Identification of entities that can provide training.
3.   Assessment of training costs.
4.    Coordination with institutional development program  to ascertain
ainimum training needs for designated positions.



ANNEX 14
Page 11 of 13
11.3        Outut:
1.    Identification of training prioritiex and training plans for the
following three years.
2.    Costing of training needs and design of a financial scheme to
support training needs.
3.    Implement monitoring indicators that would help assess the cost
effectiveness of the training program.
12.         Rehabilitation Plan
12.1        Subprogram A:  Cadastre of Distribution and Collection Systems
12.1.2      Activities:
1.    Location of all pipes, valves, and appurtenances.
2.    Determination of lengths, diameters, materials, age, and condition.
3.    Assessment of maintenance practices.
4.    Selective  sampling  of pipes  to determine  inside and outside
conditions.
5.   Determination of pipe gradients, capacity and infiltration rates
(sewerage systems).
12.1.3      Outgut:
1.    Detailed plans of the system.
2.    Inventory of pipes and accessories by material, diameter, and age.
3.    Fixed asset evaluation.  Total cost and accumulated depreciation
based on replacement costs and average age.
6'.   Recommendations to maintain information up to date.
12.2        Subprogram B:  Assessment of Physical Plant
12.2.1      2iaective:  Determine capacity and condition of existing system,
actions to optimize it and to improve the quality of operations and maintenance.
12.2.2      Activities:
1.    Assessment of:   intake facilities and raw water quality; water



Page 12 of 13
quality and seasonal flow variations; capacity and condition of
intake structures; metering facilities.
2.    Treatment plants:  unit processes, capacity and condition; effects
of raw water quality on efficiency of unit processes; quality of
treated water and laboratory facilities; metering facilities;
updating plans; equipment; list, and specifications.
3.    Transmission pipelines:  length, diameter, materials and condition
of pipes, valves, and appurtenances, pipe gradients, pressures, and
roughness coefficient, metering facilities.
4.    Pumping stations:   type and capacity of pumps and of power
equipment, efficiency of main equipment, flow and water level
controls, metering equipment, list of equipment and specifications.
5.    Distribution systems:  hydraulic balance (unaccounted for water),
length, diameter, materials and condition of pipes, valves and
appurtenances, flow and pressure measurements to ascertain capacity,
leak detection surveys, analysis of pipe breaks and soil conditions,
computer model of system.
6.    Sewerage Collection System:   length,  diameter,  gradient,  and
condition of pipes, hydraulic balance and flow measurements to
ascertain infiltration and consumptive use flows, drainage areas to
collectors.
7.    Sewage treatment:  characterization of sewage flows and waste-water
quality, effect of discharge on receiving water body, evaluation of
treatment needs, unit process, capacity, and condition, evaluation
of equipment efficiency, metering and laboratory facilities.
12.2.3      Output:
1.    Overall assessment of facility and recommendations to optimize its
capacity, increase efficiency, and reduce costs.
2.    Detailed plans and list of existing structures and equipment.
3.    Detailed plans and specifications of works and equip_ent of proposed
optimization.
4.   Recommendations to improve opetrations and mainteoance, including
proposals for formulating recurrent operations and maintenance
budgets in terms of tasks and monitoreable indicators (routine
maintenance, emergency repairs, rehabilitation and replacement), as
well as in terms of resources (labor, equipment, materials and
supplies).
5.   Detailed cost estimates of proposed works.



ANNEE 14
Page 13 of 13
6.    Recommendations to improve design and construction practices to
reduce capital and operating costs.
7.    Bidding documents for works and equipment.
Suqgested Unit Costs and Indicators
Project Subcomponent        Unit Cost Parameter        Monitoring Indicator
Intake works                    $/m3 per sec.               % I.PA'
Transmission pipes                $/km-diam.                 % I.P.
Treatment plants                $/m3 per sec.                % I.P.
Storage tanks                        $/m3                    8 I.P.
Distribution network            $/s.a.Z'; $/km.              % I.P.
Pumping stations                     $/hp                    8 I.P.
Sewerage collection
systems                       $/h.c.; $/km.               8 I.P.
Collectors and inter-
ceptors                         V/km-diam.                 a I.P.
Pumping stations                     $/hp                    a I.P.
Outfalls                          $/km-diam.                 % I.P.
Sewage treatment plants         $/m3 per sec.                8 I.P.
Development Programs
Network cadastre                 $/km; $/h.c.                 kms.
Commercial systems                  $/h.c.                    s.a.
Users' cadastre                     S/s.a.                    .p.11
Metering programs                  $/meterS                met/year
Accounting systems                  $/s.a.                    e.p.
Training programs$/staff payroll d./staff/yearkl
Strengthening programs              $/s.a.                   e.p.
/ Investment Profile.
2/ Service Account (as a measure of company size).
/ Execution plan as per contract.
i Training days offered per staff per year.



AMM 15
P"e I of 2
VATER UPYAnD SEWERAGE SECTO  IR&=C
ZRtet Pbrforance Indicators for later Entities  /
Service Covera&e
Total Population
Population Served
Water (%)
House Connections J
Other
Sewerage (8)
House Connections hi
Other
Commercial
Water Connections (000)
Metered
Non-metered
Sewerage Connections (000)
Water Billed (000 m3/month)
Metered
Non-metered
Average Water Consumption (H3/conn./month)
Ratio Collection to Billings >.9
Monthly Sales in Accounts Receivable a2.5 months
-gerational
Water Production (000 m3/uonth)
Metered
Estimated
Average production (m3/conn./konth)
Bacteriological and physico-chemical water tests to meet quality standards set
by the Ministry of Hieth a/
Preventive maintenanc program in place a/
AdministrSlYve
Number of employees per 1,000 water connections <5
Adequate training program in place W
Hana8ement information system producing timely reports /



ANNIX 15
Page 2 of 2
Operating Ratio <.6 (operating revenue/operating costs before depreciation) Cash
Flow (operating revenues sufficient to meet operating costs, working capital
needs, debt service, and contribution to investment)
Revenue ($/m3 sold)
Cost ($/m3 sold)
Compliance with revenue covenant
Progress Reports
Timeliness
Quality
Annual Audited Financial Statements
Timeliness
Auditor's opinion
A/    Targets to be established in accordance with the entity's  initial
conditions and the expected results of its plans. The values in front of
some of the indicators are generally associated with satisfactory
performance of water and sewerage companies.
I/   A house connection can serve more than one service account.
/    Type of indicator to be tailored to specific situation.
S/    Specify type of reports and acceptable time lags for its issuance.



Annex 16
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
.............................................
The proposed disbursement categories, the allocation of loan funds and the disbursement
percentages are as follows:
Amount of
Loan     % Expenditures
Category                    (US$)    to be Financed
I. Improvement of Existing Operations:
Equipment & Materials    30,000,000   100.0% of foreign expenditures
75.0%  of local expenditures
Consultants, technical assistance,
audit, training and travel   14,500,000   100.0%
Total   44,500,000
II. Rebabilitation Works:
Civil Works    11,000,000    75.0%
Equipment & Materials    18,000,000   100.0%  of foreign expenditures
60.0% of local expenditures
Total   29,000,000
III. Expansion Works:
Civil Works    11,000,000    60.0%
Equipment & Materials    10,000,000   100.0%  of foreign expenses
60.0%  of local expenditures
Total    21,000,000
IV. Studies and Designs:
Consultants    4,000,000   100.0%
V. Improvement of COFAPYS Operations:
Equipment & Materials    1,000,000   100.0%  of foreign expenditures
75.0% of local expenditures
Consultants, technicitl assistance,
audit, training and travel      500,000   100.0%
Total     1,500,000
TOTAL  100,000.000
.... .......... . . . . . . . .,. . . . . . . .. . . . . .  ._. . . . . . . . .



ANNEX 17
WAT  SUPLY AND EEACE SECTORl PROJECT
Le   Obleburm t    e
Iceitr ly
Bank Ftlccl Y"r        Dliburemeet        Cumuletiv Dcbur_e.mnt
onJ Quarter Ending     ( MUlllone)  (USSulltions)  (1oT.tel)
FY 1001
__....-
March al, 101t                   0.6            9.6           O.X
June 8, 1991                      0.0             1.2           1.21
FY 102
September 3, 1001                 6.6             1.6           1.6X
December 81, 1901                 0.0             2.4           2.4X
March 31, 1M                      0.7            3.1           J.1S
June 30, 1M                       0.7            3.9           3.90
FY 1003
September 30, 1002                0.7             4.6          4.60                    c
Docember 31, 1992                 0.?             5.$          5.8X
March 81, 100o                    2.6            6.0           6.91
June 30, 1993                     2.6            19.6          19.61
FY 1004
September 39, 1003                2.6            13.2          13.21
Decober 31, 10M                  2.6            15.6          15.6X
March 31, 1004                    5.3            21.1         21.1X
June so, 1004                     5.8            26.8          26.8X
PY 10s
September 0, 1004                 5.3            31.6          31.61
Deembe r 31, 1094                 5.8            36.0          3A.0%
March 31, 105                     6.3           43.1          43.1X
June so, 105                      6.3           49.4          49.4S
PY 1906
September U0, 1005                6.3            $5.6         65.61
December 31, 1005                 6.3            61.9         61.01
March 31, 1996                    6.6           67.7         067.X
June W, 100                      5.6            73.4         73.41
FY 1"00
September 0, 1906                 5.1            79.2          79.21
December 31, 1996                 3.6            $6.0         6.61
March 31, 1007                    8.6            66.7          W.7U
June so, 1007                     3.e            92.5         92.51
FY 1900
September at, 1007                3.6            06.2         06.2X
December 31, 10S?                 3.6           190.0         1.11 O



ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 1
ARGENTIN
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Doguments Available in Prolect File
1.              "Plan Nacional de Saneamiento"
Secretaria de Recursos Hfdricos de la Naci6n Agosto, 1988
2.              Informe de Proyecto Argentina
Programa de Agua Potable - SNAP - V Etapa (AR-0117)
Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo 23 noviembre, 1987
3.              "Normas de Estudios Diseffo y Presentaci6n de Proyectos de
Provisi6n de Agua Potable para Poblaciones entre 15,000 y
30,000 habitantes"
M4inisterio de Obras y Servicios Pablicos
Secretarta de Recursos Hsdricos
Servicio Nacional de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Julio de 1984
4.              'Normas de Estudios Disefio y PresentaciUn de Proyectos de
Desaguas Cloacales para Poblaciones entre 15,000 y 30,000
habitantes"
Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Pablicos
Secretarfa de Recursos Hfdricos
Servicio Nacional de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Julio de 1984
5.              Hinisterio de Asistencia Social y Salud PNblica
Servicio Nacional de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Rural
Decreto de Creaci6n No. 9.762 - Buenos Aires 2-12-64
6.              Estructura SNAP
Decreto 4161/84
7.              Proyecto de Ley aprobado el 28 abril, 1988 por la H. Camara de
Diputados de la Naci6n y el 27 septiembre 1988 por el Senado
creando el Consejo Federal de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
(COFAPYS)
8.              Ejecuci6n del Plan Nacional de Agua Potable a traves de sus
cuatro etapas 1966-1988 (SNAP julio 1988)
9.              "Regimen Legal de las Empresas PNblicas en Argentina"
Agustin Gordillo



IBRO 1242~
'  BC  I IVI  A\   /                                ~~~~~~~~OCTO8EI 1984
S O U T H'                  LoOca          c f 
AMERICA
( ?
6<JUA >i1 X % .PARAUA
)Argentuina                              AM                                  N
i..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
I.~~~~~~~TA
SANTIAGO,     Zapoto   Mm                                                        R A  Z I L
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C&v Sm Aim
30-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
SANTIAG ~~~                     ~         AGETIN
,      A    \__    , ~PAMPA     OS           BUEN   mRE l''
- Paved or grave road
EarII rowd,
SANTAprincIoaJ aNrports
c R u z                                   boww~~~~~~~~Prvicalhanaries
elj                                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Inftenational bavndariles
I *tIO GAIEO
I                       I IIERRA DEL
aw. mV*..woFUEGO                                                  0 ,.0             600 \
.              ~        ~      ~~~~~- tot MD Cbf qWt
' d 9 { ..rblyyaaq,             >t S.   ,      .      z       9      2. AT
~~8_ Mn.,   )'-
80~~~~~ s;o.



