Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3281 AR
(Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 13, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3281 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1991, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development Bank 
(IDB) loans (the IDB Loans) in an aggregate amount equivalent to approximately one 
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in agreements (the IDB Loan Agreements) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and IDB; and
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Consejo Federal de Agua Potable y 
Saneamiento (COFAPYS) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to COFAPYS the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Page  2
COFAPYS;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Consejo 
Federal de Agua Potable y Saneamiento (COFAPYS) of even date herewith, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Consejo Federal de Agua Potable y Saneamiento (COFAPYS) 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
"COFAPYS" means Consejo Federal de Agua Potable y Saneamiento, the 
Borrower's financial and technical agency responsible for assisting in the financing 
of water and sewerage projects in both urban and rural communities, established by Law 
No. 23615 of the Borrower, dated September 27, 1988 and published in the Boletin 
Oficial of the Borrower on November 1, 1988;
(e)
"Province" means any of the provinces of the Argentine Republic;
 
(f)
"Sub-borrower" means a provincial, private or municipal water and 
sewerage utility to which COFAPYS proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan (as 
hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made, out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, by COFAPYS to a Sub-borrower for a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined);
(h)
"Sub-project" means a project carried out, or to be carried out, by a 
Sub-borrower under one or more Parts of the Project with, inter alia, the proceeds of 
a Sub-loan;
(i)
"Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement between COFAPYS and a 
Sub-borrower, which agreement contains the terms and conditions of a Sub-loan, and 
"Sub-loan Agreements" means such agreements collectively;
(j)
"Fiscal Year" means January 1 through December 31;
 
(k)
"Credit Regulations" means the regulations to be adopted by COFAPYS 
pursuant to Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement, as mentioned on Section 6.01 (e) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"Participation Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between 
COFAPYS and a Province, pursuant to Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement, including 
all schedules, amendments and supplemental agreements to such agreement, and 
"Participation Agreements" means such agreements collectively;
(m)
"Statutes" means collectively Law No. 23615 of the Borrower, referred to 
in paragraph (d) of this Section, Decree No. 685 of the Borrower, dated May 24, 1989 
and published in the Boletin Oficial of the Borrower on July 6, 1989, and any 
presidential decree, regulations, resolutions and administrative measures of the 
Borrower as may be required pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
Page  3
(n)
"Austral" or "Australes" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(o)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan which qualifies as a free-limit 
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement;
(p)
"Currency Risk Fund" means the fund to be established by COFAPYS pursuant 
to Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;
(q)
"Annual Exchange of Views" means the exchange of views among the 
Borrower, the Bank and COFAPYS referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(r)
"Action Plan" means COFAPYS' action plan for the fiscal years 1991 
through 1997 as set forth in a letter from the Borrower and COFAPYS to the Bank, of 
even date herewith, as such letter may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Bank and the Borrower and COFAPYS;
(s)
"Program" means the Programa Nacional de Optimizacion, Rehabilitacion y 
Ampliacion de Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado Cloacal of the Borrower;
(t)
"Banco Central" means the Central Bank of the Borrower; and
 
(u)
"Municipality" means any municipality located in a Province of the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred million dollars 
($100,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Banco Central in dollars a special account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
Page  4
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The President of the Junta Ejecutiva of COFAPYS, or such other 
person or persons as the President of the Junta Ejecutiva of COFAPYS shall designate 
in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any actions required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause COFAPYS to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of COFAPYS therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable COFAPYS to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to COFAPYS, for 
purposes of carrying out the Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory 
to the Bank to be entered into between the Borrower and COFAPYS, which shall include, 
inter alia, the terms and conditions described in Schedule 6 of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Page  5
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
COFAPYS pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, without limitation to its obligations 
under Article IX of the General Conditions, not later than March 31 of each year, 
beginning in 1992, exchange views with the Bank and COFAPYS on: (i) the progress 
achieved by COFAPYS in carrying out the Project, including implementing the Action 
Plan and meeting the annual operational and financial performance targets referred to 
in Section 2.06 (a) of the Project Agreement; (ii) COFAPY's compliance with the Credit 
Regulations; (iii) Sub-borrowers' compliance with the provisions of the Sub-loan 
Agreements (including water consumption metering, billing and collection, operations 
and maintenance of Sub-borrowers' water and sewer systems, financial performance and 
auditing); (iv) achievement of the agreed overall Bank's  participation in total 
project cost; and (v) appropriateness of the methodologies and assumption to be 
utilized by the Borrower and COFAPYS in establishing the latter's operational and 
financial targets for the present and each of the following fiscal years until 1997, 
as provided in the Action Plan.
(b)
As part of any such Annual Exchange of Views, the Borrower shall review 
the progress of Loan disbursements and IDB Loan disbursements with the Bank and 
COFAPYS. Pursuant to such disbursement progress reviews, the Bank may take the actions 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain an organizational structure for 
COFAPYS satisfactory to the Bank (such structure to provide for appropriate management 
functions for purposes of carrying out the Project and the operations of COFAPYS in 
general).
Section 3.06. The Borrower undertakes that whenever a Province fails to meet its 
guarantee obligations referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (iii) of Schedule 3 to the 
Project Agreement, the Borrower shall retain the revenue sharing funds destined to the 
Province in question as set forth in paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 4 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all action required or necessary on its 
part to allow COFAPYS to meet the operational and financial targets referred to in 
Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices, the resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section (including the Special Account) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, beginning with Fiscal Year 1990, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  6
(a) of this Section, separate records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied on to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
COFAPYS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that COFAPYS will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived, or other legal provisions shall have been enacted, so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of COFAPYS to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of COFAPYS or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
The IDB Agreements shall have failed to become effective by nine months 
after the Effective Date, or by such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any of 
the IDB Loans shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
thereof, or 
(B)
any of the IDB Loans shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under any of the IDB Loan Agreements; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
(g)
The Borrower, COFAPYS and the Bank shall have failed to agree during the 
Annual Exchange of Views on the assumptions and methodologies referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) (v) of this Agreement or on any remedial action required, in the reasonable 
opinion of the Bank, to allow the Borrower or COFAPYS or both to comply with their 
Page  7
respective obligations under this Agreement or the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (g) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and COFAPYS;
(b)
that IDB has approved the IDB Loans;
 
(c)
that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement and 
in the Project Agreement;
(d)
that at least three Sub-loans have been approved by the Bank; and
 
(e)
that the Credit Regulations have been validly adopted by COFAPYS and are 
in full force and effect.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
COFAPYS, and is legally binding upon COFAPYS in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and COFAPYS and is legally binding upon the Borrower and COFAPYS in 
accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the actions referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement have been taken; and
(d)
that the Credit Regulations have been duly adopted and are in full force 
and effect.
Section 6.03. The date November 12, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia
Page  8
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Ministerio Economia
121952
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Domingo Cavallo
 Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Materials and             30,000,000        100% of foreign
    Equipment under                             expenditures;
    Part A of the                               75% of local
    Project which                               expenditures
    are included in
    a Sub-project
(2) Civil works               11,000,000        75%
    under Part B
    the Project
    which are
Page  9
    included in a
    Sub-project
(3) Civil works               11,000,000        60%
    under Part C
    of the Project
    which are
    included in a
    Sub-project
(4) Materials and             18,000,000        100% of foreign
    equipment under                             expenditures;
    Part B of the                               60% of local
    Project ex-                                 expenditures
    penditures which
    are included
    in a Sub-project
(5) Materials and             10,000,000        100% of foreign
    equipment under                             expenditures;
    Part C of the                               60% of local
    Project ex-                                 expenditures
    penditures which
    are included
    in a Sub-project
(6) Materials and              1,000,000        100% of foreign
    equipment under                             expenditures and
    Part E of the                               75% of local
    Project                                     expenditures
(7) Consultants'              18,500,000        100%
    and Auditors'
    services and
    training
    programs
    under Parts A
    and D of the
    Project which
    are included in
    a Sub-project
(8) Consultants' and             500,000        100%
    auditors' services
    and training pro-
    grams under Part E
    of the Project
         TOTAL               100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower, and the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (i) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; or (ii) expenditures for goods, works or services supplied under a contract 
which any national or international financing institution or agency other than the 
Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of works, goods or services included in a Sub-project unless the 
Sub-loan for that Sub-project has been approved or authorized and the respective 
Sub-loan Agreement has been declared effective by COFAPYS, and made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 
of the Project Agreement, (and COFAPYS has provided the Bank a certification to this 
effect which shall include the declaration that the Sub-borrower has met the criteria 
required under Schedule 4 of the Project Agreement) and unless there is in effect a 
Participation Agreement, as described in Schedule 3 of the Project Agreement, with the 
Province in which the Sub-borrower operates.
Page  10
5.
Pursuant to each and any of the annual disbursement progress reviews described 
in Sections 2.06 (b) of the Project Agreement and 3.04 (b) of this Agreement, the Bank 
may, in its sole discretion and in order to assure that the Bank and IDB each finance 
or are committed to finance approximately forty percent (40%) of the total aggregate 
Project costs during the Project execution: (i) refuse to approve any Sub-loans under 
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement; and (ii) refuse to authorize 
any withdrawals for free-limit Sub-loans under paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 2 of the 
Project Agreement (except in the case of free-limit Sub-loans for which at least one 
withdrawal has already been authorized by the Bank). Such refusals may continue until 
the Bank is satisfied that IDB has financed or committed to finance amounts 
approximately equal to the original principal of Sub-loans approved by the Bank under 
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement, plus the original principal of 
free-limit Sub-loans for which at least one
withdrawal has been authorized by the Bank under paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 2 of the 
Project Agreement. Once the Bank is satisfied regarding IDB financing, the Bank shall 
reconsider such prior refusals.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Program by improving the 
efficiency, financial viability, coverage, and quality of water supply and sewerage 
services in urban areas (each containing at least 15,000 inhabitants) of the Borrower 
while at the same time protecting the environment, to strengthen the institutional 
performance of COFAPYS and of Sub-borrowers and to encourage private sector 
participation in the water and sewerage sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of Existing Operations of Sub-borrowers Institutional 
Development
1.
Acquisition and utilization by Sub-borrowers of materials and equipment, and 
provision to Sub-borrowers of technical assistance, all for the purposes of developing 
and improving the Sub-borrowers': (i) financial, accounting and information systems; 
(ii) audit services; (iii) organizational, planning, administrative and logistical 
systems; (iv) purchasing and inventory management systems; and (v) environmental 
assessment capabilities.
2.
Technical Assistance for defining and preparing plans for: (i) the structural 
changes in the provision of water supply and sewerage services system at the 
provincial or municipal level, including, inter alia, measures to privatize such 
services, to transfer to the municipalities the provision of such services or to 
establish concessions; and (ii) the establishment of suitable government agencies to 
regulate such privately or municipally controlled services and for the improvement of 
incentives for priority provision of public services.
Commercialization of Water Supply and Sewerage Services
1.
Acquisition and utilization by Sub-borrowers of materials and equipment, and 
provision to Sub-borrowers of technical assistance, all for purposes of facilitating 
commercialization of water supply provided by Sub-borrowers, through: (i) preparation 
of detailed surveys of water consumers and water and sewerage connections; (ii) design 
and implementation of water metering systems; (iii) design and implementation of water 
tariff policies for metered services; (iv) establishment of a comprehensive meter 
reading, billing, and collection system; and (v) improvement of customer services.
Operational Improvements
2.
Acquisition and utilization by Sub-borrowers of materials and equipment, and 
provision to Sub-borrowers of technical assistance, all for purposes of: (i) 
implementing macrometering, micrometering and pitometry; (ii) mapping and surveying 
water distribution and sewage collection systems; and (iii) improving operational and 
maintenance systems and procedures.
Training of Personnel
3.
Training of Sub-borrower personnel either on-the-job or through: (i) suitable 
Page  11
cooperative programs with other water supply enterprises; (ii) study of modern foreign 
water supply and sewerage companies; and (iii) courses, seminars and post-graduate 
studies on water and sewerage utility management or conducive towards improving such 
management; including the acquisition and utilization of training materials.
Part B:
Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Water and Sewerage Systems of 
Sub-borrowers
1.
Repairing and replacing water distribution and sewage mains.
 
2.
Upgrading and optimization of water and sewage treatment plants.
 
3.
Construction and upgrading of other facilities required for the operation of 
water and sewerage systems.
Part C:
Establishment and Expansion of Water and Sewerage Systems of 
Sub-borrowers
1.
Setting up or expanding water distribution networks and water system capacity 
through the construction or rehabilitation of production, treatment, transmission, and 
storage facilities.
2.
Setting up or expanding sewage collection networks and sewerage system capacity 
through the construction or rehabilitation of treatment, disposal, conveyance, and 
reuse facilities.
Part D:
Carrying out of Other Studies and Preparation of Engineering Designs by 
Sub-borrowers
Technical assistance for:
1.
Preparing water supply and sewerage master plans and feasibility studies and 
designs, including water quality assurance measures, for: (i) the rehabilitation of 
water and sewerage systems of Sub-borrowers; and (ii) the expansion of water and 
sewerage systems of the Sub-borrowers.
2.
Carrying out of research studies aimed at improving the operation of water and 
sewerage systems.
3.
Carrying out studies to ascertain potential negative environmental impact of 
proposed Sub-projects and potential remedial actions to minimize such impact.
Part E:
Improvement of COFAPYS' Operations Institutional Development
 
1.
Acquisition and utilization by COFAPYS of materials and equipment, and provision 
to COFAPYS of technical assistance, all for the purposes of developing and improving 
COFAPYS': (i) capabilities on Sub-project promotion, appraisal and supervision, on 
environmental assessment, and on financial management; (ii) administrative and 
logistical systems; (iii) audit services; and (iv) research capabilities.
Training of Personnel
2.
Training of COFAPYS' personnel through: (i) visits to water supply enterprises; 
and (ii) courses, seminars and post-graduate studies on water and sewerage utility 
management and operations or conductive towards improving such management and 
operations; including the preparation, acquisition and utilization of training 
materials.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              
(expressed in dollars)*
 
      On each May 15 and November 15
            beginning May 15, 1996
Page  12
            through May 15, 2007          
4,165,000
 
      and on November 15, 2007            
4,205,000
 
______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                  
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed 
as a percentage per annum) 
applicable to the 
Loan on the 
day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
 
Not more than three years                       
0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                       
0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         
0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  
0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity
More than fifteen years before                  
1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories set forth in the 
Page  13
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to four 
million dollars ($4,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice tothe Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
Page  14
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the 
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor;
"or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan, 
(i) have received No applications or requests under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) 
of 
said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests. The 
Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to 
submit 
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the 
Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall 
be 
cancelled."
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.
The funds onlent to COFAPYS under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be 
denominated in dollars and the amounts withdrawn thereunder and outstanding (together 
with interest and other charges thereon) shall be payable in Australes in amounts 
equivalent to the various currencies in which the principal amount of the Loan and 
interest and other charges thereon are to be paid to the Bank pursuant to Article IV 
of the General Conditions in respect to the amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account 
for purposes of making such Subsidiary Loan.
2.
COFAPYS shall repay to the Borrower all amounts of principal withdrawn and 
outstanding under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, under an amortization schedule which 
corresponds to the amortization schedule referred to in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
3.
COFAPYS shall pay interest to the Borrower, on the principal amounts withdrawn 
by COFAPYS under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and outstanding from time to time, at a 
rate equivalent to the rate applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement.
4.
COFAPYS shall pay to the Borrower a commitment charge, on the principal amount 
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, equivalent to that specified in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
5.
COFAPYS shall make the payments of principal, interest and charges as aforesaid 
Page  15
semiannually no later than five days in advance of the dates set forth in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
