Page  1
October 30, 1997 
Mr. Roque Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras
   y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Mr. Mario E. Fattor 
Administrador Ente Nacional de Obras Hídricas
   de Saneamiento 
Moreno 2038 
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 3281-AR (Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project) 
Assumption of Rights and Obligations under the Project 
Agreement and Related Instruments;  Amendment to the Loan 
and Project Agreements
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated August 13, 
1991 (the Loan Agreement; as amended), as well as to the Project Agreement of even 
date therewith between Consejo Federal de Agua Potable y Saneamiento (COFAPYS) and the 
Bank, both entered into with respect to the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased 
to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the 
subject, the Bank agrees to the replacement of COFAPYS by Ente Nacional de Obras 
Hídricas de Saneamiento (ENOHSA) and to therefore amend the Loan and Project 
Agreements as follows:
ASSUMPTION
1.
Pursuant to Article 4 of the Borrower's Law No. 24,583 published in the 
Borrower's Boletín Oficial on November 27, 1995 and to Article 22.1 of ENOHSA's 
Estatuto published in said Boletín Oficial on February 10, 1997, ENOHSA assumes, and 
as a result agrees to carry out and fulfill, all of the covenants, agreements and 
obligations of COFAPYS contained or referred to in the Project Agreement, the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (as defined in the Loan Agreement), all Sub-loan Agreements 
(as defined in the Loan Agreement), all Participation Agreements (as defined in the 
Loan Agreement) and the three August 13, 1991 side letters (regarding annual exchange 
of views, action plan and Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement) entered into 
among the Bank, the Borrower and COFAPYS with regard to the above-captioned Project.
2.
The Bank hereby recognizes the succession of ENOHSA to the rights and 
obligations of COFAPYS under the Project Agreement and under all other instruments 
listed in paragraph 1 above, and, consequently, ENOHSA is hereby substituted for 
COFAPYS as a party to the Project Agreement and all said instruments.
3.
All actions taken, rights acquired or obligations incurred under the Project 
Agreement and under all other instruments listed in paragraph 1 above shall be valid 
and binding on ENOHSA as though ENOHSA had been COFAPYS, and the coming into effect of 
the terms of this amendment letter shall not affect the consequences of any action 
taken or omitted to be taken by the Bank or COFAPYS under the Project Agreement and 
all other said instruments.
4.
For purposes of Section 5.02 of the Project Agreement, the authorized 
representative of ENOHSA shall be its Administrador or such other person or persons as 
the Administrador shall designate in writing.  ENOHSA shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the 
authorized representative and each such person. 
LOAN AGREEMENT
Page  2
5.
General:  The word "COFAPYS", wherever it appears and except as otherwise 
replaced pursuant to this amendment letter, is hereby replaced by the word "ENOHSA"; 
the word "Austral", wherever it appears, is hereby replaced by the word "Peso"; the 
word "Australes", wherever it appears, is hereby replaced by the word "Pesos".
6.
WHEREAS Clause (C); Section 1.02 (a); Section 1.02 (b):  The words "Consejo 
Federal de Agua Potable y Saneamiento" are hereby replaced by the words "Ente Nacional 
de Obras Hídricas de Saneamiento".
7.
Section 1.02 (d):  This paragraph is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  ""ENOHSA" means Ente Nacional de Obras Hídricas de Saneamiento, the 
Borrower's agency responsible for assisting in the financing of water and sewerage 
projects in both urban and rural communities, established by Law No. 24,583 published 
in the Borrower's Boletín Oficial on November 27, 1995;".
8.
Section 1.02 (m):  This paragraph is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  ""Statutes" means collectively Law No. 24,583 referred to in paragraph (d) 
of this Section, the ENOHSA Estatuto published in the Borrower’s Boletín Oficial on 
February 10, 1997 and any presidential decree, regulations, resolutions and 
administrative measures of the Borrower as may be required pursuant to Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement;".
9.
Section 1.02 (t):  This paragraph is hereby amended by deleting the word "; and" 
at the end thereof.
10.
Section 1.02 (u):  This paragraph is hereby amended by replacing the period at 
the end thereof with the word "; and".    
11.
New Section 1.02 (v):  This paragraph is added immediately after Section 1.02 
(u) and shall read as follows in its entirety: ""SOP-SRH" means the Borrower's 
Secretaría de Obras Públicas-Subsecretaría de Gestión de los Recursos Hídricos (Public 
Works Secretariat-Subsecretariat of Water Resources Management);.
12.
Section 2.03:  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the date "June 30, 
1998" with the date "June 30, 1999".
13.
Section 2.08:  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words "President 
of the Junta Ejecutiva", wherever they appear, with the word "Administrador".
14.
Section 3.06:  This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words "paragraph 
4 (c)" with the words "paragraph 5 (c)".
15.
New Section 3.08:  This new Section is added immediately after Section 3.07 and 
shall read as follows in its entirety: "The Borrower, through SOP-SRH, shall instruct 
ENOHSA as to, inter alia, the appropriate terms of reference and bidding documents to 
be used by ENOHSA in procuring the equipment and materials, and in contracting the 
necessary technical assistance and training, for purposes of carrying out Part F of 
the Project (while at all times requiring compliance with ENOHSA’s obligations as set 
forth in the Project Agreement).". 
16.
Schedule 1, paragraph 1:  The table in this paragraph is hereby amended to read 
as set forth in Attachment A hereto.
17.
Schedule 2:  The first paragraph of this Schedule is hereby amended by replacing 
the word "COFAPYS" with the words "ENOHSA, SOP-SRH".
18.
Schedule 2, Part A:  The last sub-parts 1, 2 and 3 of this Part A are hereby 
renumbered as sub-parts 3, 4 and 5, respectively.
19.
Schedule 2, New Part D.4:  This Part is hereby added immediately after Part D.3 
and shall read as follows in its entirety:  "(a) Preparing the possible privatizations 
of publicly owned or operated provincial or municipal water and sewerage utilities in 
Argentina; (b) preparing and proceeding with regulatory initiatives related to said 
privatizations; and (c) carrying out studies in support of such privatizations.".
20.
Schedule 2, New Part E:  This Part is hereby added immediately after Part D and 
shall read as follows in its entirety:
"Improvement of ENOHSA's Operations
Institutional Development
Page  3
1.
Acquisition and utilization by ENOHSA of materials and equipment, and provision 
to ENOHSA of technical assistance, all for the purposes of developing and improving 
ENOHSA's:  (i) capabilities on Sub-project promotion, appraisal and supervision, on 
environmental assessment, and on financial management; (ii) administrative and 
logistical systems; (iii) audit services; and (iv) research capabilities.
Training of Personnel
2.
Training of ENOHSA personnel through:  (i) visits to water supply enterprises; 
and (ii) courses, seminars and post-graduate studies on water and sewerage utility 
management and operations or conducive towards improving such management and 
operations; including the preparation, acquisition and utilization of training 
materials."
21.
Schedule 2, New Part F:  This Part is hereby added immediately after Part E and 
shall read as follows in its entirety:
"Strengthening the Capacity of the Borrower for Policy Formulation and Implementation
1.
Acquisition and utilization for SOP-SRH of equipment and materials, and 
provision of technical assistance to SOP-SRH for:  (i) preparing a country-wide sector 
strategy for improving water and sanitation services at federal, provincial, municipal 
and sub-municipal levels; (ii) developing a country-wide water and sanitation sector 
data base and information system; (iii) strengthening the regulatory framework for the 
provision of water and sanitation services at the federal, provincial and municipal 
levels; (iv) assisting provincial and municipal governments in the privatization of 
utilities, and in improving the government support to non-privatized areas and 
activities of the water and sanitation sector, including rural areas and low-income 
urban areas; and (v) supporting the development and enforcement of environmental 
policies and regulations.
2.
Training, including the acquisition and utilization of training materials, of 
selected personnel of the federal, provincial and municipal governments through:  (i) 
short courses and workshops; (ii) twinning arrangements; (iii) secondment and 
internship programs; and (iv) field trips."
22.
Schedule 2:  The last sentence of this Schedule is hereby amended by replacing 
the date "December 31, 1997" with the date "December 31, 1998".
PROJECT AGREEMENT
23.
New Section 2.13: This new Section is added immediately after Section 2.12 and 
shall read as follows in its entirety: "ENOHSA shall carry out Part F of the Project 
according to instructions from SOP-SRH (while at all times complying with ENOHSA’s 
obligations as set forth in this Agreement).". 
24.
Schedule 2:  (a) Sub-paragraphs 1 (b), (c) and (d) of this Schedule are hereby 
amended by replacing the word "Australes", wherever it appears, with the word "Pesos";
(b)
the last sentence of sub-paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule is hereby 
amended to read as follows in its entirety:  "For the purposes of the Loan Agreement 
and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-project whose 
total expected cost, financed from whatever sources and described in the withdrawal 
authorization request specified in paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, shall not exceed 
the sum of five million dollars ($5,000,000) equivalent."; and
(c)
sub-paragraph 3 (c) of this Schedule is hereby amended by replacing the 
date "June 30, 1996" with the date "June 30, 1998".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
three counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, 
please return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment 
letter will become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.  Because of his interest in this 
matter, we are sending a copy of this amendment letter to Mr. Eugenio Pendás, 
Secretary of Public Works.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
Page  4
  AND DEVELOPMENT
Myrna Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit
 for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
ENOHSA
By /s/
By /s/
Roque Fernández
Mario E. Fattor
Date: February 12, 1998
Date: December 9, 1997
ATTACHMENT A
Amount of the Loan
Allocated (Expressed
% of Expenditures to 
be
Category
in Dollar Equivalent)
        Financed
(1)
Materials and equipment
9,300,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures
under Part A of the
and 75% of local expenditures
Project which are included
in a Sub-project
(2)
Civil works under Part B     26,100,000
75%
of the Project which are
included in a Sub-project
(3)
Civil works under Part C
of the Project which are
included in:
(a)
a Sub-project other
43,800,000
60%
than the Sub-project
of Administración
Provincial de Obras
Sanitarias-Posadas
(b)
the Sub-project of
 2,100,000
80%
Administración
Provincial de Obras
Sanitarias-Posadas
(4)
Materials and equipment
   0
100% of foreign 
expenditures
under Part B of the Project
and 60% of local 
expenditures
which are included in a
Sub-project
(5)
Materials and equipment
         0
100% of foreign 
expenditures
under Part C of the Project
and 60% of local 
expenditures
which are included in a
Sub-project
(6)
Materials and equipment
         0
100% of foreign 
expenditures
under Part E of the Project
and 75% of local 
expenditures
(7)
Consultants’ and auditors’  11,100,000
100%
Page  5
services and training
programs under Parts A
and D of the Project
which are included in a
Sub-project
(8)
Consultants’ and auditors’     600,000
100%
services and training
programs under Part E
of the Project
(9)
Consultants’ services
        7,000,000
100%
under Part F of the
Project
TOTAL
      100,000,000
