Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3281 AR
(Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CONSEJO FEDERAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO
Dated August 13, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3281 AR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CONSEJO FEDERAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO 
(COFAPYS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Argentine 
Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars 
($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that COFAPYS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and COFAPYS, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
onlent to COFAPYS on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS COFAPYS, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. COFAPYS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in accordance with sound financial 
and administrative standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management 
and in accordance with its Statutes, Credit Regulations, and the Action Plan.
Section 2.02. (a) COFAPYS undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, provided however 
that no Sub-loan shall be made to a Sub-borrower, requiring the guarantee of a 
Province or the granting by such Province of counterpart funds for the carrying out of 
a Sub-project, unless COFAPYS shall: (i) demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Bank, 
that the respective Province has a current account surplus; or (ii) present to the 
Bank a financial action and investment plan satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, 
for such Province.
(b)
COFAPYS shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, of the Borrower, and of COFAPYS; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
(c)
COFAPYS shall utilize the proceeds accrued to COFAPYS from the repayment 
of principal of, and payment of interest and other charges on, the Sub-loans 
exclusively for making other loans for the same purposes and under the same terms and 
conditions as those set forth in respect of Sub-loans under this Agreement, provided, 
however, that such proceeds are not required for purposes
of repayment of principal or payment of interest and other charges under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.04. COFAPYS shall carry out, or cause Sub-borrowers to carry out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project.
Section 2.05. COFAPYS shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, COFAPYS shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) COFAPYS shall take all such action as shall be required to 
ensure that COFAPYS meets the annual operational and financial performance targets 
included in the Action Plan.
(b)
COFAPYS shall, annually during Project execution beginning one year after 
the Effective Date, review the progress of Loan disbursements and IDB Loan 
disbursements with the Borrower and the Bank.
(c)
Not later than March 31 of each year beginning in 1992, COFAPYS shall 
exchange views with the Borrower and the Bank on the progress achieved by the Borrower 
and COFAPYS in carrying out the Project, as provided in Section 3.04 of the Loan 
Page  3
Agreement, and in meeting the annual performance targets referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section. In addition, COFAPYS shall, at any time during Project execution if 
requested by the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the performance of the parties to the Sub-loan Agreements 
(including water consumption metering, billing and collection, operations and 
maintenance of Sub-borrowers' water and sewer systems, financial performance and 
auditing), and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(d)
COFAPYS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by COFAPYS of its obligations under this 
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the Sub-loan Agreements.
Section 2.07. As part of the institutional strengthening activities under Part A 
of the Project, COFAPYS shall employ, by not later than 120 (one hundred twenty days 
after the date of this Agreement), unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, five 
consultants, one with international expertise in environmental assessment, a second 
with international expertise in financial management of credit institutions, a third 
with international expertise in the technical evaluation of water supply and sewerage 
projects, a fourth with international expertise in the commercialization and financial 
management of water supply and sewerage services, and a fifth with
international expertise in the socio-economic evaluation of water and sewerage 
projects. These consultants or their replacements shall remain at COFAPYS's service 
for a period of at least four  years (two years in the case of the credit institutions 
financial management consultant) after their employment and may be complemented, as 
necessary, by specialized consultants employed on a short-term basis.
Section 2.08. COFAPYS shall adopt Credit Regulations satisfactory to the Bank, 
which Credit Regulations shall contain, inter alia, the terms and conditions specified 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. During Project execution, and concurrently with the 
exchange of views described in Section 2.06 (c) of this Agreement, COFAPYS and the 
Bank shall review the conditions included in such Credit Regulations. If so required 
by the Bank pursuant to such reviews, COFAPYS shall amend the Credit Regulations in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank. No other revisions shall be made, nor shall COFAPYS 
cancel, abrogate, or in any other manner make the Credit Regulations ineffective, 
without prior Bank approval.
Section 2.09. Before making a Sub-loan to a particular Sub-borrower, which 
requires the guarantee of a Province or the granting by such Province of counterpart 
funds for the carrying out of a Sub-project, COFAPYS shall have entered into a 
Participation Agreement with the Province in which the Sub-borrower operates, and such 
Participation Agreement shall include, inter alia, the terms and conditions described 
in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
Section 2.10. COFAPYS shall establish a financial accounting system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, so as to be able to use such system in preparing for Fiscal 
Year 1990 and thereafter its financial statements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) 
of this Agreement.
Section 2.11. Not later than December 31, 1991, COFAPYS shall establish, and 
thereafter maintain, an environmental assessment unit (hereinafter "EAU") within 
COFAPYS, the staffing of which shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The responsibilities 
of the EAU shall be satisfactory to the Bank and include, inter alia, assisting 
COFAPYS and Sub-borrower in determining the environmental impact of Sub-projects and 
in evaluating proposed actions to minimize negative
effects of such environmental impact.
Section 2.12. Not later than April 30 of each year, starting in 1991 and until 
the Project has been completed, COFAPYS shall establish and furnish to the Bank 
operational and financial performance targets for the present and each of the 
following fiscal years, satisfactory to the Bank, such targets to be based on the 
Action Plan and on other assumptions and methodologies agreed with the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) COFAPYS shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each Sub-project (including its 
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
Page  4
condition of COFAPYS.
(b)
COFAPYS shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, beginning with Fiscal Year 1990, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank acting 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, COFAPYS shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained separate records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied on to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 3.02. (a) COFAPYS shall take such steps as shall be necessary to protect 
itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between 
the currencies (including the currency of the Borrower) used in its operations. 
(b)
As part of the foregoing, COFAPYS shall establish not later than February 
28, 1991, and thereafter maintain, a separate fund (the Currency Risk Fund) on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with the sole purpose of providing resources 
to COFAPYS to cover any amounts to be paid by COFAPYS as a result of differences 
between Sub-loan principal repayments, interest and other charges collected by COFAPYS 
and the amounts to be paid to the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)
COFAPYS shall retain and deposit promptly into the Currency Risk Fund a 
part of the amounts collected by COFAPYS as interest on Sub-loans, such part to be 
initially equivalent to two percentage points and to be revised by COFAPYS in terms 
satisfactory to the Bank after such revision of the Credit Regulations made pursuant 
to Section 2.08 of this Agreement.
(d)
COFAPYS shall: (i) maintain separate records and accounts for the 
Currency Risk Fund; and (ii) manage the Currency Risk Fund in accordance with sound 
administrative and financial practices set forth in the Credit Regulations, such 
practices to be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
Page  5
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of COFAPYS 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify COFAPYS thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For COFAPYS:
Moreno 2038
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
AGUAAR
Baires
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of COFAPYS, or by 
COFAPYS on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed 
by the President of the Junta Ejecutiva of COFAPYS or such other person or persons as 
the President of the Junta Ejecutiva of COFAPYS shall designate in writing, and 
COFAPYS shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Page  6
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONSEJO FEDERAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y
   SANEAMIENTO
By /s/ Antonio Bonifasi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works for the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), and through the use 
of bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be consistent with the 
"Sample Bidding Documents: Procurement of Goods" published by the Bank in March 1986 
and the "Sample Bidding Documents: Procurement of Works" published by the Bank in 
September 1985.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part B, civil works estimated 
to cost the equivalent of not more than $4,000,000 per contract, as well as equipment 
and material estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $200,000 per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three local qualified contractors, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Equipment and material estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $25,000 per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to civil works estimated to cost in excess of $4,000,000 per 
contract, with respect to equipment and materials estimated to cost in excess of 
$200,000 per contract, with respect to the first civil works and the first equipment 
and material contracts for each Province, and with respect to one civil works contract 
and one equipment and material contract for each Province in every two year period 
thereafter, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
Page  7
statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of ten percent (10%) is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist COFAPYS in carrying out the Project, COFAPYS shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Sub-loans
The procedures for and the terms and conditions of Sub-loans shall be those set 
forth in the Credit Regulations and shall, inter alia, include those set forth in this 
Schedule.
1.
(a)
Amortization periods shall in all cases exceed one year and shall not 
exceed sixteen years for Sub-loans to finance Part C of the Project, twelve years for 
Sub-loans to finance Parts A and B of the Project, and six years for Sub-loans to 
finance Part D of the Project. Grace periods for any of these Sub-loans shall not 
exceed five years.
(b)
The funds onlent to Sub-borrowers under the Sub-loan Agreements shall be 
denominated in dollars and the amounts withdrawn thereunder and outstanding (together 
with interest and other charges thereon) shall be payable in Australes at such a rate 
of exchanges as shall allow COFAPYS to purchase dollars on the date of repayment in an 
amount equivalent to the dollar-denominated portion of Sub-loan principal being paid 
on such date.
(c)
The interest rate applicable to each Sub-loan shall be payable in 
Australes at the rate of exchange referred to in subparagraph (b) above in effect at 
the time payment is due, and shall be at least equal to the interest rate applicable 
to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement, plus a margin set in 
accordance with the Credit Regulations, of six percentage points, which margin shall 
contribute towards covering the administrative costs and credit risks of COFAPYS. Part 
of such margin, equivalent to two percentage points, shall be deposited into the 
Currency Risk Fund, as specified in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement. Such interest 
rate shall be revised from time to time as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement.
(d)
Sub-borrowers shall pay a commitment charge in Australes, at the rate of 
exchange referred to in subparagraph (b) above in effect at the time payment is due, 
at least equal to the commitment charge specified in Section 2.04 of the Loan 
Agreement.
2.
No expenditures for works, goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the Bank 
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the 
date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information required 
under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan 
for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the 
purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, (i) a free-limit Sub-loan shall be 
a Sub-loan for a Sub-project whose total expected cost, financed from whatever sources 
and described in the withdrawal authorization request specified in paragraph 3 (b) of 
this Schedule, shall not exceed the sum of five million dollars ($5,000,000) 
equivalent, and (ii) the first six Sub-loans made by COFAPYS shall not be deemed 
free-limit Sub-loans regardless of the total expected cost of the Sub-projects to 
which they apply.
Page  8
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, COFAPYS shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory 
to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Sub-borrower and an appraisal of 
the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the 
Sub-loan, including the Schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan to be used for the 
Sub-project; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by COFAPYS (through the Borrower) for authorization to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: 
(i) a summary description of the Sub-borrower and the Sub-project, including a 
statement of the total expected cost (including a margin for potential overruns) of 
the Sub-project and a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including 
the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before June 30, 1996.
4.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby COFAPYS shall obtain, by written 
Sub-loan Agreement with the Sub-borrower, rights adequate to protect the interests of 
the Bank and COFAPYS, including, in the case of any Sub-loan the right to:
(a)
require the Sub-borrower to carry out and operate the Sub-project (which 
shall be fully described in the Sub-loan Agreement) with due diligence and efficiency 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
administrative, environmental and utility standards and to maintain adequate records 
both in general and specifically for the Sub-project;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured by the Sub-borrower in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, the offices of the Sub-borrower and/or such goods, works, 
plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Sub-borrower shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Sub-borrower to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or COFAPYS shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Sub-borrower and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; 
and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations 
under its Sub-loan Agreement with COFAPYS.
5.
Sub-loan Agreements shall also include provisions whereby:
 
(a)
the Sub-borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations 
and financial condition, including separate records and accounts adequate to reflect 
all resources and expenditures in respect of the Sub-project;
(b)
the Sub-borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph 5 (a) of this Schedule and its financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal Year audited 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to COFAPYS and the Bank; (ii) furnish to COFAPYS as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
Page  9
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as COFAPYS shall have reasonably requested (which report shall include an 
analysis of the Subborrower's performance as measured by the performance indicators 
described in paragraph 5 (d) to this Schedule); and (iii) furnish to COFAPYS such 
other information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well 
as the audit thereof, as COFAPYS or the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request;
(c)
when applying for Sub-loan withdrawals and as a precondition therefor, 
the Sub-borrower shall present to COFAPYS documentation justifying the expenditures to 
which such withdrawals shall apply, and the documentation shall be such as would be 
acceptable by the Bank for processing withdrawal applications presented by COFAPYS 
(through the Borrower) under the Loan Agreement;
(d)
the Sub-borrower shall be required to: (i) meet certain annual 
performance levels satisfactory to the Bank, as measured by performance indicators 
also satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) report to COFAPYS each January and July of 
each Fiscal Year, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress of the 
Sub-project as measured by such performance indicators which shall be specified in the 
Sub-loan Agreement and which shall include, inter alia, service coverage indicators 
(such as number of house water and sewerage connections), commercial indicators (such 
as number of metered water connections and collections to billings ratio), operational 
indicators (such as amount of water distributed and its bacteriological and 
physico-chemical quality and network pressure), administrative indicators (such as 
number of employees per thousand water connections), and financial indicators (such as 
certain financial ratios);
(e)
The Sub-borrower shall prepare and present to COFAPYS, on a date to be 
determined by COFAPYS, the following:
(i)
a plan for metering the consumption of at least 30% of consumers 
that account for at least 50% of total water consumption;
(ii)
a design of a tariff system based on metered consumption;
 
(iii)
a plan for improving billing and collection systems; and
 
(iv)
a plan for improving the Sub-borrower's operation and maintenance 
systems and practices; and
(f)
the Sub-borrower shall, at the conclusion of Sub-project execution, 
submit to COFAPYS in a manner and by a date satisfactory to COFAPYS and the Bank a 
Sub-project completion report.
6.
COFAPYS shall not enter into a Sub-loan Agreement unless there is an executed 
and valid Participation Agreement (as described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement) in 
effect for the Province in which the Sub-borrower operates.
7.
Sub-loan Agreements shall provide that the Sub-borrower must contribute, from 
amounts generated internally by its own operations or provided by customers of the 
Sub-borrower, funds for the Sub-project equal to at least seventy percent (70%) of all 
aggregate Sub-project costs not financed from proceeds of the Loan.
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of
Participation Agreements
1.
Prior to entering into a Sub-loan Agreement with a Sub-borrower, COFAPYS shall 
first enter into a Participation Agreement with the Province where the Sub-borrower 
operates. Such Participation Agreement shall, inter alia, provide as follows:
(a)
with regard to Sub-borrowers that are provincial or municipal water and 
sewerage utilities:
(i)
that the Province agrees to provide to the Sub-borrower, for 
purposes of the Sub-project, funds sufficient to cover the amount 
of all aggregate Sub-project costs not financed from proceeds of 
the Loan or by the Sub-borrower under paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement;
(ii)
that the Province agrees that procurement of the goods, works, and 
Page  10
services required for the Sub-project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, which provisions shall prevail over 
any contrary provisions contained in the laws and regulations of 
the Province;
(iii)
that the Province unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor 
and not merely as surety, the due and punctual payment to COFAPYS 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the 
Sub-loan, and the punctual performance of all other obligations of 
the Sub-borrower, all as set forth in the Sub-loan Agreement; and
(iv)
that the Province agrees to ensure that the Sub-borrower maintain 
the institutional criteria described in paragraph 2 (b) of 
Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
(b)
with regard to Sub-borrowers that are not provincial or municipal water 
and sewerage utilities:
(i)
that the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) (i) and (a) (iii) of 
this paragraph shall not apply; and
(ii)
that the Province agrees to take no action which would result in a 
failure by such water and sewerage utilities to maintain the 
institutional criteria described in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
(c)
with regard to all Sub-borrowers, that the Provinces take all such 
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to adjust tariffs in such way as to ensure the 
generation of operating revenues sufficient for Sub-borrowers to carry out the 
Subprojects.
(d)
that the Province agrees to implement water metering systems proposed by 
Sub-borrowers, provided, however that such systems shall be satisfactory to the 
Borrower, the Bank and COFAPYS.
2.
No Participation Agreement shall be deemed to be in effect unless duly approved 
by whatever action is necessary, including if required approval by the legislature of 
the relevant Province, and unless the Bank has received a legal opinion, satisfactory 
to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank, that the Participation Agreement has 
been so approved and has been duly authorized or
ratified by, executed and delivered on behalf of, and is legally binding upon, COFAPYS 
and the Province.
3.
If the Bank shall so agree, the Guarantee of a Sub-loan and the granting of 
counterpart funds required for the carrying out of a Sub-project, according to Section 
2.09 of this Agreement, can be provided by a Municipality, provided, however, that 
such Municipality meets the criteria of eligibility referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement. In such case, in addition to the Participation Agreement to be entered 
into with the Province where such Municipality is located, COFAPYS, prior to entering 
into a Sub-loan Agreement with a Sub-borrower, shall enter into contractual 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with such Municipality, such arrangements to 
include, inter alia, all the conditions set forth in this Agreement for a Province.
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of the
Credit Regulations
1.
The Credit Regulations shall describe the objectives of the Project.
 
2.
The Credit Regulations shall describe the criteria to be used to determine which 
Sub-borrowers and Sub-projects are eligible for Sub-loans. These criteria are, inter 
alia, as follows:
(a)
Technical-Economic: each Sub-project shall require technical and economic 
evaluation to demonstrate its feasibility, and that it is the least cost alternative, 
as such concept is defined in the Credit Regulations;
(b)
Environmental: each Sub-project shall require preparation of an 
environmental impact study as a condition for eligibility, and such study shall detail 
the measures, if any, required to ensure that the Sub-project be environmentally sound 
Page  11
and sustainable;
(c)
Institutional: each Sub-borrower shall have juridical personality and 
sufficient autonomy to manage its installations, equipment and materials in an 
entrepreneurial and efficient manner, including the capacity and authority to: (i) 
manage, hire, promote, and reduce or replace its personnel; (ii) manage its liquid 
assets, as such term is defined in the Credit Regulations, to ensure the best return 
commercially available; (iii) promptly collect accounts receivable, disconnect 
customers for failure to pay bills issued by the Sub-borrower, and undertake 
litigation or other remedial legal actions; and (v) establish a commercial accounting 
system for its operations; and
(d)
Financial: each Sub-borrower seeking a Sub-loan for purposes of Parts B 
and C of the Project: (i) shall assume the obligation under the respective Sub-loan 
Agreement that it shall have sufficient total operating revenues to cover its total 
working expenses and debt service requirements before such Sub-loan Agreement can be 
declared effective by COFAPYS and before such Sub-borrower can enter into any 
commitment under such Sub-loan Agreement; and (ii) shall submit, as a condition for 
eligibility, a financial plan for Sub-project execution describing how it intends
to generate funds internally from its own operations sufficient to meet the 
obligations described in paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. For purposes of 
this subparagraph, (a) "total  working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, but excluding interest and other charges on debt, (b) "total operating 
revenues" means revenues from all sources related to operations, and (c) "debt service 
requirements" means the aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking fund 
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges on, all the Sub-borrower's debt 
(including debt incurred by providing guarantees).
3.
Failure of a prospective Sub-borrower to meet the criteria described in 
paragraphs 2 (c) and 2 (d) of this Schedule shall not prevent the Sub-borrower from 
qualifying for a Sub-loan: (i) for purposes of Part B of the Project, and up to an 
aggregate amount of Sub-loans not to exceed twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), in 
which case the Sub-loan shall be for an amount not exceeding ten dollars ($10) 
equivalent per inhabitant served by the Sub-borrower, and such Sub-loans shall amount 
to no more than one million dollars ($1,000,000) per Sub-borrower; or (ii) for 
purposes of the technical assistance to be provided under Part A of the Project for 
the reorganization and improvement of the operational, commercial and financial 
performance of the Sub-borrower.
4.
The Credit Regulations shall specify the amortization and grace periods, 
variable interest rates, and commitment and other charges applicable to Sub-loans as 
described in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. These periods, rates, and 
charges shall be set, and revised as required, so as to allow COFAPYS to progress 
towards a condition of financial self-sufficiency whereby it will be able to operate 
with minimum or no support from the budget of the Borrower.
5.
The Credit Regulations shall describe COFAPYS' operational and administrative 
procedures with regard to Sub-loans. These procedures shall, inter alia, ensure that:
(a)
Sub-borrowers in arrears for one hundred days or more to COFAPYS on 
Sub-loans shall not be eligible for new Sub-loans and shall have their right to 
disbursements under already approved Sub-loans suspended;
(b)
Sub-loan amortization periods shall not be extended;
 
(c)
failure by a Province to meet its guarantee obligations referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) (iii) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement shall result in: (i) the 
ineligibility of any Sub-borrower that requires the guarantee of such Province for new 
Sub-loans, for a period of not less than three months after such Province becomes 
current with its obligations as guarantor, and provided that such Province meets the 
criteria of eligibility set forth in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, and (ii) the 
retention of federal revenue sharing funds (i.e., Coparticipacion Federal de Recursos 
Fiscales funds under Law No. 23548 of the Borrower, dated January 7, 1988, promulgated 
by Decree No. 94, dated January 22, 1988, and published in the Boletin Oficial of the 
Borrower on January 26, 1988, or any amendment to such law, or any substitute for such 
law) to the Province in an amount equal to the amount not recovered because of such 
failure to meet the guarantee; and
(d)
Sub-borrowers seeking a second or more Sub-loans must be in compliance 
with the obligations contained in their prior Sub-loan Agreements, and the annual 
financial performance level obligations (see paragraph 5 (d) of Schedule 2 of this 
Page  12
Agreement) contained in such second or subsequent Sub-loan Agreements must be equal 
to, or more stringent than, those in the immediately prior Sub-loan Agreement.
6.
The Credit Regulations shall specify that Sub-loans made for purposes of Parts B 
or C of the Project shall also finance institutional strengthening of Sub-borrowers 
under Part A of the Project.
7.
The Credit Regulations shall specify the mechanisms for COFAPYS to cover the 
currency risk of Sub-borrowers, as stipulated in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement.
