Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repurt No. 10725
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2247-PAK)
JUNE 15, 1992
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
US$1                      = £O.606
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BCM         - Billion Cubic Meters
ha          - Hectare
km          - Kilometer
KW          - Kilowatt
M           - Million
B           - Billion
MCM         - Million Cubic Meters
MW          - Mega Watt
CRR         - Chief Resident RepresentAtive
ECNEC       - Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
GOP         - Government of Pakistan
IBDF        - Indus Basin Development Fund
IRC         - Indus River Contractors
LC          - Letter of Credit
O&M         - Operation and Maintenance
ODA         - (British) Overseas Development Administration
NOC         - No Objection Certificate
OED         - Operations Evaluation Department
PC-i        - Project Concept - 1
SAR         - Staff Appraisal Report
PCR         - Project Completion Report
USAID       - U.S. Agency for International Development
TDF         - Tarbela Development Fund
WAPDA       - Water and Power Developmnent Authority
FISCAL YEAR
JULY 1-JUNE 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
T: 1E WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Since of Director.Genwal
Opeation  Evaluation
June 15, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Pakistan
Reservoir Maintenance Facilities Project
(Loan 2247-PAK)
Attached. for your information, iB a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Reservoir
Maintenance Facilities Project (Loan 2247-PAX)", prepared by the
South Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
|of their of ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2247-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                   iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.                                         1
Project Identity ............            ..... ,.............    1
Background .......................  o  ... 1
Project Objectives and Descriptions  ...........................               2
Project Design and Organization .................................   3
Project Implementation .4...... . ....................            .... 4
Project Results .7......                  .      .....................   7
Project Sustainability ................ ....                     .    ......9
Bank Performance .........                            .*00.#..  $.10
Borrawer Performance .......................            .       .12
Project Relationship         .................              . .      ....     13
Consulting Services                ...................        ..14
Project Documentation and Data ..................................  15
PART It  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                  15
Project Design ce. ..           .         .............          ..           15
Project I mplementation                        ..  .too.....              e   16
Project Results ..  o*o.....to...19
Projeoct Sustainability ...*..  *o*o*9o  .. ......19
Bank Performance .......                         ............20
Borrower Performance .............*...20
Project Relationship .          ........ .*. ...  ..........21
PART III  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                            21
PART IV  STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                     24
Project Timetable ........................Z                                     4
Loan Disbursements                     ........................          ...  25
Project Implementation  ........................................   27
Project Costs and Financing                         ...................   28
Status of Covenants          .....      .................. ...... ........  29
Use of Bank Resources               ......... . . ..*. ... ...  30
MAP IBRD 16630R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2247-PAK)
PREFACE
1.    This Project Completion Report: (PCR) reviews performance under the
Reservoir Maintenance Facilities project for which a Bank Loan of US$10.2
million was made in December 1983. The project was co-financed by UK Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) grant of UKR8.5 million, which was later
increased to UKE8.9 million during the project implementation. The loan
closing date was extended twice by one year to ,une 30, 1991.  To accommodate
final disbursements, the loan accounts were kept open for about five months
beyond the closing date. The last disbursement was made on December 3, 1991
and the undisbursed balance of $211,092 (2Z of the loan amount) was cancelled
as of that date. The UK ODA grant part of the project 49 still on-going and
is expected to take about two more years for the grant to be fully disbursed.
2.    The PCR was prepared by a Bank Consultant (familiar with dams safety
aspects) for the Agriculture Operations Division incorporating Chapter II of
the PCR prepared by the Borrower. The preface, the evaluation summary, and
Tables 2a, 2b, 3 and 4 (part IV) were preparsd by Bank staff. The Bauik staff
also made several modifications and editorial clhanges to enhance the clarity
and improve the sequence of the report.
3.    A copy of the draft PCR was sent to the Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division and the ODA during early January 1992 for information and
comments. Their comments are duly incorporated in the PCR.



-iii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2247-PAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.    The basic objectives of the project were to improve and strengthen the
capability of WAPDA to safely operate, maintain and monitor the Tarbela,
Mangla and Chasma dams projects and related faciltties efficiently, by
providing the needed buildings (workshops and warehouses), the Operation and
Maintenance (O&M) and dam safety equipment, monitoring instrumentation, and
technical assistance for carrying out dam safety inspections and overseas
training of WAPDA personnel in O&M of dams and dam safety monitoring.
Prolect Costs
2.    The total project cost was $42.2M (18.OM in local currency and 24.2M in
foreign exchange) including $15.6M equivalent in taxes and duties. The Bank
loan of $10.2M together with UK (ODA) grant of £8.5M (about $14M equivalent)
provided the foreign exchange costs. The UK grant part of the project is
still on-going and WAPDA hcs estimated that it will take about two more years
for the grant to be fully disbursed. The project costs at closure of the UK
grant are estimated at about $35M instead of $42.2M due to reduction in the
local costs of buildings and the taxes and duties.
Imiplementation Experience
3.    Important differences between the planned and actual implementation were
the delayed project start, slow procurement and the two extensions of the Loan
Closing date. Firstly the loan effective date slipped by four months due to
delay in approval of the project's PC-1 by the GOP Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECIEC). Secondly, finding a replacement for the
Chief Engineer O&M of Tarbela caused delays in initiation of the project
activities, specially of procurement. Other main causes of procurement delays
were the delayed preparation and approval of technical specifications and bid
documents, evaluation of bids, processing of letters of credits, (LC)
involving rather cumbersome procedures, and delayed No Objection certificates
(NOC) issued by GOP.
4.    Due to serious efforts by the project organization and the Bank missions
and the experience gained by WAPDA, procurement accelerated in 1987 and even
more so thereafter. However, because of prolonged delays at the beginning



-iv-
coupled with the procurement of the needed additional equipment for dam safety
as identified by the dam safety inspections and approved in 1989, WAPDA could
not catch up with the planned schedule and the loan closing date had to be
extended to June 30, 1991.
5.    Most of the buildings (comprising new workshops and warehouses) were not
built because WAPDA could buy existing buildings from Indus River Contractors
(IRC) at nominal prices. The rehabilitation of existing buildings and
construction of new parking sheds for equipment and vehicles were
satisfactorily completed with some delays which did not effect project
results. The dam safety inspections and training of WAPDA personnel in dam
saf.ty monitoring were assessed by GOP/WAPDA to be highly successful and
greatly contributing to dam safety.
Results and Sustainability
6.    While the project as financed by Bank has been successful in meeting its
objectives of strengthening WAPDA's capability to present level of
preparedness for O&M of dams, dam safety monitoring and for undertaking
remedial measures as necessary, the continued success/impact of the project
will depend on WAPDA's prompt actions in meeting the deficiencies created from
time to time in staff and the O&M budget, and in retaining the required
trained personnel. The Tarbela dam inspections provided under the project,
resulted in very valuable recommendations for the repairs and remedial
measures which increased the safety of the dam and provided for efficient dam
safety monitoring. It is essential that GOP/WAPDA continue the annual and
periodic dam safety inspections and place only qualified and experienced
engineers and technicians for the O&M and safety monitoring of the dams.
Lessons Learned and Recomanendation
7.    Lessons from project implementation which are relevant to other similar
Bank-financed projects, in particular, those involving large procurement
activities, are that: (i) the Government should present the No Objection
Certificates (NOC) of the equipment, at Negotiations, (ii) the project's
authority should appoint a special procurement officer from the start of
project implementation, and (iii) there should be an understanding between the
Bank and parallel Cofinanciers regarding the exchange of information.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2247-PAK)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:        Reservoir Maintenance Facilities Project
Loan No:             2247-PAK
RVP Unit:             EMTAG
Country:             Pakistan
Sector:              Agriculture
Subsector:           Irrigation
2. BACKGROUND
2.1  The Indus Irrigation System is the largest contiguous irrigation system
in the world, comprising three major storage reservoirs, 19 barrages &nd
headworks, 12 large link canals, 43 canal commands and about 90,000 water
courses. The total length of the canal system is about 60,000 km. with water
courses, farm channel and field ditches running another 1.6 Mkm. An extensive
drainage network of about 15,000 km. has also been constructed into the system
command area. The system serves about 12 M ha or 60% of the total cultivated
area of Pakistan and accounts for approximately 90% of its agricultural
production.
2.2   The Pakistan Indus Irrigation System as is today has been affected by
and is the outcome of the partition of the Indian Subcontinent in 1947. At
the time of partition, the Indus System supported about 50 M people (about 40
M people in Pakistan and 10 M in India). Through the 1960 Indus Water Treaty
which allocated the water of the three eastern rivers of Punjab (Ravi, Beas
and Sutlej) to India and those of the three western rivers (Indus, Jhelum and
Chenab) to Pakistan, the replacement works to transfer water from the western
rivers to replace the water of the eastern rivers allocated to India
consisting of Mangla Dam on the Jhelum river, eight link canals and six
barrages, including Chasma, were built with the Indus Basin Development Fund
(IBDF), supported by international donors. The replacement works were
completed by the Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) on
behalf of t'e Government of Pakistan (GOP) in 1971 on schedule.



-2-
2.3   Following the pattern of the IBDF, the Tarbela Development Fund (TDF)
was established in 1968 with foreign exchange contributions from several
industrialized countries and a Bank Loan, to construct the Tarbela Dam on the
Indus for supplementing the Indus dry season flows for irrigation and for
generating hydro-electric power. The Tarbela is the largest earth filled dam
in the world (with the volume of earth fill three times larger than the Aswan
High Dam of Egypt), with several of its complex features designed to withstand
very large discharges and high velocity of flows never before experienced in
any other dams.  As a consequence, during its first reservoir filling in the
summer of 1974, damages occurred to the power and irrigation tunnels, stilling
basins, service spillway plunge pool and flip bucket structures, and sink
holes were discovered in the impervious blanket and the upstream face of the
dam. Extensive repair and remedial work was immediately launched by WAPDA
with funding from TDF (administered by the Bank) and has been pursued
continuously until today. Two supplemental fundings to the TDF were raised
for this purpose. The TDF has recently been closed at the end of December
1991.
2.4   Reservoirs created by the Tarbela, Mangla and Chasma are the principal
water storage facilities of Pakistan. They are verj important structures,
critical for the economic well-being of Pakistan. They are expensive
structures but their benefits in terms of raising agricultural production and
generating electricity and flood control are also immense. The Tarbela Dam,
costing over $2 B in 1973, has a live storage of 11.4 BCM, and an initial
installed 'tapacity of 1.4 MKW (presently 1.75 MKW); V,:-la Dam, costing $687 H
in 1967, has a live storage of 6.59 BCM and an installcd capacity of 800,000
KW, and although Chasma Barrage, (Barrage is sometimes called Diversion Dam;
for simplicity Chasma Barrage will be afterwards called Chasma Dam), costing
$119 M in 1971, has the smallest reservoir capacity among the three, only 620
MCM, and produces no electricity, but because it re-regulates the flows
downstream of Tarbela, it provides storage releases several times larger than
its reservoir capacity. Without any doubt, these dams deserve the best care in
their operation and maintenance (O & M) for ensuring their safety and
dependable performance. Any major damages leading to failure of any of them
would be catastrophic, involving the loss of a large number of human lives and
costly properties. The GOP and the Bank thus attached great importance to dam
safety on these projects which was also very much in line with emphasis given
on dam safety by the US Congress legislation (PL92-367) of August 1972, by the
International Congress on Large Dams (ICOLD) for dam projects around the world
since 1976 and Bank Guidelines for Safety of Dams (1977).
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTIONS
3.1 The project was to finance a five-year (FY84 to FY88) program to
strengthen WAPDA's capability to safely operate and maintain the Chasma,
Mangla and Tarbela dams and related facilities. The project would:
(a)   provide the required buildings ( through construction of needed
new workshops and warehouses, equipment and vehicle parking sheds
and a training center and renovation of existing workshops, and
warehouses);



-3-
(b) piovide additional 0 & M eqaipment and replace worn-out and
obsolete items at Mangla and Chasma and provide equipment,
vehicles, tools, spare parts and supplies required at Tarbela, to
ensure dependable 0 & M and safety of the three facilities;
(c)  provide technical assistance in training in Pakistan of middle
managers, supervisors, and engineers in stores and procurement
organization and manegement, workshop organization, and
maintenance and records management;
(d)  provide overseas training, and study tours for WAPDA engineers and
technicians; and
(e)  provide technical assistance in carrying out dam safety
inspections of the Tarbela Dam and facilities.
3.2   The total project cost estimate was $42.2M (18.OM in local curr3ncy and
24.2 M in foreign exchange) including $15.6M equivalent in taxes and duties
and the BanK front and fee of $159,739. The Bank loan of $10.2M together with
the UK grantl of £8.5M (about $14M equivalent) would cover the foreign
e.change costs of the project (the UK grant was later increased to £8.9M
during project implementation).
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1   During the repair and remedial activities of the Tarbela, WAPDA and the
Bank were already thinking of how the dam should best be operated and
maintained. In early 1981 WAPDA explored the possibility of Bank involvement
in 0 & M of Tarbela. Following the discussions with Bank supervision missions
of Tarbela, WAPDA began preparation of the list of equipment, spare parts,
monitoring instruments, workshop and warehouse needs, technical assistance and
other requirements specifically for Tarbela. During the Bank appraisal
mission in May-June 1982, the project concept and design was expanded to
include the needs of the Mangla and Chasma Dams. The Bank was closely
involved in the overall concept and project preparation from the beginning.
The project was not intended to break new ground. Its basic objectives were
to strengthen WAPDA 0 & M capabilities and its existing organizations for
providing safety to the three dams.
4.2   The O & M of Chasma, Mangla and Tarbela are the responsibility of
WAPDA.  F:7;. Chasma and Mangla, regular 0 & M programs have been underway for a
number of years and the transition from construction to 0 & M has been
generally smooth. In addition to routine inspection and maintenance by the
projects 0 & H staff, periodic dam safety inspections have been made at Chasma
and Mangla by WAPDA's Dam Safety Organization (later the name was changed
1/    UK grant is handled by the British Overseas Development Administration
(ODA).
The UK and ODA are used interchangeably in the PCR.



-4-
to Dam Monitoring and Safety Organization). Performance of both the Mangla
and Chasma Dams has been relatively trouble free except for the need to repair
a portion of th- Chasma floor in 1982.
4.3   At the time of the project preparation, repair and remedial
works for the Tarbela Dam were on-going but it was expected that these works
would gradually be finished and phased out while v & M activities would be
increasing. The timing of the project has proven to be correct; the
completion of repair work at Tarbela should coincide with completion of this
project, making WA:'DA fully equipped to take on full 0 & M responsibility.
4.4   Satisfactory 0 & M necessitates:  (a) good organization with strong
management and trained personnel; (b) readily available necessary equipment
(including monitoring instrumentaoion), tools, spare parts, materials and
supplies; (c) adequate funds, including Foreign exchange, available as needed;
(d) technical support, including manuals and drawings of project facilities as
well as assistance of technical specialists when needed; and (e) supplemental
construction support available on contractual basis for large periodic or
emergency maintenances. The project strove to strengthen and support WAPDA in
(a) and (b). As regards (c), WAPDA has often not been able to obtain adequate
funds for satisfactory 0 & M, hence the Loan Agreement for the project
(Section 3.01.) required GOP assurance in providing adequate funds. This
matter is further discussed in para. 7.1. With regard to (d), the 0 & M
manuals, and detailed drawings are available at all the three dam sites.
Pakistan also has dam specialists specifically involved in the design and
construction of all the three dams. The project also provided specialized
training (locally and overseas), in O&M and dam safety monitoring for a
sizeable number of WAPDA. engineers. As regards item (e), Pakistan does not
have contractors with large equipment commensurate with work on large dams
like Tarbela and Mangla. For this reason, the project provided WAPDA with a
large number of pieces of appropriate equipment to enable it to carry out
periodic and emergency maintenance by force account.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1   The critical differences between planned and actual project
implementation were its delayad start, slow procurement and two-year extension
of the closing date. Firstly, the loan effective date slipped by four months
from July 12, to November 15, 1983 due to the delay in approval of the
project's PC-1 by the GOP Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
(ECNEC). Secondly, the replacement of Chief Engineer 0 & H of Tarbela caused
di iys in initiation of the project activities, especially of procurement, and
thirdly, the 1984/85 foreign currency allocation by GOP for project
expenditures was inadequate ($1.1 M as against $3.5M equivalent requested by
WAPDA). Most of the allocation ($1.05M) was used to import equipment financed
under UK grant; its procurement was managed by the Crown Agent from UK and
started off well. Other main causes of procurement delays were the
preparation and approval of specifications and bid documents, the evaluation
of bids and the opening of letter of credit (LC) which involved several time
consuming seeps and cumbersome procedures. By mid 1986 the delays had caused
the project to slip behind the planned schedule by about 18 months. Loan



disbursement was only $249,000 at the end of March 1986 as compared with the
appraisal estimate of $ 6.4M.
5.2   In April 1986, the Bank included a procurement engineer and a dams
specialist in the supervision mission, and in subsequent missions the Bank
began to take detailed scrutiny of the procurement process and pinpointing
problems on what went wrong and how they should be corrected. It is worth
mentioning a few important points observed by Bank supervision missions and
which WAPDA was asked to remedy, as they were probably problems common to most
Bank projects in Pakistan:
(a)   delays in evaluation of bids;
(b)   delays in issuing import licenses, letters of credit, and No
Objection Certificates;
(c)   non-receipt of suppliers acceptance letters; and
(d)   delays by suppliers in providing performance bonds.
Besides asking WAPDA to t':y to resolve the problems in (a) and (b), the
mission recommended that WAPDA telex suppliers to send acceptance letters and
performance bonds within 14 days and 30 days respectively or risk cancellation
of their orders, and in future WAPDA should incorporate specific stipulations
in the bidding documents requiring the letter of acceptance and performance
bond to be submitted promptly on receipt of supply order, but not later than
30 days thereafter. As regards the No Objection Certificate (NOC) issued by
GOP for all equipment and supplies to be imported it is recommended here that
GOP should consider issuing certificates on the list of equipment submitted by
the project authority after the approval of PC-I instead of on an item-by-item
basis which is time consuming causing much delay. Also, the Bank should
consider having the Government present the NOC of the identified and listed
equipment, during the Negotiations.
5.3   Due to experience gained by WAPDA project staff and serious efforts by
the project organization and the Bank missions, procurement accelerated in
1987 and even more so thereafter. However, because of prolonged delays at the
beginning coupled with the procurement of the needed additional equipment for
dam safety as identified by the dam inspections (para 5.6) and approved in
1989, it was not possible for WAPDA to catch up with the planned schedule and
the loan closing date was extended twice for one year each, to June 30, 1991.
5.4   Except for initial delays it. submission of the annual 0 & M programs
and related proposed budget (ref: Section 2.07 of Project Agreement), and
progress and audit reports (Section 2.04 (b) and 4.01 (b) of Project
Agreement), from 1986 onward these were received in a timely manner. WAPDA's
performance in this connection was above average for projects in Pakistan.
5.5   With regards to the buildings, in 1985 WAPDA was able to negotiate the
purchase of the required workshop buildings and warehouses at reasonable
prices (about Rs4.5M) from the Indus River Contractors (IRC), thus eliminating
the need for the construction of these new buildings included in the project



-6-
at appraisal, indeed a good move. The Bank agreed to finance 35% of their
local costs, same as stipulated in the Loan Agreemcnt. The renovation of old
workshop and warehouse buildings and the construction of parking sheds for
vehicles and cquipment were completed by local contractors in early 1989,
about three years behind the appraisal estimate. The training center was
finally not built but was setup in the old office building which IRC handed
over to WAPDA. The overall costs of the buildings category were much reduced.
At the end, only $ 108,660 was disbursed against $750,000 earmarked in the
loan. The remaining amount was utilized for the procurement of the needed
additional equipment as identified by the Dam Safety inspections.
5.6   As regards technical assistance and the dam safety inspections, in June
1986 WAPDA signed an agreement with TAMS Consultants Inc. providing for
specialists for the inspections of the Tarbela Dam. TAMS being the design and
supervising consultants for the Tarbela was obviously the appropriate choice
for the purpose. The first inspection was carried out during the high
reservoir level in August/September 1986; the second inspection in June 1987
during low reservoir level. Both inspections identified some areas which
needed additional repairs and strengthening, in particular the left rock
abutment, downstream floor and apron and rock channel of the Dal Derra Weir,
service spillway gates, intake structures of tunnels 1 and 2, and outlet
contrel structures of tunnel 4 of Tarbela Dam. Additional equipment,
including seismic monitoring devices, dam instrumentation, testing/sampling
and survey equipment and other equipment necessary for dam safety measures,
was identified during inspections for procurement. Later, Bank approved their
procurement under the project within the loan amount ($10.2M), while the
repair and strengthening works were taken up under the TDF.
5.7 Also in August 1987, WAPDA engaged HARZA Engineers Inc. to provide
servicas in placing its engineers and professionals for training in O&M and
dam safety monitoring with appropriate overseas organizations and in trainee
administrution. The first batch of 13 trainees was sent to the US in October
1987 to be trained in the various specialized subjects related to 0 & M and
safety of dams, such as drilling and grouting, sonar/echo sounding, heavy
equipment and vehicle maintenance and repair, workshop organization and
management, and four senior engineers were sent on study tours in the U.S. to
observe and learn the overall spectrum of 0 & M of dams. Later WAPDA sent two
more professionals for training in resettlement/environmental subjects and two
engineers for specific training in seismology, instrumentation and seismic
monitoring at Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory of Columbia University.
In all, 21 professionals have been trained.
5.8 The overseas training was originally planned at appraisal for 30
engineers and nine technicians for a total of 116 man-months, at the cost of
about $700,000 including contingencies, or about $6,000 per man-month (mm)
inclusive of travel to and from overseas. However, WAPDA proposed in 1986 to
considerably reduce the training under the project as some training was being
undertaken with USAID assistance. Finally as aforementioned only 21 engineers
were sent for training abroad under the project. GOP has an established
policy to utilize loan and credit for technical assistance only in the event
t,lat grants are not available.



-7-
5.9   The overseas training cost was apparently greatly underestimated.  The
actual cost of training 21 engineers for 32.3 mm came up to about $406,000 or
$12,570 per mm or about twice the estimate. The breakdown of actual cost per
man-month was: per diem $3,150/mm; tuition and training fee $6,300/mm;
consultant services (HARZA) $ 1,800/mm, out of pocket expenses (medical
insurance, local travel, etc.) $ 220/mm; and travel to and from destinations
about $1,100/mm. The breakdown costs of each item did not seem out of line
except for the tuition and training fee for specialized training. The U.S.
Bureau of Reclamation's charges at $2,000 to $2,300 /mm were the lowest.
Firms specialized in specific subject such as Raytheon Ocean System of Rhode
Island (for echo sounding training) charged $10,740/mm and Aerial Mapping
Corp (for aerial survey training) charged $20,000/mm. The charges though
appear excessive could possibly be justified due to training being one on one
basis and usage of some specialized equipment such as sea-going boats or
airplanes. In the end, however, there was still some money (about $394,000)
left under training category because the number of trainees for each subject
was reduced and only engineers and not technicians were sent for overseas
training. However, the number of subjects trained was not reduced.
5.10 With regard to the technical assistance for providing specialtsts to
train WAPDA staff at the Tarbela 0 & M organization and in the WAPDA Training
Academy in subjects such as procurement and store organization and management,
workshop organization, and deep diving inspection, as well as for .:raining
mechanical engineers in UK on workshop maintenance and management, WAPDA
requested ODA to assist in providing these specialists in June 1988. ODA is
still considering the request. In the mean time WAPDA utilized facilities in
the country to train its mechanics at Tarbela workshop and surveyors at the
Survey of Pakistan.
6. PROJECT RESULTS
6.1   The project was relatively simple as compared with several other
projects in Pakistan. It was the first project related to 0 & M and dam
safety in Pakistan. At times it necessitated complicated evaluations of dam
safety and assessment and identification of dam safety equipment and
monitoring instrumentation. It consisted of three main categories --
buildings, equipment (including spare parts and vehicles and monitoring
instrumentation) and technical assistance, including training.
6.2   Buildings  As mentioned earlier, new workshops and warehouses were not
built because WAPDA could buy existing buildings from Indus River Contractors
(IRC) at reasonable prices. Bank agreed to disburse 35% of the purchase
price, same percentage as for new buildings and rehabilitation. The
rehabilitation of existing buildings and the construction of new parking sheds
for equipment and vehicles were satisfactorily completed with some delays
which did not affect project results. All buildings were put into use right
after their completion. In the end only $108,660 was spent out of $750,000
provided in the loan. The remairing fund was used for providing additional
equipment, dam instrumentation for seismic monitoring, survey and sampling
equipment, and other necessary equipment for dam safety, recommended by dam
inspections (para 5.6).



-8-
6.3   Eguipment  There were some changes under this category:
(a)   in June 1985, GOP/WAPDA asked to expand the project to embrace
assistance for the strengthening of 0 & M capability at Hub Dam
and Khanpur Dam including provision of equipment; after several
discussions ODA agreed to include this in its grant;
(b)   due to GOP restrictions (passed in 1986) on the import of vehicles
using loan proceeds, vehicles (about $1.6M) originally planned to
be procured using the Bank loan had to be taken off the
procurement list and WAPDA requested ODA to provide them instead
under UK (ODA) grant which was agreed; and
(c)   in late 1986, it was discovered that the proposed spare parts for
gates and hoists ($128,000) which were originally destined to be
procured under UK grant was a mistake, as gates and hoists were
not UK made and the grant was tied to procurement of only UK
manufactured goods; these items were then transferred to the Bank
loan; also some equipment (milling machine, barge conveyor,
communication system etc) amounting to $480,000 equivalent were
dropped from ODA original list;
(d)   the dam safety inspection teams (para 5.6) identified and
recommended additional equipment for dam safety including dam
instrumentation, survey and sampling equipment, seismic monitoring
devices, and the same were included and procured under the Bank
loan.
6.4    With all these changes, in the end, the actual amount spent for
equipment was increased from $8M to $8.9M for Bank loan and from £8.4M ($13.8M
equivalent) to £8.9M ($14.7M equivalent) for UK grant. The Bank loan remained
constant at $10.2M; the increased costs for additional equipment were taken
from the unused amounts of the building and technical assistance categories.
UK grant increased by £0.4M from £8.5M to £8.9M ($14.7M equivalent). These
changes were necessary and they made for a better project and effective use of
the loan.
6.5   Technical Assistance and Training   Bank loan provided for employing
international consultants (TAMS) for two Tarbela inspections and HARZA for
providing services in placing and administering trainees for overseas
training. The Tarbela inspections resulted in very valuable recommendations
for the repairs and remedial measures which strengthened and increased the
safety of the dam as well as for providing additional equipment and
instrumentation needed for dam safety. The training was assessed by GOP/WAPDA
to be highly successful and greatly contributing to dam safety. All the
subject matters planned were covered, only the number of trainees for overseas
training was reduced.
6.6   At the closing date the money used for technical assistance under the
Bank loan totaled $660,000 while the training spent about $410,000, as
compared with the estimates at appraisal of $500,000 and $800,000
respec-ively. The technical assistance for dam inspections exceeded the



-9-
estimate while the training aspect spent less. The remaining money (about
$230,000) was used for procurement of additional equipment for the project
(para 6.4). The technical assistance and overseas training under the Bank
loan were highly successful, and met the objectives set out at the appraisal.
As mentioned in para 5.10, however, the technical assistance and training
under UK grant has not started. WAPDA has utilized dvailable facilities in
the country to train its engineers and technicians in the meantime.
6.7   Overall  The project costs are estimated to be reduced from $42.2M to
about $35M. The main reductions are in the local costs of buildings
equipment, vehicles and spare parts - (see PART IV Table 4). The latter
comprised duties and taxes, port handling, local transport to project sites
and administration etc. A part of the reduction was attributed to the
lowering of duties and taxes on imported equipment during the period of
project implementation, while the other was due to the over estimation at the
time of appraisal. The Bank loan remained the same ($10.2M) with small sum
(about $211,000) left unused when the loan account closed. The UK grant has
been increased from £8.9M ($14.7M equiv) and todate about £5.OM (about $8.25M
equiv.) has been disbursed.
6.8   The project was designed at appraisal to consist heavily of equipment
procurement at 91X of the project costs, of building new workshops and
warehouses and rehabilitation of old ones at 5X and, of technical assistance
and training at 4Z. In the end when the project would be fully completed (UK
grant part of the project is still on-going and may not close before another
two years), because of the procurement of additional equipment, the equipment
category would be increased to approximately 95X, while the shares of the
buildings and technical assistance and training would be reduced to about 1X
and 4X of the project costs respectively. Although the overall project has
yet to be completed because of the uncompleted items under the ODA grant, the
majority of equipment, vehicles and spare parts are currently available at the
three dams, the key personnel have been trained abroad, the workshops,
warehouses, sheds for equipment and vehicles were completed and ready when the
repair work at Tarbela was phasing out and the 0 & M was phasing in. The
timing of the project was right. Since the project is not fully completed, it
is estimated that currently about 85X of the project objectives has been met.
7. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1 There is no reason why the project results could not be sustained--the
necessary equipment, vehicles, and spare parts are there at the sites, the 0 &
M staff in adequate numbers are available and key staff are trained, and GOP
has promised adequate funding for 0 & M. However, the risks are high and are
all pointing to the problems in adequate funding and personnel. In the past
the Government was often short of funds. Budgets approved early in the year
were not always provided. Equipment has life. After 8-10 years, some
equipment and instrumentation will lose its useful life and will need to be
renewed, requiring repeated capital investment. Also in Pakistan, personnel
are rotated too fast. No one knows how many of the 21 engineers trained under
the project will still be performing 0 & M task at the three dams after a few
years. It would be wishful thinking if one-half the number of trained key



-10-
staff would still be working at tl.se dams five years from now.  Furthermore,
for nearly four decades, WAPDA has been training a very large number of its
engineers, technicians, and other professionals, but only a small number is
now remaining with WAPDA. A substantial number must have retired but probably
an even larger percentage had left for the private sector and for working
abroad. WAPDA will have to continue training its staff relentlessly.
7.2   The problems above are real and need to be tackled because of the
importance of these projects to Pakistan. Although one is not expected to
resolve all, the following recommendations should be worth considering:
(a)  GOP should allow WAPDA to keep a percentage of its annual revenue
from the sale of electric energy at Tarbela and Mangla, for
satisfactory 0 & M, dam safety, and equipment renewal including
permanent equipment (e.g. gate and hoist, turbine, generator,
switch yard equipment). The amount considered satisfactory for 0
& M would be about 1% of the current costs of dam and appurtenant
structures.
(b)   GOP/WAPDA should slow down in-staff rotations particularly the
trained staff. An understudy should be placed/attached
overlapping at least six months with the trained staff who is
destined to be transferred. Also WAPDA will have to cortinue
training its staff to replace loss in personnel.
(c)  Even after the loan is closed, Bank should still require that
WAPDA send its annual 0 & M program together with the proposed
expenditures for 0 & M of the Tarbela, Mangla and Chasma during
the subsequent fiscal year to the Bank (Section 2.07 of Project
Agreement). This should continue for many years until Bank is
confident that adequate funding will be provided in the future.
7.3   The Bank is known all over the world as the Administrator of the IBDF
and the TDF. It can not avoid sharing the blame, if any of these dams fails
or is seriously damaged. Bank should send at least an experienced engineer to
participate in the annual inspection and periodic inspection (every five years
with international specialists involved) conducted by WAPDA Dam Safety and
Monitoring Organization. This will be a small but invaluable investment to the
Bank.
7.4   Like most developing countries, in Pakistan generally the best
engineers are not placed in 0 & M activities but in construction where there
seems to be more glory. However, the three dams are the largest and the most
important structures in Pakistan. WAPDA should be urged to place its best
qualified and experienced engineers for their 0 & M and safety.
8. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1   Bank paid a great deal of attention and attached much importance to the
project from its inception and preparation and through out the implementation.
It spent 21 staff weeks for identification, preparation and pre-appraisal and



-11-
about 53 staff weeks on appraisal until completion of negotiations.
Altogether, there were 16 supervision missions during p:oject implementation.
Because of the type of the project (O and M, and dam safety) all missions
except one consisted of only one Bank staff member--engineer or dam
specialist. In all 220 man days were spent in the field, averaging 14 man-
days per mission. Intervals between mission averaged about six months, which
was good.
8.2   Bank invited ODA representatives to join every supervision mission and
to participate in wrap-up meetings which ODA did, and several resolutions and
decisions concerning UK grant were resolved at the meetings to the
satisfaction of all concerned. Through these missions and meetings ODA was
kept abreast of the project implementation portion of the Bank loan, and the
Bank also obtained some limited information on the portion of UK grant.
Although UK is the cofinancier, the financing is on a parallel and not on
jointly basis. It is understood that ODA did not undertake supervision
missions in the same way as the Bank -- leaving mission Aide Memoires of
understanding between mission, WAPDA and GOP/Ministry of Water and Power each
time, for follow up action by WAPDA. ODA had a full time representative in
Pakistan who looked after all ODA's projects on a continuous basis. Due to
the nature of parallel financing, there was no agreement nor understanding on
the exchange of information on a regular basis. During supervision missions,
Bank learned of some information concerning UK grant portion in so far as it
concerned or interrelated with the Bank's portion and some from the progress
reports. For these reasons, this PCR covered in less detail the ODA part of
the project (also the UK grant is still on-going). Currently Bank has no
guidelines on how to deal with projects with parallel financing with respect
to the exchange of information. More thinking will have to be done on how the
exchange of information should be carried out in harmony with the parallel
cofinanciers. Increasingly parallel cofinancing is to be expected.
8.3   Bank did a good job at every stage of the project from the inception,
preparation, appraisal, and throughout the implementation until completion.
The preparation was carried out mainly by WAPDA with the Bank missions
reviewing it. During implementation/supervision a great deal of attention was
placed on procurement of equipment and spare parts which represented over 90%
of the proiect costs. Several administrative problems affecting delays such
as the issuing of No Objection Certificates, import licenses, LC, transport
clearance, receipt of suppliers' acceptance letter, and performance bonds were
identified by supervision missions and WAPDA was urged to resolve them
diligently. Also following the missions' suggestions, WAPDA, in late 1988,
appointed a Special Procurement Officer to expedite procurement processing and
delivery. This was a good move and in retrospect should have been undertaken
from the beginning of the project. It should be a good lesson for other
projects which involve large procurement works to follow. Attention was also
paid to technical assistance and training with the end result that its
implementation was smooth and successfully completed. In sum, Bank
performance was technically competent, thorough and highly satisfactory (see
also para II.5.1).



-12-
9. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.1   WAPDA was the project implementer.  All the three dams had been
constructed under the jurisdiction of WAPDA. Mangla was completed in 1967,
and Chasma in 1971. Hence, WAPDA has gained experience in the 0 & M of Mangla
and Chasma for over two decades. The repair and remedial works of Tarbela Dam
have now been completed under the TDF which has recently been closed at the
end of December 1991. While the Tarbela was undergoing repairs, the 0 & M of
its unaffected and undamaged features were proceeding as usual by WAPDA.
Therefore, WAPDA was well conversant with the 0 & M of Tarbela as well &ad
knew exactly what was needed in terms of equipment, vehicles, spare parts,
technical assistance and training. The project preparation thus became
relatively easy for WAPDA as well as fox the Bank which were heavily involved
with these dams for a long time. During appraisal the Bank mission received
excellent cooperations and assistance from WAPDA and the Bank's consultants
for Tarbela (Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners).
9.2   In the first two and a half years of the project (1984 until mid 1986)
the project implementation suffered serious delays due to:
(a)   four month slippage in loan effectiveness because of late
approval of project PC-I;
(b)   shortage of funds in 1984/85 budget;
(c)  change of the Chief Engineer 0 & M of Tarbela; and
(d)   staff lacked experience in the preparation of tender documents and
procurement processing, especially for ICB.
9.3   After the initial weak period, the implementation started to improve
quickly and should have been able to regain substantially the lost time had
it not been because additional equipment and instrumentation for dam safety as
identified by the dam inspections (Aug./Sept. 86 and June 87) had to be
procured. After serious scrutiny of the identified additional equipment and
instrumentation, Bank approved the list of this equipment and agreed to
meeting its costs during late 1988, without increasing the total loan amount.
GOP approved and issued the No Objection Certificates for it in February 1990
over a year later. The fact of the matter is procurement in Pakistan,
especially for ICB, involves too many administrative steps of bureaucratic red
tapes, each of which takes time and effort to accomplish. An experienced
procurement officer/expediter appointed for each project with large
procurements would thus be of great help in project implementation.
9.4   With regards to UK grant, WAPDA submitted the list of 0 & M equipment
requested for strengthening the safety of the Hub and Khanpur Dams, as new
addition to the project to ODA in late 1987. ODA fielded its experts to
review the requirements, specifications of equipment in late 1988. As late as
February 1990, Bank supervision mission (ODA participated) expressed concerns
for expediting:



-13-
(a)  procurement of deep diving equipment, training facilities and
technical assistance for underwater inspection of dams (under
UK grant);
(b)   procurement of equipment related to safety of Hub and Khanpur
dams; and
(c)   procurement of hydraulic dredger for Chasma (also a new
request to ODA, additional to the project).
These and other reasons explain why the UK/ODA grant will have to be extended
beyond the Bank loan closing date. About £5.3M ($8.75M equiv.) of the grant
was spent as of July 15, 1991. It may take about two more years to spend the
remaining £3.6M ($5.9M) to complete the UK grant.
9.5   Considering all changes and additions discussed above, WAPDA had done
well in implementing the project, in particular the Bank loan. In fact it is
assessed that its performance of the Bank loan was above average of projects
in eakistan.
10. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
10.1  Bank and WAPDA have enjoyed excellent relationships for over four
decades.   Its relationship on this project was no different.  Bank advice and
recommendations regarding the project were generally well received and acted
upon. UK representative, ODA, and the Bank maintained good cooperation and
relationship throughout. WAPDA and ODA also enjoyed cordial relationships.
10.2 Although ODA did not participate in the project appraisal, it accepted
the project as designed and participated in every supervision mission
including the wrap-up meeting with GOP. It received the aide memoirs that the
Bank missions presented to GOP at the wrap-up meetings but not the supervision
reports. On the other hand because ODA looked after its part of the project
on a day to day basis or rather on a problem solving basis through a
representative posted in Pakistan, Bank had less information of ODA grant.
It learned of ODA grant activities from ODA representative at the wrap-up
meetings and through information and data (mainly financial information)
mentioned in the progress and audit reports. It would be desirable if an
understanding on the exchange of information between ODA and Bank were
established early in the project implementation process.
10.3 The other governmental organization with which the Bank had a
relationship in connection with the project was the Ministry of Water and
Power. The Additional Secretary (Water) generally chaired the wrap-up
meetings. Bank, ODA and WAPDA enjoyed good relationships and support of the
Ministry on the project.
10.4  WAPDA maintained a reasonable official relationship with GOP agencies
which issued no objection certificates, import licenses, letters of credit,
etc. As agreed with Bank supervision mission, in early 1989, WAPDA appointed
a Special Procurement Officer to look after and expedite the procurement



-14-
processes. A lesson learned from this is that for future projects with major
procurement activities, it would be desirable to appoint an experienced
procurement officer/expediter from the start.
11. CONSULTING SERVICE
11.1 Both TAMS and HARZA consulting firms are well known to WAPDA and Bank
for a long time. HARZA was general consultant to WAPDA on all Indus Basin
Project work and the reviewer of Tarbela work. TAMS was the project
consultant for the design and the Engineer for the supervision of construction
of the Tarbela. Under the project, TAMS Consultant Inc. was engaged to carry
out the inspection of the Tarbela Dam in 1986-87. Two inspections were
undertaken, first in August/September 1986 during the high reservoir level and
second in June 1987 during the low water level in the reservoir. The
inspections resulted in valuable recommendations for some additional
strengthening measures for dam safety including detailed analysis of the
associated technical problems, in particular:
(a)   stability measures against the developing scour and erosion of bed
rock and rollcrete toe downstream of the Dal Darra Weir;
(b)   the strengthening of Tarbela spillway gates as required based on
dynamic analysis;
(c)  measures to correct the dissolved gypsum problem at the right
abutment of Tarbela Dam;
(d)  preventive ventilation measures against high concentration of
Radon in the drainage and inspection galleries; and
(e)  provision of additional equipment required for implementing
strengthening measures, dam instrumentation, seismic monitoring,
survey and sampling equipment, etc. and spare parts.
The strengthening works for Dal Darra Weir were carried out under the TDF and
the identified additional monitoring equipment and instrumentation were
procured under this project. TAMS services were highly technical and fully
satisfactory.
11.2 HARZA Engineering Company was engaged by WAPDA (August 12, 1987
Agreement) to provide services required for the overseas training of WAPDA
staff. In all 21 engineers were trained in 0 & H and dam safety and related
subjects at the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, Columbia University and at several
specialized companies. The cost of overseas training estimated at appraisal
was too low; the actual cost per man-month amounted to about twice the
estimates. The actual tuition/training fee per man-month was high because of
specialized training on one to one basis. (para   5.8).  However, the training
was a success and was appreciated by GOP/WAPDA. The services of HARZA were
fully satisfactory.



-15-
12. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.1 As mentioned before, the project was relatively simple with only few
covenants and conditions, consequently the legal agreements viz the Loan
Agreement and the Project Agreemeni were similarly simple but adequate.  There
were no problems in implementing the agreements through out the project
implementation.
12.2   Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement requires that WAPDA shall
furnish to the Bank for its review by February 1 of each year, a detailed
annual 0 & M program for the three dams together with budget proposals and
proposed expenditures in local and foreign currency for 0 & M of these dams
during the subsequent fiscal year, including capital expenditures for
permanent 0 & M facilizies.  It is recommended that compliance with this
section should continue until such time that the Bank is satisfied that the 0
& M program and the budget are appropriate and will continue perpetually.
According t:o Section 5.02 of the Project Agreement, the Bank has the legal
right to ask for this obligation until the loan is terminated, i.e. fully
repaid.
12.3 Referring to Section 3.02 (a) and (b) of the Loan Agreement, the Bank
can also participate in the periodic inspections of the dams, either the
annual inspection or the five year periodic inspection or both. It is
recommended that the Bank sends at least a representative to participate in
these inspections.
12.4 The Staff Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for both the
Bank and GOP/WAPDA to operate during project implementation in particular for
the part of the project financed by the Bank loan. The quarterly, semi-annual
and annual reports contained some information on the ODA grant. There were
sufficient data, information and reports readily available for the preparation
of the PCR on the part of the Bank loan, but less on the part of the UK/ODA
grant. As recommended, (para 10.2) there should be an understanding between
Bank, and cofinancier regarding the exchange of information at the start of
the project.
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE2
1. PROJECT DESIGN
1.1   The project was initiated with a clear purpose of beefing up the
capability of the Operation and Maintenance Organizations of the big
reservoirs by providing the Borrower financial help to buy the required new
2/    The report was prepared by WAPDA and submitted to World Bank.



-16-
equipment and instrumentation and the spare parts, improve the workshop
facilities and provide foreign training to personnel. The foreign component
of the cost of the whole project consisted of two parts; a loan under the
World Bank amounting to US$ 10.2 million and a grant of £8.9 million offered
by ODA of United Kingdom.
Loan provided for the following items:-
Construction and renovation of workshop buildings.
Purchase of equipment and spares.
Technical assistance and training.
UK Grant provided for the following: -
-    Purchase of equipment and spares.
-    Technical assistance and training.
1.2   The project commenced in 1983 and the part financed by World Bank Loan
was completed on June 30, 1991. The part financed by UK Grant is still in
progress.
...3 The funds provided for various components under the loan and the grant
were adequate. Initial provision for some of the items wlthin the whole
package was considered inadequate and was increased by the World Bank by
reappropriation of funds during the currency of the project on request of the
Borrower. Similarly in year 1988 it was observed that there was a saving of
£2.555 million in the total allocation of £8.9 million under UK grant. Govt
of Pakistan/WAPDA therefore requested ODA to allocate funds from the surplus
amount for the strengthening of O&M capabilities at the Khanpur and HUB Dam.
This request was favorably considered and ODA agreed to include the proposed
allocation in its grant.
1.4   The acquisition of the new equipment has obviously enhanced the
capability of the staff kept at the reservoir sites to operate, maintain and
monitor the works. Moreover, the purchase of the spare parts of the old
machinery has usefully contributed towards maintaining the old construction
equipment in the working order. Such equipment includes machines like
dumpers, loaders, dozers, graders, drilling rigs etc. The life of these
machines has been prolonged by replacement of parts, which otherwise would
have been scrapped by now.
2. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.1   It has been observed that payments to the suppliers under the loan
through Letter of Credit have been creating difficulties both for the Borrower
as well as the suppliers. The delays in the opening of LCs have been very
frequent, due to the involvement of several agencies, eg. the purchaser, Chief
Resident Representative of WAPDA at Karachi, Controller of Import and Export,
State Bank of Pakistan or its authorized banks.



-17-
2.2   The procurement under International Competitive Bidding involves the
following steps:
(i) Preparation of specifications and bid documents.
(ii) Transmittal of specifications and bid documents to the World Bank.
(iii)   Bank's clearance of the specifications and bid documents.
(iv) Invitation of Bids.
(v) Opening of Bids.
(vi) Transmittal of comparative statement of bids to the Bank with
recommendations.
(vii)   Bank's clearance of recommendations.
(viii) Award of contract.
(ix) Establishment of Letter of Credit and obtaining Bank's commitment.
(x) Delivery at site.
(xi) Issuance of Acceptance Certificate and release of 20 percent
Retention Money.
Steps (i) to (viii) take about nine months. Step (ix) i.e. the opening
of Letter of Credit has been very time consuming. According to the laid down
procedure, a copy of the purchase order is sent to WAPDA Chief Resident
Representative at Karachi who applies to Chief Controller of Imports & Exports
for obtaining import license. After the import license has been received,
application for opening of Letter of Credit is submitted to the bank
authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan for this purpose.
2.3   For the purchases made from the countries which have different ^urrency
from the US Dollar, the value shown on the import license is arrived at by
converting the currency of the supplier's country to US Dollar using
conversion rate prevailing on the date the import license is obtaine_. The
same value is transferred to the Letter of Credit which is usually established
after several weeks. During this period if the value of US Dollar depreciates
as compared to the contract currency, the value of LC established falls short
of the contract value. In such cases the LC remains in-operative till such
time that the value of LC is enhanced and IBRD commitment is obtained thereof.
For the revision of LC, the whole procedure adopted for opening of LC has to
be repeated.
2.4   It normally takes three months to get the LC established and operative
after the purchase order is placed. During the implementation of the project
in many cases, the LC established could not be utilized due to any of the
following reasons:



-18-
(i)  Value of LC deficient, needing revision.
(ii) Suppliers request for extension of delivery period.
(iii)   Shortage found in the consignment received.
In the situations as at (iii) above, the shortfalls are made good
several months later. By that time, validity of LC as well as that of the
IBRD Commitment gets expired. To get them revalidated, a lot of time is
consumed, delaying the completion of procurement.
2.5   Other factors which contributed to delays are:-
(a)   The Government regulations do not permit import of some of the
equipment/material under the import policy. While there are other
items which can be imported only by getting permission from the
Ministry of Commerce. In many cases a lot of time had been
consumed to get No Objection Certificate (NOC) for their import.
(b)   During the currency of the project the Controller of Import and
Export revised their regulations according to which it became
essential for WAPDA to get itself registered as an importer. The
grant of import license had been withheld till the registration
had been made. For some of the cases, the time lost due to this
requirement was as much as ten months.
(c)  WAPDA reorganized administrative set up of its Karachi based
representative handling the imports. Some of its staff was
shifted from Karachi to Lahore. The Lahore Office dealt with the
import permit/license etc. The staff left at Karachi handled
opening of LCs, custom clearance, and transportation of goods to
the consignee. The work at both the offices was adversely
affected for a period of about two months due to this change.
(d)   First Periodic Inspection of Tarbela Dam had been carried out in
year 1986. According to the recommendations of the Inspection
Team, it become necessary to purchase additional equipment for the
safety of the Dams.  Accordingly a request was made to the World
Bank to allow purchase of certain additional equipment from the
existing funds of the loan for which the Bank had been very kind
and approved the request of the Borrower.  However, it required
re-appropriation of funds provided for different heads within the
loan.  The reappropriation proposal had to be approved from the
World Bank as well as Government of Pakistan. About six months
were lost to meet this particular administrative requirement.
(e)   Before the commencement of the Project, it had been thought that
normally a case of procurement starting from inviting tender to
release of payment to the supplier after acceptable delivery of
goods to the site would take about nine months. It had been
assumed that LC would be established within one month from the
date of award of contract. It was assumed that NOC for the items



-19-
requiring permission of the Ministry of Commerce would be obtained
within two weeks. These assumptions did not work and much more
time was consumed to meet the procedural formalities.
2.6   During the currency of the Project, a special officer was assigned for
pursuing opening of LCs, getting NOCs etc. on the advice of the World Bank.
This arrangement improved the progress appreciably.
2.7   The procedure of the procurement under UK grant was different.  The
Crown Agents, on behalf of ODA, gather quotations of the equipment to be
purchased from UK market and forward to WAPDA with their comments. Upon
approval of a particular quotation, they place the order on the firm. The
supplier ships the goods on FOB basis consigned to WAPDA's CRR Karachi who
arranges clearance from the custom authorities and despatches the consignment
to the ultimate consignee. The Crown Agents make payment of cost to the
supplier equal to 95% of the total cost when the shipment has been made. The
remaining payment is made after the acceptance of the goods by the ultimate
consignee.
3. PROJECT RESULTS
3.1   The purpose of the Project was to improve the capability of WAPDA both
of staff and the equipment, to maintain and monitor the projects efficiently
for providing dam safety, by its own resources, after the international
contractors leave the project on completion of their contracts. With this
objective in view new equipment and spare parts of the existing equipment were
purchased. About twenty engineers and other technical hands were provided
training under the loan outside the country to enhance their knowledge and
technical know-how.
3.2   It has been observed that the engineers who had been imparted foreign
training are handling their respective jobs with increased confidence.
However the utilization of amount provided for technical assistance under UK
grant is limited to proposed training of divers locally by UK experts,
advisory services of a UK expert on workshop management and organization and
training of mechanical engineers in UK on workshop maintenance and management.
Some of the training facilities are available in Pakistan which have been
utilized. The surveyors have been trained by Survey of Pakistan Islamabad,
and mechanics have been trained in training cell operating at Tarbela
workshop.
3.3   Finances were also provided to meet the cost of First Periodic
Inspection of Tarbela Dam Project carried out in year 1986-87. Thus the
Resevoir Maintenance Facilities Project (RMFP) has greatly contributed towards
its objective.
4. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
4.1   With the assistance provided under the Project the capability of O&M
Organization has been greatly improved and hopefully the present level of



-20-
long time provided the deficiencies created from time to time in staff as well
as the equipment are made-up promptly and the organization is kept intact in
its prese4lt form in the time to come.
4.2   The importance of these dams is fully realized and inspite of financial
constraints funds essentially required for the maintenance of these vital
structures would continue to be provided as are being done currently.
5. BANK PERFORMANCE
5.1   The Bank and ODA have been very helpful in all stages of the project
i.e. inception, preparation, pre-appraisal, appraisal and implementation. The
guidance extended contributed towards a very useful project. There have been
requests at a couple of times to increase certain allocations within the loan
agreement which have always been agreed by the Bank. Request for providing
additional equipment under UK grant was also acceded to. The constant
monitoring of the utilization of the loan during implementation and frequent
advice by the Bank's Mission have been a great contribution in successful
completion of the project.
6. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
6.1   During the early stages of the project a lot of time had been consumed
to arrive at the final shape of the contract documents for the purchase orders
keeping in view Bank's proposals and WAPDA regulations. But once the basic
issues were settled the project started moving ahead smoothly.
6.2   The main weakness of the Borrower has been its inability to get the
Letter of Credit established promptly. This is because of the involvement of
several offices as has been described in previous pages of this report.
Another factor effecting the performance of the Borrower adversely has been
necessity to extend the validity of LCs for cases where there have been
shortages in the consignment received and which were made up after passage of
several months. The Borrower had to go through the whole procedural drill
again for the revision of the LCs. In the face of these difficulties the
performance of the Borrower could be rated as satisfactory.
6.3   Delays in the completion of some of the purchase orders under the
project suggest that some of the conditions applicable to the contracts should
be changed as follows:
-    The option for selecting shipping and insurance companies should
be left with the supplier instead of forcing him to utilize the
services of specified firms.?i
Action on purchase of an item should not be initiated before
arcertaining that the item was importable under the policy of the
.2/    This is agreement with the World Bank guidelines for procurement.



-21-
Government of Pakistan. However, the World Bank could keep a
check on this by holding its approval for placing purchase order
unless the Borrower certifies that the item is on free import list
or No Objection Certificate has been obtained.41
The payment should not be made through LC instead, the World Bank
should directly make payment to the supplier on receipt of
acceptance certificate from the Borrower.t/ As mentioned already
the process of procurement starting from tendering and ending at
receipt of goods and release of payment to the supplier contains
numerous procedural steps to be followed with different
organizations which results in delays. But, during the
implementation of the project, due to mutual cooperation between
the buyer and other agencies, the project has successfully reached
completion. It is specially worth mentioning that the World Bank
has been very kind and has not acted simply as a money lending
agency but has been advising on different matters which resulted
in expediting the procurement process leading to the successful
completion of the project.
7. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
7.1   WAPDA enjoyed good relations with World Bank and ODA throughout the
currency of the project. The advice of the bank during project preparation,
appraisal and implementation have been a great help. Again the assistance
provided by ODA and the Crown Agents who procured and supplied equipment to
project sites reduce a lot of WAPDA work.
PART III
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
1. CONCLUSIONS
1.1   The project as financed by Bank has been successful.  While the
objectives to improve and strengthen WAPDA's capability to safely operate,
§/    This is solely the responsibility of the Borrower.  Bank has no
information on free import list nor which item of goods has or has not
received the No Objection Certificate. Infact items being financed
under the project were agreed during negotiations and no restriction
should be imposed for their import.
.2/    Bank can and will undertake to make direct payment to supplier after it
receives the Application for Withdrawal (Form 1903) from the Borrower,
instructing it to do so, together with documentation showing evidence
of the amount due.



-22-
maintain and monitor the dams are met; the continued success/impact of the
project will depend on WAPDA's prompt actions in meeting the deficiencies
created from time to time in staff and the O&M budget, in retaining the
trained personnel, and in keeping the organization intact in its present level
of preparedness.
1.2   The Tarbela Dam inspections resulted in providing added strengthening
measures for dam safety as well as additional equipment and instrumentation
required for dam safety. The completed project provided more dam safety
related equipment and dam monitoring instrumentation than that assessed at
appraisal. Much less money was spent on buildings as the same was arranged by
other means and the money saved under this category was transferred for the
procurement of the additional equipmenm and instrumentation. The overseas
training of the local professionals is recognized and concluded as a great
success in imparting the needed knowledge on the effective O&M of major dams
and their safety.
1.3   UK (ODA) grant part of the project is still on-going, ODA agreed to
include in its grant vehicles transferred from Bank loan provision and to
procure O&M equipment for Hub Dam and Khanpur Dam as additional to the
project. ODA is still considering the requests from WAPDA for the provision
of expatriate specialists to impart training in deep diving inspection of
WAPDA staff in Pakistan. Up to July 1991, ODA grant of about £5.OM (q8.25M
equiv.) was disbursed. The grant amount has increased from f8.5M ($14M
equiv.) to £8.9M ($14.7M). WAPDA estimated that it will take about two more
years (about June 31, 1993) for the grant to be fully disbursed.
1.4   The total project cost is estimated to be $35M as compared with $42.2M
at appraisal.
1.5   In absence of the completion of ODA grant part of the project at this
stage, it is assessed that currently about 85% of the project objectives have
been met. There is no reason to doubt that the project will not achieve the
full objectives and successes when it is fully completed.
2. RECOMMENDATIONS
2.1   In the future GOP should consider issuing the No Objection Certificates
(NOC) on the list of equipment submitted by the project authority after the
approval of the project PC-1, instead of on ar. item-by-item basis which is
time consuming causing much delay in procurement (para I.5.2). The Bank
should also consider having the Government presented the NOC of the identified
and listed equipment during the Project Negotiations.
2.2   For projects which involve large procurement activities, the project
authorities should be encouraged to appoint a special procurement
officer/expediter from the start of project implementations as procurement in
Pakistan, especially for ICB, involves many administrative steps, each of
which is time consuming (Paras I.8.3, and I.9.3).



-23-
2.3   GOP should let WAPDA keep a certain percentage of its annual revenue
from the sale of electricity generated at Tarbela and Mangla Dams, for
satisfactory 0 & M, and dam safety measures including the equipment and
instrumentation renewal. An amount approximately one percent of the current
costs of the dam and appurtenant structures is considered adequate (para
I.7.2).
2.4   GOP/WAPDA should continue the annual and periodic dam safety
inspections. Bank should continue sending a representative (engineer/dam
specialist) to participate in the annual inspections of Tarbela, Mangla, and
Chasma even after this project loan closure (para I.7.3).
2.5   WAPDA should place its best qualified and experienced engineers and
technicians for the 0 & M and safety monitoring of the three dams (para I.7.4)
2.6   Bank should establish guidelines concerning the exchange of information
between parallel cofinanciers and the Bank (para I.8.2), and there should be
an understanding established between the Bank and parallel cofinanciers
regarding the exchange of information, before the start of the project
implementation (para I.12.5).
2.7   Section 2.07 of Project Agreement which requires WAPDA to furnish to
the Bank detailed annual 0 & M program and budget for the subsequent year
should continue in force un?il such time that Bank is satisfied that the 0 & M
program and the budget are appropriate and will perpetually continue (para
I.12.2).
2.8   In order to maintain its competent O&M capability, deficiencies created
from time to time in staff as well as equipment should be made up promptly and
the O&M organization be kept intact in its present form for years to come
(para II.4.1).



-24-
TabLe I
PART rv
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. PROJECT TIMETABLE
item                       Date Planned           Date Revised              Date Actual
Identification 1/                                                           July 1981
Preparation                                                                  1981 by GOP
Project Brief                                                                January 27, 1982
Appraisal Mission2/        May 1982                                         May 13-June 6, 1982
Loan Negotiations          Early Jan 83           Late Jan 83               Jan. 27-Feb. 2, 1983
Board Approval                                                              March 15, 1983
Loan Signature                                                              April 12, 1983
Loan Effectiveness         July 12, 1983                                    November 15, 1983
Project Completion         June 30, 1988          June 30, 1990             Not yet completed 3/
Loan Closing               June 30, 1989          June 30, 1991             June 30, 1991 4/
Comments
1.  Originally the project was known in early 1981 as the Tarbela O&H
Project.
2. During the appraisal mission the project concept was expanded to include
the needs of the Mangla and Chasma reservoirs and the project's name was
changed to Reservoir Maintenance Facilities.
3. Bank financed part of the project completed June 30, 1991. UK grant part
is still on-going.
4. Loan account kept open until October 31, 1991.



-25-
Table 2Ua)
2. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(a) World Bank Loan
--   Appraisal Estimate -----    ----------Actual------------
Bank/GOP                                   Cumulative                        Cumulative         Percent
Fiscal Year & Semester    Disbursement        Disbursement    Disbursement    Disbursement           Disbursed
1983/1984
As of December 31, 1983        0.15              0.15            0.151             0.151              1.5
As of June 30, 1984            1.10              1.25              -                 -                1.5
1984/1985
December 31, 1984              1.25             2.50               -               0.151              1.5
June 30, 1985                  1.50             4.00               -               0.151              1.5
1985/1986
December 31. 1985              1.65             5.65               -               0.151              1.5
June 30, 1986                  1.50             7.15             0.098             0.249              2.4
1986/1987
December 31, 1986              1.25              8.40            0.634             0.883              8.7
June 30, 1987                  0.50              8.90            1.309             2.192             21.5
1987/1988
December 31, 1987              0.50              9.80            1,660             3.852              8.7
June 30, 1988                  0.40              9.80            1.426             5.278             51.7
1988/1989
December 31, 1988              0.20             10.00            1.033             6.311             61.9
June 30, 1989                  0.20             10.20            0.774             7.085             69.5
1989/1990
December 31, 1989                                                0.495             7.580             74.3
June 30, 1990                                                    0.773             8.353             81.9
1990/1991
December 31, 1990                                                0.985             9.338             91.6
June 30, 1991                                                    0.651             9.989             98.0
COMMENT
Disbursements were standing still for 2 1/2 years after the withdrawal of the Front-end Fee ($0.151M),
because:
(a) date of loan effectiveness was delayed by four months due to delay in the approval of the
project PCI by ECNEC;
(b) replacement of Chief Engineer 0 & M Tarbela caused delays in initiation of project
activities;
Cc) the 1984/85 foreign currency allocation by GOP for the project was far short of the budget
requested by WAPDA, and the amount provided was used mainly for the procurement of equipment
under UK grant;
(d) there were prolonged delays in resolving differences on specifications and tender documents
for equipment procurement between Tarbela staff and WAPDA central procurement cell in
Lahore and Bank staff;
(C) the procurement processes in Pakistan were complex requiring several channels of clearance
such as no objection certificate, import license, transport clearance. The disbursements
started picking up after Bank and WAPDA pinpointed and began to resolve bottlenecks in
procurement processes and WAPDA staff gained experience in procurement.



-26-
Table 2(b)
(b)  UK Grant (in   equivalent)
---- Appraisal Estimate ---    --------- Actual -------
GOP
Fiscal Year &                                  Cumultive                           Cumulative        Percent
Semester                       Disbursement   Disbursement       Disbursement      Disbursement      Disbureed
1983/84
June 30. 1984                     1.346            1.346             -                 -                 -
1984/85
June 30, 1985                     3.017            4.363              1.809            1.809             1.29
1QQ5/86
June 30, 1986                     4.304            8.667              1.741            3.550            25.35
1986/87
June 30, 1987                     3.883           12.550             1.735             5.285            37.75
1987/88
June 30. 1988                     1.450          14.00               1.077             6.362            45.44
1988/89
June 30, 1989                       -               -                 1.028            7.390            52.78
1989/90
June 30. 1990                       -               -                0.305             7.695            54.96
1990L/91
June 30. 1991                       -               -                0.401             8.096            57.83
1991/92
June 30, 1992                       -               -                3.604 1/         11.700            79.59
1992/93
June 30, 1993                       -               -                 3.00 V          14.700           100.00
/ Estimated by GOP/WAPDA



-27-
Table 3
3. Pro.ect Imlementation
Comnletion Date
World Bank Loan                                     Appraisal Estimate               Actual
Buildings, (Workshops, Warehouses                       6/30/85                      6/30/87
Training Center)
Equipment and Materials                                 2/28/87                      8/30/91
Vehibles                                                1/31/87                         -
Spare Parts                                             2/28/87                      5/30/91
Technical Assistance                                    1/31/88                      3/31/90
Training (Overseas)                                     6/31/85                      3/31/90
UK Grant
Construction Equipment                                  2/28/87                      10/31/89
Workshop Equipment                                      2/28/87                       8/31/91
Miscellaneous Equipment                                 2/28/87                      11/30/89
Communication & Electrical Equip.                       2/28/87                       8/31/91
Vehicles                                                1/31/87                       6/30/90
Spare Parts                                             2/28/87                      in progress
Teebnical Assistance                                    6/31/85                      not started
Training (in Pakistan)                                  6/31/85                      in progress



-28-
Table 4
4. Project Costs and Financing
A. Prolect CRosts
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
Item                       Local Costs  Foreign Costs Total   Local Costs  Foreian Costs Total
US S M                            US $ M
Buildings                     1.35        0.75          2.10      0.25          0.10          0.35
Equipment, Vehicles          16.60       21.80         38.40      9.65 -"      23.40 ^       33.05
Spare Parts, & Supplies
Tech Assistance               0.05        0.70          0.75      0.10 '        0.85 A'       0.95
Training                       -          0.80          0.80                    0.40          0.40
Front End Fee                  -          0.15          0.15       -            0.15          0.15
Total                        18.00)      24.20 h/      42.20    10.00          24.90 £"      34.90
3'  includes estimated experditures under UK Grant to be incurred during 1991-93
B' Bank loan = $10.2. UK grant = $14.0 equivalent
B) Bank loan a $10.2. UK grant a $14.7 equivalent
S. Prolect Financina
GOP/WAPDA                Bank Loan         UK Grant
Item                  Appraisal  Final/'  Appraisal  Final   Appraisal  FinaWs' Percentage
Buildings                1.35      0.25       0.75       0.10                           1.00
Equipment, Vehicles    16.60       9.65       8.00       8.679    13.80       14.51    95.70
Spares & Vehicles
Technical Assistance    0.05       0.10        1.30      1.060     0.20        0.19    3.87
Front End Fee              -                  0.15       0.150       -                  0.43
Total1/                 18.00      10.00      10.20      9.989    14.00       14.70      100
1 Estimated
2  Total project costs are estimated to be S34.94, with GOP/WAPDA contribution of $10.00 N (reduced by S8U4),
Bank loan contributions of $10.20 M (constant), and UK grant contribution of S14.70M (increased by
$0.7?4).



-29-
Table 5
5. Status of Covenants
Agreement Section                        Covenant                                          Status
Loan Asreement
3.02 (a)                         0 & M to be In accordance with                            Complied
appropriate standards and
practices
3.02 (b)                          Facilities to be periodically                            Cofflied
inspected in accordance with                             Ist inspection
sound engineering practice and                               8-9/86
with schedules acceptable to the Bank                    2nd inspection
6/87
Prolect Acreenent
2.01                             WAPDA to furnish training                                Cofflied with
plan by Dec. 31, 1984                                    in May 1985
2.02                             WAPDA to employ consultants                              Comptied TANS
acceptable to the Bank                                   employed for dam
inspections and NARZA
for assistance In
training
2.05 (d)                         WAPDA to furnish project                                 Comptlied
completfon report not Later
than six months after the loan
closing date (i.e. not later
than Dec. 31, 1991)
2.07                             WAPDA to furnish annual program                          Comptied
and budget proposals by February
1st each year (beginning
February 1, 1984)



-30-
lable 
6. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
LY82  FYa 8      L FY4     FY8 f86  F  87  F8 FY 89  FY 90 £t1   leta
Prep & Preappraisal   16.2    4.4                  -      -       -          -     -            20.6
Appraisal              17.7   29.1              -         -          -       -      -           46.8
Negotiation              -     5.9              -         -       -          -                   5.9
Supervision              -     2.5     17.2   4.0    11.6   22.7   14.0   12.1   11.0 11.0    106.1
TOTAL                  33.9   41.9    17.2   4.0    11.6   22.7   14.0   12.1   11.0 11.0    179.4
B. Missions
SpeckIli-
Stage of                                Number of        Days1/       zation
Prolect Cycle                  Year        Persons       In field      Represented          Retina      Problem
Preparation                                08/81                         1                    10       Engineer
Preparation                   11/81          1             10            Engineer             -
Project Brief                 01/82          1              -            Engineer             -
Preappraisal                               02/82                         1                    11       Engineer
Appraisal                     05-06/82       5             30            Engrs., Econ.
Procure, &
Ln. Off.            -           -
Supervision
Mission No. 1             12/83          1             18            Engineer            1            0 (a)
Nission No. 2             03/84          1              9            Engineer            1            0 (a)
Mission No. 3             05/84          1              9            Engineer            1            0 (a)
Mission No. 4             09/84          1              8            Engineer            2            F, Pr
Mission No. 5             11/84          1             20            Engineer            2            F, Pr
Mission No. 6             03/85          1              9            Engineer            2            F, Pr
Mission No. 7             09/85          1             21            Enginer             2            Pr
Mission No. 8             03/86          3             15            Engrs, Econ,        2            Pr
Mission No. 9             11/86          1             14            Dam Spec.           2            Pr
Mission No. 10            09/87          1             14            Dam Spec.           2            Pr
Mission No. 11            06-07/88       1             14            Dam Spec.           2            Pr
Mission No. 12            12/88          1              9            Dam Spec.           2            Pr
Mission No. 13            03/89          1              9            Dam Spec.           2            Pr
Mission No. 14            01/90          1             10            Dam Spec.           2            Pr
Mission No. 15            12/90           1            10            Dam Spec.           2            Pr
Mission No, 16            05/91           1             9            Dam Spec.           2            Pr
Most missions were combined with supervision of other proJectes.  Numbers of day were those spent on this
project.
Types of Problems: F = Financial, N = Managment, Pr = Procurement, T = Technical, 0 * Others
(a) Effective date slipped 4 months and replacement of Chief Eng. 0 & M Tarbela.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 16630R1
AFGHANIStAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 /'MEIS-  -' 'A`-'  iCH<Sc      5F1t  y
AFGHANISTAN        ARAsOM              ABEL°rbn                        . --- .  RE. OF    PAFGAISTAN
\ ,                 / Attocte        @ LAMABAD ;)      .S""'           by iP *  Xn*,r t~~~~~~~~~~~20, 
)   |                          /               Rowaplndl     a       "                r ~~~~~~~~~~'#bai
\- ~   ~~~~~~~ KAAAH                                            x'~pONIA) At
CH~~~~~~~~~~AttcSLAMABAD  (._. 
1l*11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. = 1%,:, ,= T
'Ds~~          ~      ~      ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ fftm .1 f ^f    EROZEPORE
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h \'d .0 -- -
~~~~~~~~~~~0                                 M aNrges
CHASHMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mi19



