Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               F
Report No. 4152-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
February 18, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US $ 1   =   Rs 13.0
Rs   1   = US$ 0.0769
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                                    Metric Units
1 foot (ft)                                         0.3048 meters (m)
1 yard (yd)                                         0.914 meters (m)
I mile (mi)                                         1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                                         0.405 hectare (ha)
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)                                 1234 cubic meters (m3)
1 cubic foot per second (cfs)   -                   0.0283 cubic meters per
second (m3/s)
1 square mile (sq mi)                               259 ha or 2.59 sq km
Pakistani Units             English Units                  Metric Units
1 maund              82.3 lbs (0.0367 lg ton)  =  37.33 kg (0.0373 m tons)
26.8 maunds      =   2,205 lbs                       1.0 metric tonnes
27.2 maunds      =   1.0 Ig ton (2240 lbs)        =  1,016 kg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP                          -  Annual Development Program
BCM                          -  Billion Cubic Meters
CCA                          -  Culturable Commanded Area
DMO                          -  Dams Monitoring Organization
EEC                          -  European Economic Community
ECNEC                        -  Executive Committee of National
Economic Council
ERR                          -  Economic Rate of Return
GDP                          -  Gross Domestic Product
GOP                          -  Government of Pakistan
IBDF                         -  Indus Basin Development Fund
IBDP                         -  Indus Basin Development Project
IBP                          -  Indus Basin Project
ICB                          -  International Competetive Bidding
IRC                          -  Indus River Contractors
kW                           -  Kilowatt
kWh                          -  Kilowatt-hour
-MW                          -  Megawatt
LCB                          -  Local Competetive Bidding
M                            -  Million
MAF                          -  Million Acre-feet
O&M                          -  Operation and Maintenance
OCC                          -  Opportunity Cost of Capital
p.a.                         -  per annum
PW                           -  WAPDA Power Wing
PWOR                         -  Present Worth
RAP                          -  Revised Action Program
SCARP                        -  Salinity Control and Reclamation
Projects
SCF                          -  Standard Conversion Factor
SV                           -  Switching Value
TDF                          -  Tarbela Development Fund
TW                           -  Tubewell
WAPDA                        -  Water and Power Development
Authority
WW                           -  WAPDA Water Wing
GLOSSARY
kharif                       -  wet season (mid-April to mid-October)
rabi                         -  dry season (mid-October to mid-April)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



r



PAKI STAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND ...................................................        1
- The Agricultural and Irrigation Sector ................             2
- The Indus Irrigation System ..............................        3
- Indus Basin Development Fund .............................        3
- Tarbela Dam ..............................................        4
- Effect on Other Programs .................................        5
- The SCARP Program ........................................        6
- Revised Action Program ...................................        7
- Conclusions ..............................................        8
- Bank Involvement with Pakistan-s Water Sector         .     .       8
II.  RESERVOIRS OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.                                  9
- O&M Needs.                                                           9
- Operation.                                                        9
- Maintenance .10
- Dams and Blankets .10
- Spillways .10
- Stilling Basin and Spillway Plunge Pools .11
- Tunnels and Tunnel Control Gates .11
- Power Plants .11
- Requisites of Satisfactory O&M .11
- Facilities Inspections .11
- Mangla O&M Program .12
- Chashma O&M Program .13
- Tarbela Capital Investment Costs .14
- Tarbela O&M Program .14
- Repair/Remedial Program .15
- Transition to O&M .17
- Workshops and Warehouses .18
- Equipment and Vehicles .18
- Personnel .19
- Financing of Recurrent O&M Expenditures .20
- Tarbela O&M Expenditures .21



-2-
III.    THE    PROJECT    ...................................................                                                                                              22
-  Objectives .......................... I ......................    22
-    Project  Components   .........................................                                                                                            23
-    Mangla   .....................................................                                                                                             23
- Chashma .......................  23
-  Tarbela - Buildings .......................................    24
-  Workshops  and  Warehouses  .................................                                                                                         24
-  Training  Center  ..........................................                                                                                         24
-  Tarbela - Equipment, Materials, Vehicles and Spare Parts ...                                                                                                 24
-  Technical Assistance .......................................    25
-      Training    ...................................................                                                                                          26
-      Cost   Estimates    .............................................                                                                                       27
-    Project  Financing   ..........................................                                                                                            29
- Procurement ..............  29
-    Bank  Loan  Disbursements  ....................................                                                                                            30
-    Accounts  and  Audits   ........................................                                                                                          30
-   Continuing  Review  of  O&M  Programs  ..........................                                                                                           31
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................                                                                                                                  32
-  Institutional Arrangements .................................    32
-   Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ..................................                                                                                            33
-    Implementation  Schedule  ....................................                                                                                             33
V.         BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION  AND  RISKS  .............................                                                                                             34
- Overview...........................34
-   Economic  Analysis  of the Tarbela  Project  ...................                                                                                           35
-   Project    Life    .............................................                                                                                    36
-  Agricultural  Benefits   ....................................                                                                                        37
-   Power   Benefits    ...........................................                                                                                     37
-   Prices    ...................................................                                                                                       38
-   Tarbela    Costs    ............................................                                                                                    38
-      Risks                 ...........................                                     ...........................                                       38
VI.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  ........................                                                                                                    39
-    Recommendations   ............................................                                                                                            41



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1  -  Annual Expenditures
Table 1 -  Mangla Project, Actual and Estimated Annual
O&M Expenditures, 1978/79-1982/83 ....      ................   42
Table 2 -   Chashma Project, Actual and Estimated Annual
O&M Expenditures, 1978/79-1982/83 ....      ................   43
Table 3 -   Tarbela Project, Actual and Estimated Annual
O&M Expenditures, 1978/79-1982/83 ....      ................   44
Table 4 -   Tarbela Project Actual and Projected Annual
Expenditures, 1968-1989 ..............................   45
ANNEX 2  -   Available O&M Plant and Equipment
Table 1 -   Mangla and Chashma Projects, Major Items of Equipment
at  Site  or  on  Order   ..................................  46
Table 2 -   Tarbela Project, Major Items of Equipment at Site ....    47
Table 3 -  Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela, Existing Vehicle Fleets..   48
ANNEX 3   -  Additional O&M Needs and Costs
Table 1 -   Mangla Project, Detailed Cost Table ....     ..............   49
Table 2 -   Chashma Project, Detailed Cost Table ....     .............   50
Table 3 -   Tarbela Project, Detailed Cost Table, Buildings,
Technical Assistance and Training ....      ................   51
Table 4 -   Tarbela Project, Detailed Cost Table, Equipment
and  Materials   ........................................  53
Table 5 -   Tarbela Project, Detailed Cost Table, Vehicles
and  Spare  Parts   ......................................  54
Table 6 -   Summary Account by Time ..............................   55
Table 7 -   Summary Account by Project Component ....     .............   57
Table 8 -   Project Component by Time ............................   59
Table 9 -   Project Cost Summary .................................   60
Table 10-   Proposed Allocation of Bank Loan .....................   61
Table 11-  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan ......     62
ANNEX 4  -   Procurement Schedules
Table 1 -   Procurement Schedule for Buildings ....      ...............   63
Table 2 -   Procurement Schedule for Technical Assistance .........   64
Table 3 -   Procurement Schedule for Training ....................   65
Table 4 -   Procurement Schedule for Equipment and Materials .....    67
ANNEX 5  -   Technical Assistance Terms of Reference ....     ..........   73



-4-
ANNEX 6  -   Training Needs
Table 1 -  Training and Study Tour Needs - Foreign ....     ..........   77
Table 2 -   Training Needs - Courses to be Given in Pakistan .....    78
ANNEX 7   -   Implementation Schedule ..............................   79
ANNEX 8   -   Economic Tables
Table 1 -   Prices Used for Economic Analysis ....................   80
Table 2 -   Irrigated Rabi Wheat Input/Output Assumptions ........   81
Table 3 -   Tarbela:  Incremental Irrigation Water Supplies and
Incremental Rabi Cropped Area ........................   82
Table 4 -   Tarbela:  Economic Real Flow .........................   83
Table 5 -   Tarbela: Relative Importance of Project Cost and
Benefit Streams with Switching Values ....    ............   86
ANNEX 9   -   Related Documents and Background Papers in Project File   87
PLATES
I -   Organization Chart - WAPDA ...........................   88
II -   Organization Chart - Mangla ..........................   89
III -   Organization Chart - Chashma .........................   90
IV -   Organization Chart - Tarbela, Water Wing ....   .........   91
V -   Organization Chart - Tarbela, Power Wing ....   .........   92
MAPS
IBRD 16630R- Indus Project Locations
IBRD 16631 - Mangla Project
IBRD 16632 - Chashma Project
IBRD 16633 - Tarbela Project



CHAPTER I - RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01    Irrigation in the basin of the Indus River is achieved by direct
diversion from the River and its tributaries. These natural flows are sup-
plemented, particularly in the rabi season, by releases from the reservoirs
of three large dams, Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela. Large amounts of
hydroelectric power also are produced at Tarbela and Mangla. Each reservoir
also gives some flood regulation.
1.02    To assure reliable and dependable realization of expected benefits,
these large dams and their related structures must be operated and maintained
with great care and attention, with substantial costs involved. The institu-
tional, physical and financial framework within which the dams are operated
and maintained requires strengthening which the project will accomplish. In
addition, there is a critical need for foreign exchange for replacement of
equipment, particularly for the initial complement of O&M facilities at
Tarbela. About US$11.2 M in foreign exchange has been made available for O&M
facilities, equipment and training at Tarbela to date, but additional funds
are urgently needed. Funds also are needed for replacement of some equipment
at Mangla and Chashma.
1.03    Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) representatives during
a visit to Washington in early 1981 explored the possibility of additional
Bank involvement in the O&M field. This was discussed further during a Bank
mission to Tarbela in July 1981. Discussions on this subject also were held
with WAPDA during missions in August and November 1981. Following discus-
sions in July 1981, WAPDA began preparation of a first tentative list of
equipment, spare parts, warehouse needs, monitoring instruments, technical
assistance and other requirements, specifically for Tarbela. This list, was
then reviewed during a preappraisal mission during February 1982. WAPDA-s
May 1982 revision of that list served as the principal reference document for
a Bank appraisal mission that visited Pakistan during May-June 1982. During
the appraisal mission, the project concept was expanded to include the needs
of the Mangla and Chashma facilities. This report is based on the findings
of that mission comprising Messrs. R. Reynolds, W. Nickel, J. Mohamedi, G.
Greenwood and M. Artaza. Messrs. R. Crow, K. Smith and J. Rhodes of Sir
Alexander Gibb & Partners, Reading, England, the Bank's consultants for
Tarbela, also participated in the various studies and reports and gave advice
on the overall operation and maintenance (O&M) program.



-2-
The Agricultural and Irrigation Sector
1.04    Pakistan is a child of the Indus.  Beginning in high mountain ranges
to the North, the Indus River and its tributaries surge southward with the
seasonal melting snows and monsoons onto the plains below. From the Indus,
bearing rich alluvium in its abundant flow, has coursed through millenia the
lifeblood of civilizations rooted in an otherwise hostile environment with
sparse and variable rainfall.
1.05    Reflecting the importance of the Indus, agriculture is the mainstay
of modern Pakistan's economy, contributing about 30% to the country's GDP,
employment for about 60% of the labor force, and about two-thirds of total
exports. The Indus Irrigation System alone, because of its extensity,
accounts for approximately 90% of Pakistan's agricultural value-added. About
72% of the population, estimated at 87 M, 1/ resides in rural areas and is
dependent directly or indirectly on agriculture. Rainfall is low, variable,
and seasonal, making irrigation a necessity for viable agriculture. Out of a
total cultivated area of 20.1 M ha, representing about 25% of total land
area, about 11.9 M ha are serviced by canal irrigation and 4.5 M ha by small
streams, springs, wells, and seasonal flooding. Thus, only about 3.7 M ha
are cultivated under rainfed conditions. Average per capita income in Pakis-
tan is about US$300, 2/ with approximately 30% of the population having
incomes below the Bank-estimated absolute poverty level of US$150.
1.06    Over the past four years, Pakistan's economy has expanded at over 6%
p.a. as the result of broad-based improvement in all sectors, with agricul-
ture growing at 4.2% p.a., manufacturing at 8.1%, and services at 6.7%. This
performance is in contrast to that in the FY71-77 period when GDP grew by an
average of only 3.7% p.a. In part, this improvement has been due to
favorable weather, worker remittances, and beginnings of benefit realizations
from large Indus Basin capital works; but equally important, it has reflected
significant adjustments to government policies. During this latter period,
public sector participation in agriculture and manufacturing was sharply
curtailed. In agriculture, crop support prices have been enhanced, subsidies
on fertilizers lowered, and increased emphasis placed on improved government
services and quicker-gestating projects to complement large capital-intensive
programs in place or under implementation. In energy, steps were taken to
encourage conservation, establish pricing arrangements to spur more rapid
development of domestic oil and gas resources, and improve energy planning.
In addition, fiscal management included improved taxation efforts, tighter
restraint on expenditures, and relative reduction in budgetary deficits.
1/ Mid-1982 estimate.
2/ 1980 GDP per capita estimated according to World Bank methodology.



-3-
1.07    According to Government of Pakistan (GOP) goals, real GDP for FY82
was to grow at 6.2%, with commodity-producing sectors expanding by 6.9% and
services, by 5.2%. GOP's targets seem to have been nearly attained. To
support rapid growth for the remainder of the 1980s, continued progress in
structural reform will be needed. In agriculture, further measures will be
required to improve producer incentives, increase irrigation system
efficiency, as well as streamline and enhance supplies of inputs and serv-
ices. In industry, steps must be taken to continue to improve public sector
performance and develop balanced incentives for export promotion and import
substitution. In energy, additional emphasis must be given to strengthen
incentives, institutions, and planning. GOP's Three-Year Public Sector
Development Program (FY82-84) stresses quick-yielding projects to increase
productivity and capacity utilization, particularly with regard to agricul-
ture, water, and energy.
1.08    The Indus Irrigation System.  The Indus River and its tributaries
drain an area of about 0.94 M sq km, representing a total area larger than
the natioy of Pakistan. Annual runoff from this area averages about 185
billion m (BCM), or twice that of the Nile. The Indus Irrigation System is
the largest contiguous irrigation system in the world, comprising the River
and its major tributaries, three major storage reservoirs, 19 bar-
rages/headworks, 12 link canals, 43 canal commands, and about 89,000 water-
courses. The total length of the canal system is about 58,500 km (36,350
miles) with watercourses, farm channels, and field ditches running another
1.6 M km (1.0 M miles) in length. An extensive surface drainage network of
about 14,400 km (8,950 miles) has also been constructed within the Indus
System Command area.
1.09    Indus Basin Development Fund.  Efforts to divert the flows of the
Indus and its tributaries date back about 3,000 years. However, steps to
construct a system of large canals started only during the nineteenth century
with the Bari Doab in 1859. The famous Sukkur Barrage, completed in 1932,
was the first modern structure on the Indus. Partition of the Indian
sub-continent in 1947 left major headwaters of some Indus tributaries in
India, placing at risk extensive areas of irrigated land in Pakistan. At the
time of partition, the Indus System supported about 40 M people in Pakistan
and another 10 M people in India. Contentious water sharing problems were
resolved through negotiations and eventually the 1960 Indus Water Treaty that
allocated the waters of the three eastern rivers of Punjab (Ravi, Beas, and
Sutlej) to India and those of the three western rivers (Indus, Jhelum, and
Chenab) to Pakistan. To serve areas in Pakistan previously commanded by the
eastern rivers, a massive civil works effort, the Indus Basin Development
Project (IBDP), was launched to transfer water eastward from the western
rivers through a network of large inter-river link canals and to replace lost
dry season supplies by construction of giant storage dams on the Jhelum
(Mangla Dam) and on the Indus Indus (Tarbela Dam). The Indus Basin Develop-
ment Fund (IBDF) was established in 1960 with international donor support to



-4-
finance these works. The total resources of IBDF at that time amounted to
US$ 894 M. In April 1964 a Supplemental Agreement increased resources to US$
1,209 M. The Bank was appointed Administrator of IBDF, and management and
implementation of works were entrusted to WAPDA, assisted by international
consultants and contractors. Under this initial program, the following works
were implemented: (a) Mangla Dam on the Jhelum, (b) eight link canals, and
(c) six barrages, including Chashma. Construction of Indus River storage was
postponed to conserve financial resources for completion of the foregoing
works and to allow sufficient time for preparatory studies. With minor
exceptions, replacements works were completed by 1971 on schedule and repre-
sented one of the largest, most complex, and most successful programs of
construction ever attempted anywhere. Nevertheless, as implied, Mangla and
Chashma contributed little additional irrigation capacity to Pakistan-s
agriculture (although additional power generating capacity was provided at
Mangla) and mainly replaced water lost at partition.
1.10    To aid GOP in establishing priorities in the water and power sectors,
and to identify what forms additional capacity might take, the IBDF agreement
provided for a major study (Indus Special Study-1967) to be carried out,
which, together with other investigations, helped evolve a wide range of
investment programs and policies. The first major conclusion of the Indus
Special Study was to endorse GOP priority for construction of a massive
mainstream dam on the Indus at Tarbela to supplement dry season river flows
for agricultural purposes and to generate power. Reservoirs created by
Tarbela Dam, Mangla Dam and Chashma Barrage are the principal water storage
facilities of the Indus Basin. During the six-year period, 1975/76-1980/81,
these three facilities produced an average annual amount of regulated water
supplies of 16.97 BCM; with 5.41 BCM from Mangla, 0.93 BCM from Chasma and
10.63 BCM from Tarbela.
1.11    Tarbela Dam.  Following the pattern of the replacement works program,
the Tarbela Development Fund was established in 1968 with foreign exchange
contributions of US$ 149 M from Canada, France, Italy, United Kingdom and
the United States; US$ 25 M in a Bank loan; and an estimated surplus of US$
318 M from the Indus Basin Development Fund, totalling US$ 492 M to meet an
an estimated foreign currency requirement of US$ 484 M. The Bank was
appointed Administrator of the Tarbela Development Fund (TDF). Pakistan
agreed to meet all rupee costs. With financing arrangements completed, the
Tarbela Development Fund Agreement was signed on May 2, 1968 and the US$ 623
M Tarbela Contract (US$ 360 M in foreign exchange), the then world's largest
contract in the history of civil engineering construction, was awarded in May
1968 after international competitive bidding (ICB).
1.12    The Tarbela Dam, 143 m (470 feet) high and 2,740 m (9,000 feet) at
its crest and with live storage of 11.4 BCM, was destined to be the largest
volume dam in the world. It is three times larger in volume than the Aswan
High Dam. Four tunnels serve as intakes for power and/or irrigation
releases. A fifth tunnel serves to make irrigation releases. The Service



-5-
Spillway and the Auxiliary Spillway, both in the left reservoir rim area, are
some of the largest in capacity ever constructed, and in contrast with other
projects, those at Tarbela must be used at high discharges for three months
every year. The power plant had an initial installed capacity of 700 MW. An
enlargement of the power plant, completed in 1982, added another 700 MW.
Many features of Tarbela incorporate major advances in dam construction,
theory and practice, and execution and operational experience has provided
models for other facilities worldwide.
1.13    As a consequence of damage to certain sections of the Tarbela Project
during the first reservoir filling in the summer of 1974 (para 2.16), addi-
tional financing was required to meet the cost of repairs and additional
remedial works considered necessary for its completion. Under the Tarbela
Development Fund (Supplemental) Agreement 1975, US$ 37 M was contributed by
the United States, United Kingdom, Italy, Australia and IDA. In addition,
Canada agreed to make available on an untied basis the balance of
approximately US$ 3 M outstanding from its original tied contribution to the
Fund. These Special Contributions were to be disbursed against specified
works as had been determined by the Administrator. The cost of the repairs
and additional works not so determined have been met from the general resour-
ces of the Fund.
1.14    After completion of the original repairs and remedial works, further
adverse developments gave rise to the need for additional works. Available
foreign exchange resources of the Fund were insufficient to meet the
estimated costs of these further works. Accordingly, the 1978 second sup-
plemental agreement was drawn up to help meet the remaining cost of complet-
ing the Project. Under this (Second Supplemental) Agreement, contributions
amounting in total to US$ 79 M were received from Canada, Germany, IDA, Italy
and the United Kingdom. In addition, the EEC has provided US$ 15 M equiv-
alent in two credits; Kuwait provided US$ 18 M; Saudi Arabia, US$ 60 M and
Abu Dhabi, US$ 25 M.
1.15    Pakistan has financed all rupee costs for the Tarbela Development
Fund, including the Supplementary Agreements of 1975 and 1978, the entire
cost of Tunnel 5, the power plant and the primary transmission lines, equiv-
alent to more than US$ 1,275 M including duties and taxes of about US$ 340 M.
1.16    Effect on Other Programs.  The immense effort represented by the IBDP
and Tarbela programs inevitably absorbed the major proportion of external aid
as well as significant amounts of domestic resources. It also tended to
divert attention away from downstream problems associated with the operation
of Pakistan-s enormous network of irrigation facilities. Generally, original
design criteria of the canal system evolved to fit availability of water
supplies in the rivers, to meet the objective of bringing to maturity the
largest possible area of crops with the minimum consumption of water, and to
operate at a low cost and with a limited number of technical staff. These
resulted in low cropping intensities and low yields. While these irrigation



-6-
schemes were historically very successful in generating agricultural
surpluses at a time of low population densities and few technological
demands, they have been less well adapted to the requirements of modern
agriculture. In an attempt to meet rising demands, flows in excess of
designed capacities are now being carried in many canals, placing great
stress on the system and increasing significantly the risk of failure. Addi-
tionally, the huge size of the system makes large continuing maintenance
demands and mitigates against close control and scheduling of water supplies.
Furthermore, the system was largely developed without provision of complemen-
tary drainage facilities. Although over the years a fairly large network of
surface drains has been constructed, these were often based on limited tech-
nical criteria and data. As a result of inadequate drainage, over time the
watertable underlying the Indus plain has risen, leading to serious problems
of waterlogging and soil salinity in certain areas.
1.17    The SCARP Program.  With expected completion of IBDP and Tarbela
works in the mid-1970s, GOP shifted emphasis to resolving these waterlogging
and salinity problems, launching in 1973 an accelerated program of waterlog-
ging and salinity control (SCARP Program) with construction activities again
entrusted to WAPDA. Previously, however, waterlogging and salinity had not
been entirely neglected; the first integrated project to provide a comprehen-
sive system of surface and tubewell drainage in an area of the Punjab, SCARP
I, dated back to the 1950s. Planning studies undertaken in the 1960s rein-
forced this approach, identified additional areas suitable for SCARP
projects, proposed a major system of surface drains to dispose of saline
effluent, and emphasized irrigation benefits that could be obtained from
canal remodelling and from SCARP tubewells in fresh groundwater areas.
Remedial measures provided under SCARPs attempt to lower groundwater levels
through tubewell pumping and, to a limited extent, through tile drainage.
Pumping from fresh water aquifers likewise provides an additional source of
irrigation water and enables leaching of salts from saline soils. Under the
SCARPs, WAPDA to date has installed about 12,000 public tubewells, and
individual farmers have installed over 180,000 tubewells all of which con-
tribute in varying degrees to water supplies and to watertable control.
1.18    The SCARP Program, however, has not been without its problems.  Its
comprehensive approach to area development and emphasis on construction
through WAPDA have, as in the case of the IBDP/Tarbela works, tended uninten-
tionally to divert attention away from water management, on-farm development,
and related issues. Financial and other constraints have slowed implementa-
tion, and establishment of large public sector tubewell fields have placed an
on-going financial burden on operating agencies (provincial Irrigation
Departments) and have seriously restricted funds available for normal main-
tenance of the surface distribution and drainage system. In addition, this
program has had technical and operational problems. Tubewell (TW) life has
been less than planned (10-15 years instead of the assumed 30-40 years) and
because of plugging of screens and gravel packs, the capacity of most TWs
decreases about 5 percent annually. Watertables have been lowered and



-7-
irrigation supplies supplemented, but efficient management of public
tubewells generally has proved elusive. Furthermore, the addition of Tarbela
water, while significantly increasing dry season cropping, has also tended to
aggravate waterlogging problems in certain areas 1/ and brought into focus
concerns about overall efficiencies in the use of irrigation supplies. These
concerns were heightened further by the demonstration under a USAID-funded
research project that water losses in the system, especially at the water-
course level, were significantly higher than had been previously assumed.
1.19    Revised Action Program.  Increasingly during the 1970s, therefore, it
became recognized that a more direct approach to the problems of management,
maintenance, and efficiency in the operation of Pakistan's irrigation system
was required, and further, that such an approach would need to be more
closely attuned to the immediate constraints on agricultural production than
in the past. To help evolve necessary policies and programs to implement
such a strategy, a UNDP-financed study was mounted to prepare a Revised
Action Program (RAP) for irrigated agriculture. While recognizing that
programs to increase availability of water and other inputs will continue to
be important, RAP recommended in 1979 that greater priority be given to
complementary measures designed to ensure their efficient use, in particular
through farm-level programs and mobilization of private initiative and
capital. Recognition was given to the capacity of the farmer to respond to
appropriate incentives as well as to the need to generate additional
resources in both the public and private sectors to relieve acute resource
constraints facing Pakistan. In light of these considerations, RAP recom-
mended: (a) investment policies that emphasized quick returns and that
complemented existing facilities rather than expansion of irrigated area
(rehabilitation, on-farm and watercourse improvements, essential drainage,
and agricultural support services); (b) management policies that transferred
relevant activities to the private sector (e.g., tubewell development in
fresh groundwater areas) and that strengthened GOP operating agencies; and
(c) pricing policies that recognized continuing resource constraints and the
need to provide appropriate efficiency signals to the private sector.
1.20    RAP recommendations in large measure have been accepted by GOP.  A
program of watercourse improvements is underway and one for rehabilitating
the irrigation system is being activated.2/ Other proposed projects resulting
from the RAP recommendations currently under preparation include: a private
tubewell and rural electrification project designed to promote private
1/ Soil salinity survey completed by WAPDA in 1980 indicated that about 35%
of the Indus Plain has a watertable at less than 10 feet below ground
surface.
2/ On-farm Water Management Project (Cr.1163-PAK) and Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1239-PAK).



-8-
groundwater development; a SCARP transition program to transfer groundwater
management in selected fresh water SCARP areas from public to private sector;
and a command area water management program emphasizing improved management
of existing systems, together with complementary physical improvements.l/
1.21    Conclusions.  The successful implementation of Indus Basin works
facilitated division of Indus waters, and Tarbela, despite technical
problems, has greatly added to dependable dry season irrigation supplies and
power generating capacity. The SCARP Program represented the first major
attempt to tackle drainage problems in the Indus Plain and, especially in
fresh groundwater areas, also added to irrigation supplies. Increased
irrigation water, together with other complementary programs contributed to
growth in agricultural production which helped regain momentum achieved
during the earlier period of the green revolution. Water use efficiency in
the Indus System nevertheless remains well below potential. GOP has taken
steps to reorder priorities in the irrigation sector to address problems of
management, maintenance, and efficiency. The proiect will supplement these
steps by providing for increased reliability and more effective use of exist-
ing investments. The size of the irrigation sector in Pakistan implies that
a sustained effort will be required over many years. In the longer term,
there remains considerable potential for adding further to irrigation
capacity while the problems of waterlogging and salinity remain serious
constraints on agricultural production. The long-term commitment and invest-
ments required to remedy these problems and to provide additional irrigation
supplies will be substantial.
Bank Group Involvement with Pakistan's Water Sector
1.22    As presented earlier, Bank Group involvement in the water sector of
Pakistan has been both long-standing and extensive. The World Bank played a
key role in facilitating negotiations that led to the 1960 Indus Water Treaty
between Pakistan and India. It then administered and contributed (both IBRD
and IDA) to the Indus Basin Development Fund to finance works intended to
implement the Treaty. The Indus Special Study also proposed a comprehensive
program for utilizing Pakistan's water and power resources, and provided a
basis for water sector development planning. Subsequently, the Bank
administered and contributed to the multi-donor Tarbela Development Fund and,
with other financing agencies, made replenishments to the Fund to rectify
damages and complete works. These were complemented by a series of IDA
credits in support of GOP's program to combat waterlogging and salinity in
the Indus Plain. The Bank acted as executing agency for the Revised Action
Program study (1979). Thereafter, IDA has given greater emphasis to programs
to relieve immediate constraints in agricultural production through
1/ Project preparation is being financed under the UNDP Umbrella
(PAK/78/044), with the Bank as Executing Agency.



-9-
rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage facilities and improved
water management. At each stage, the Bank has been closely involved with
GOP in planning activities designed to evolve effective strategies and to
define priorities for the sector.
CHAPTER II. RESERVOIRS OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
2.01    As pointed out in Chapter I, Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela Dams are key
facilities in Pakistan-s water management system. The impounded reservoirs
regulate large quantities of water to meet irrigation demands, provide a
measure of flood control and, in addition, Mangla and Tarbela produce large
quantities of electric power; by late 1982, they constituted over 40 percent
of the nation's electric generating capacity. The major key to their depend-
able performance and to their safety is proper operation and maintenance.
2.02    The Operation and Maintenance (O&M) programs for Mangla, Chashma and
Tarbela are the responsibility of WAPDA. For Mangla and Chashma, regular O&M
programs have been underway for a number of years. At Mangla, the transition
from construction to O&M was generally smooth. At Chashma, after about 8
years of operation an inspection in 1979 revealed some damage to the barrage
floor. WAPDA carried out repairs which have just been completed. In both
projects, regular and unplanned maintenance have been carried out by WAPDA's
O&M staffs.
2.03    At Tarbela, the situation is much more complex.  Many of the Tarbela
facilities are the largest in the world and are highly stressed by the very
large discharges and river flows. Further, the local geological environment
is poor. These circumstances, together with the large repair/remedial
program beginning in 1974 and still in progress, strongly point to the need
for an O&M program of broad scope requiring skilled personnel and physical
and financial resources in depth.
2.04    The organization chart of WAPDA is shown on Plate I.  Responsibility
for Mangla and Tarbela, Power Wing is vested in Managing Director, Power.
Responsibility for Chashma and Tarbela, Water Wing is vested in Managing
Director, Water. There is a close relationship between management respon-
sibility and funding of recurrent O&M costs as explained in paras 2.32-2.33.
O&M Needs
2.05    Operation.  Detailed operation of the reservoirs and regulation of
water levels involve controlling of gates as well as, in the cases of Mangla
and Tarbela, power plant operation. Operational decisions are based on



-10-
forecast and actual rainfall and runoff, power demand, irrigation demand,
and flood management requirements.
2.06    Operating rules for the reservoirs, outlets, spillways, and power-
houses are codified in manuals. For Tarbela, these are still under prepara-
tion by the project engineers. Overall operation of the projects in terms of
water releases and loading of powerhouse units is controlled from WAPDA
headquarters at Lahore. Programs of water releases are prepared annually in
advance of actual releases. Planning for operation of the reservoirs is done
in consultation with the provinces which operate the irrigation canal sys-
tems. Powerhouse units are run according to power system requirements.
WAPDA authorities at site, however, have authority to subordinate day-to-day
operations to requirements of project maintenance and safety.
2.07    Maintenance.  Rigorous and comprehensive maintenance programs are
needed to ensure the safety, stability and integrity of Mangla, Chashma and
Tarbela. The following outlines monitoring and maintenance needs for the
various physical components of the dams and their related facilities:
(a)  Dams and Blankets.  Embankment dams and bunds must be
maintained, and, as has occurred at Tarbela, any sinkholes
in either the embankments or blanket must be filled. This
involves use of topographic and sonar surveying to detect
settlement above or below water level, and then dumping
selected materials from barges onto settled areas of the
blanket. Monitoring of hydrostatic pressures, embankments
settlement, and underseepage and abutment drainage flows
with analysis of the data is necessary as is monitoring
and evaluation of sediment deposits and their movement.
At Tarbela, because of the poor geologic environment and
permeability of abutments long-term grouting will be
necessary to maintain control of seepage as preferred seepage
paths develop. Drains in both abutments, including those
of the left abutment ridge, will require replacement or repair
on a long-term continuing basis. Service access roads and the
hydrologic network of stream and rain gauges must likewise be
maintained, repaired, and replaced as necessary. At Chashma
the long closure bunds and river training works must be
maintained including their rip-rap protections.
(b)  Spillways.  Spillway and barrage gate machinery requires
maintenance to preserve the capability of reliable
operation to control outflows. Because the spillways pass
substantial flows each year, there is need for inspection
and repair to damaged surfaces and joints. In addition,
drainage systems need periodic replacements and selected
grouting. At Tarbela, maintenance requirements of the
spillways, spillway plunge pools and the downstream Dal



-11-
Darra weir cannot yet be fully defined. Much depends on the
volumes discharged, length of time flows are discharged over
the spillways, and the relative use of each spillway. In
any event, constant monitoring is necessary of the performance
of the structures, as well as of behavior and conditions of
plunge pool beds and downstream channels.
(c)  Stilling Basin and Spillway Plunge Pools.   Energy dissipation
structures require frequent and detailed inspections together
with necessary repairs, usually consisting of patching eroded
spots and maintaining drainage systems. Foundation conditions
also must be regularly inspected which may require periodic
dewatering. At Chashma any damage to the barrage floor will
need prompt repair.
(d)  Tunnels and Tunnel Control Gates.  Maintenance of tunnels
involves periodic dewatering with inspection and repair of
damaged surfaces. Maintenance of gates, gate seals and gate
machinery includes servicing complex hydraulic and electric
systems. Both routine and preventive maintenance of cleaning,
lubrication, painting, and repair are required.
(e)  Power Plants.  Preventive maintenance must be carried out on
schedule with routine overhauls anticipated, involving major
mechanical, electrical and hydraulic equipment.
2.08    Requisites of Satisfactory O&M.  Satisfactory O&M programs for
Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela require resources supplied at adequate levels and
in a timely manner. Resources likewise must be properly related to each of
the project works outlined above. Satisfactory O&M necessitates: (a)
appropriately trained personnel; (b) proper, adequate and fully equipped
buildings and workshops, including project colonies; (c) readily available
and properly maintained equipment of the types and in the quantities needed,
together with sufficient tools and spare parts; (d) supplies with adequate
inventories assured; (e) technical support, including manuals and drawings of
project facilities and equipment, as well as assistance of technical
specialists; (f) supplemental construction support available on contractual
basis for large periodic or emergency maintenance; (g) adequate funds,
including foreign exchange, available as needed; and (h) strong management
providing work direction, coordination, control and follow-up.
Facilities Inspections
2.09.   An essential part of an overall program to assure the safety of dams
such as Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela is a clearly defined program of inspec-
tions. Such inspections should be carried out at several levels. All
employees should be instructed to be alert as they travel around the project
to watch for and report unusual situations, physical movements or changes.



-12-
In addition, supervisory personnel should carry out inspections at specific
periods of facilities for which they are responsible. If the facility is
large, special monitoring units should be created with specific respon-
sibilities. Further, periodic inspections must be carried out by experts
other than those at the dam. For large projects such as Mangla, Chashma and
Tarbela, such independent inspections should be at two levels. There should
be an annual inspection by an appropriate group from WAPDA headquarters at
Lahore. At less frequent intervals there should be inspections where some
members of inspection teams are internationally recognized experts. For all
inspections, but particularly for the annual inspection by the headquarters
team, there should be a review of the previous year's inspection and a check
to see that noted items of deficiency were followed up, funded and remedied.
2.10    At Mangla, inspections by WAPDA's Dams Monitoring Organization (DMO)
have been made since 1973. The last such inspection was in 1978. In addi-
tion, a comprehensive inspection was made in 1973 by an expatriate team led
by Binnie and Partners, the project engineers for Mangla. At Chashma,
inspections by DMO have been made since 1974. The last such inspection was
in 1982. At Tarbela, because construction work is still in progress, no firm
inspection program has been adopted. It is tentatively planned that the
first inspection with internationally recognized team members will be con-
ducted in 1983/84 and the second such inspection will be conducted in 1987.
Mangla O&M Program
2.11    Construction of Mangla Dam across the Jhelum River was begun in 1962
and completed in 1967. The Mangla project also includes two adjacent dams to
contain the reservoir, the Sukhian Dyke on the south-east periphery of the
reservoir and Jari Dam across the Jari Nullah. The total length of the three
dams is 11.25 km (7.0 miles).  They a e all of rolled earth fill embankment,
having a total volume of over 107 M m (140 M cu yards) which makes Mangla
the second largest earth fill dam in the world. The main dam is 3,140 m
(10,300 feet) in length, 140 m (460 feet) high and the reservoir has a live
storage capacity of 6.59 BCM. In addition, Mangla has the following major
related facilities.
(a)  main spillway with discharge capacity of 31,400 m3/s
(1,110,000 cusecs);
(b)  emergency spillway with discharge capacity 6,500 m 3/s
(230,000 cusecs);
(c)  five tunnels each of 9.2 m (30 feet) in diameter, converted
into power intake tunnels to the power station; and
(d)  hydroelectric power station having 8 units of 100,000 kw
capacity each.



-13-
Performance of the dam and its related structures has been relatively trouble
free. In early 1982, the total staff at Mangla was about 1,350.1/ In addi-
tion to the dam and its related civil and power facilities, there are
workshops, stores, equipment, and the Mangla Colony with schools and medical
facilities and water, sewerage, electric and communication facilities. The
organization chart for Mangla is shown on Plate II. Annual costs of the
current O&M program are shown in ANNEX 1, Table 1. A list of major items of
O&M equipment now at the project is shown in ANNEX 2, Table 1. A list of
vehicles now at the project is shown in ANNEX 2, Table 3. The total cost of
Mangla Dam and its related facilities was US$ 687.0 M 2/ including duties and
taxes.
Chashma O&M Program
2.12    Construction of Chashma Barrage on the Indus River was begun in 1967
and completed in 1971. The barrage is located about 225 km (140 miles)
downstream of Tarbela Dam. The main barrage structure is 1,085 m (3,556
feet) long and flanked on both sides by abutment walls configured to merge
with upstream and downstream guide bunds. The barrage has 52 gates each 18.3
m (60 feet) in width and has been designed to pass an anticipated flood
discharge of 26,900 cms (950,000 cfs). Although initially conceived as a
diversion facility under the IBDP, this barrage acts as a barrage-cum-
reservoir. This was achieved by raising of the barrage water level
by 2.1 m (7.0 feet), thus creating a 0.62 BCM capacity storage pond which at
full storage level extends 22 km upstream. Related facilities include the
off-take regulator of Chashma-Jhelum Link Canal on the left, a regulator of
existing Paharpur Canal on the right and a regulator for the Chashma Right
Bank Canal which is now under construction. A fish ladder and navigation
lock also are included. Though relatively small in comparison with Tarbela
and Mangla, Chashma has provided cumulative storage releases of 10.38 BCM
from 1971 to 1981. Performance of the barrage and its related structures has
been relatively trouble free except for a recent need to repair a portion of
the barrage floor. In early 1982, the total staff at Chashma was about 580.
Other facilities include shop and warehouse buildings, a vehicle storage yard
and colony. The organization chart for Chashma is shown on Plate III. Costs
of the O&M program are shown in ANNEX 1, Table 2. A list of items of O&M
equipment now at Chashma is shown in ANNEX 2, Table 1. A list of vehicles
now at the site is shown in ANNEX 2, Table 3. The cost of Chashma Dam and
its related facilities was US$ 118.8 M 2/ including duties and taxes.
1/ Includes power station staff.
2/ Expenditures as incurred.



-14-
Tarbela Capital Investment Costs
2.13    The total capital investment cost of Tarbela Dam and its related
facilities at June 1982 is estimated at US$ 2,075.8 M equivalent, of which
US$ 1,192.3 M is foreign exchange content. The breakdown by major cost
categories is shown in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1. Capital Investment Costs, Tarbela Project
(June 1982)
Currency              Total
Cost Category                       Rs M         US$ M         US$ M
Initial Facilities                   2,924.8       571.9         944.1
Repair/Remedial Program              1,959.0       274.6         473.0
Power Facilities, Units 1-10         2,344.1       221.8         435.1
Transmission Facilities              1,095.6       116.2         215.8
O&M Plant and Training                  -            7.8           7.8
Total                        8,323.5    1,192.3        2,075.8
Actual and estimated annual expenses for the period 1968, when construction
began, to 1989, when it is estimated that costs will stabilize in real terms,
are shown in ANNEX 1, Table 4. In June 1982, the cost of the project that
was described in the Tarbela Development Fund Agreement, 1968 and the Sup-
plemental Agreements of 1975 and 1978 was estimated at US$ 1,495 M equiv-
alent, of which US$ 801 M is the foreign exchange content. These include the
repair and remedial works program and show an increase of US$ equivalent 691
M in total and US$ 317 M in foreign exchange over the amounts in the original
financing plan after deduction of the preliminary works paid prior to May
1968 from the IBDF.
Tarbela O&M Program
2.14    The O&M program of Tarbela Dam is very large.  The development of
this program, with its requirements for skilled personnel, proper equipment,
adequate shops and supplies and adequate and available financing, has been
beset by a number of problems, the three most significant of which are:
(a) The repair and remedial program which began in 1974 and
will continue at least through 1983 has taken time,
attention and resources which normally would have been
devoted to the development of the O&M program.



-15-
(b) The provision governing expenditures of the Tarbela De-
velopment Fund (TDF) did not provide any resources for
capital investments in an O&M program and thus it has
been necessary to raise additional capital funds.
(c) The sheer size and complexity of the facilities and the
unexpected and large problems that have been encountered
make clear that the program of maintenance will be larger
than previously envisioned. Safety has been and remains
the key concern.
2.15    Repair/Remedial Program.  Construction of Tarbela Dam and its
auxiliary structures was begun in 1968, and in September 1973 the Indus River
was diverted through the diversion tunnels on schedule to enable the final
stage, the construction of the closure section of the dam, to be undertaken.
By end of June 1974, the main embankment was completed to full height and the
first impoundment of water began in July 1974.
2.16    On August 21, 1974, when the reservoir level had reached about eleva-
tion 447 m (1,465 feet) (maximum storage elevation is 472 m (1,550 feet)),
the first of the following series of damages and problems occurred:
August 1974      -  damage to lining of outlet chamber of
Tunnel No. 3;
- severe damage to Tunnels 1 and 2;
discovery of sinkholes in the upstream blanket;
August 1975      -  failure of floor slab of Tunnel No. 3 stilling
basin;
April  1976      -  further erosion damage of No. 3 stilling basin;.
September 1976  -  discovery of sinkholes in the upstream face of
the main embankment dam;
August 1977      -  rapid erosion of right side of service spillway
plunge pool and lateral movement of flip bucket
structure;
September 1977  -  discovery of a sinkhole in the upstream face of
Auxiliary Dam No. 1;
Since 1974       -  substantial seepage flows carrying dissolved
minerals from the right abutment drainage
galleries;
- moderate seepage flows from the left abutment
drainage galleries.



-16-
2.17    Repair of damages has been completed as follows:
(a) repair of Tunnels 1 and 2 was completed in 1975;
(b) repair of the floor slab and walls of the Tunnel No.3
stilling basin was completed in 1977;
(c) repair and remedial work on the plunge pool of the Service
Spillway was completed in 1980;
(d) repair and remedial work on Auxiliary Dam No. 1 was com-
pleted in 1981; and
(e) repair and remedial work on the plunge pool of the Auxi-
liary Spillway was completed in 1982.
2.18    Repairs and remedial work still in progress at Tarbela are:
(a) modification of Tunnel No. 4 outlet from a stilling basin
to a flip bucket (to be completed in 1983);
(b) barge dumping of silt material to seal new sinkholes as
they appear and to reduce seepage into the abutments of the
main dam (will continue for a number of years);
(c) extension of drainage curtains and drilling and grouting of
the right and left abutments of the main dam to reduce
seepage flows (will continue for a number of years); and
(d) further drilling and grouting on the left rim area of the
reservoir upstream from the left abutment of the main dam
to and including the Auxiliary Dam No. 1 (will continue
for a number of years).
2.19    The work described in paras 2.17 and 2.18 has been in progress for
over eight years. Nearly all of this repair and remedial work has been and
is being done by Indus River Contractors (IRC), the general contractor. With
IRC responsible for the work, with their strong capabilities, broad resources
and ability to move quickly, the repair program has been kept on schedule.
Until IRC demobilizes and leaves the site, probably in late 1983, any emer-
gencies and/or unexpected requirements for large or unusual work loads can be
met.
2.20    After departure of IRC, WAPDA must carry full responsibility not only
for routine O&M but also for any emergencies that might arise. WAPDA must be
able to respond quickly with sufficient technical staff, supported by ade-
quate resources at site and unconstrained by cumbersome request, review,
approval and purchase procedures as needed work is identified. So far,



-17-
WAPDA's preparation for these requirements has generally been inadequate and
slow. Delays, difficulties in recruiting and retaining good staff, organiza-
tional and procedural inflexibilities, low staff salaries, and lack of
infrastructural support have slowed establishment of WAPDA's O&M capability.
Inadequate funding of foreign exchange has, in addition, been a major cause
of currently inadequate O&M plant, equipment, spare parts and supplies, not
only for Tarbela, but also for Mangla and Chashma. Also, development of
Tarbela O&M capabilities has been affected by the large demands for
repair/remedial work, lack of flexibility in the TDF agreement for the
allocation of funds, and the sheer magnitude of the manpower, physical and
finance resource needs for proper O&M.
2.21    Transition to O&M.  The importance of proper operation and main-
tenance at Tarbela is recognized by all. Facilities must be kept safe and
fully secured at all times. A major disruption in Tarbela water availability
for irrigation or power generation would have disastrous impact on Pakistan's
economy. Furthermore, as reservoir storage is reduced in the future as a
result of siltation, flows over spillways will increase, thereby increasing
stress and wear on these facilities. Similarly, increased silt and sand
carried in the water will increase wear in tunnels and turbines.
2.22    Tarbela Dam is now in a transition period during which project con-
struction is phasing out and O&M activities are increasing. This transition
phase, actually begun in 1974 with the first reservoir filling, is expected
to last until late 1983 when the contractor work force currently at site will
demobilize and all subsequent works will be carried out by WAPDA O&M staff.
The transition has been relatively long for two basic reasons. First,
because of the magnitude and length of the construction effort, the related
demobilization and O&M mobilization have required considerable time to
accomplish. Secondly, the repair/remedial work adversely affected develop-
ment of the O&M program as WAPDA O&M staff was unavoidably involved in the
repair/remedial program. In addition, the contractor has continued to occupy
the buildings, shops and warehouses which WAPDA has planned to use for the
O&M activities.
2.23    The O&M program for Tarbela has been the subject of continuing
dialogue between WAPDA and the Bank with the objective of developing a fully
comprehensive scheme. WAPDA began its Tarbela O&M organization in 1975, and
the first separate budget for these activities was made in 1976. This O&M
organization has progressively had an expanded role, taking over respon-
sibility and control of civil, electrical and mechanical work upon completion
by the construction contractors. Planning and implementation of the O&M
program is the responsibility of WAPDA. TAMS (Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-
Stratton), the project engineers, has developed the necessary monitoring
organization, completed detailed drawings, gathered manufacturers instruc-
tions, and is currently preparing operation and maintenance manuals for WAPDA
O&M staff. Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners, the Bank's consultant on Tarbela,
has been continuously reviewing the evolving O&M program.



-18-
2.24    In addition to these ongoing long-term activities, there have also
been five specific reviews of the O&M program. First, Gibb submitted a
report in early 1978, generally setting forth the required scope of the O&M
program and progress to that time. Second, Harza (Harza Engineering Company
International), WAPDA-s general consultant, in 1978 reviewed tool, equipment,
and spare parts requirements for O&M. Third, in 1979 a consultant to the
Bank assessed and reported on the status of O&M work, WAPDA-s preparedness
for greater responsibility, and areas where the program was lagging. Fourth,
in 1980, Impregilo (Impresit-Girola-Lodigiani), sponsoring firm of the
project contractor, reviewed needs for heavy equipment, workshops, and stores
for O&M activities. Fifth, in 1982, a consultant to the Bank reviewed the
O&M programs related to the mechanical/electrical facilities.
2.25    The Tarbela Dam Project Office is headed by a General Manager and
Project Director who reports to Managing Director, Water at WAPDA head-
quarters in Lahore. The General Manager and Project Director is responsible
for all civil facilities including the repair/remedial program. The
organization chart for Tarbela Project, Water Wing, is shown on Plate IV.
2.26    The Tarbela Power Plant is headed by a Chief Engineer and Project
Director who reports to General Manager, Generation at WAPDA headquarters
in Lahore. The Chief Engineer and Project Director is responsible for the
power house O&M and additions to generation facilities. He also is respon-
sible for O&M of the spillway and tunnel gates. The organization chart for
Tarbela Project, Power Wing, is shown on Plate V. This division between
water and power interests at all levels in WAPDA has been a concern to the
Bank since it could lead to lack of coordination and duplication of resour-
ces. In March 1982, Chairman WAPDA made significant changes which realigned
responsibilities and improved coordination.
2.27    Workshops and Warehouses.  The Tarbela O&M organization is short of
required workshop and warehouse facilities. WAPDA's plan has always been to
purchase, renovate and occupy buildings used by the contractor during the
construction period originally anticipated to end in 1974/75. However,
because of the long remedial/repair program (paras 2.17-2.18) the Contractor
has only recently begun to release some buildings. Consequently, during the
years of work on the remedial/repair program, WAPDA O&M forces have used
temporary and generally inadequate facilities for the various necessary
workshops, e.g., vehicle maintenance shop, machine shop, electrical shop,
paint shop, carpentry shop, welding shop, battery shop, etc.
2.28    Equipment and Vehicles.  The present inventory of equipment at Tar-
bela consists of two groups; items acquired from the contractor as construc-
tion was completed, supplemented by items purchased specifically for O&M
purposes mostly with local funds; and equipment recently purchased (1981-82)
with funds from the EEC Credit (51-PAK)(para 1.14). Most of the older pieces
of heavy equipment such as large trucks, dozers and cranes have reached the



-19-
end of their useful economic lives and require extensive and frequent main-
tenance. The heavy vehicles on hand such as buses and trucks are mostly in
fair to poor condition. The light vehicles such as cars, vans, pick-ups,
etc., also are mostly in fair to poor condition. Further, the vehicles are
of various manufacturers and models and the lack of standardization causes
problems for maintenance and spare parts management. Standardization is
being given greater importance in present vehicle procurement.
2.29    The equipment procured with EEC funds includes eight dump trucks, one
loader, two dozers, one road grader, drilling and grouting equipment and
concrete and shotcrete equipment. Details of currently available equipment
and vehicles are shown in ANNEX 2, Tables 2 and 3.
2.30    Personnel.  As pointed out (para 2.23), the Tarbela O&M organization
was begun in 1975 and has progressively expanded its role, taking over
responsibility and control of the civil, electrical and mechanical work upon
completion by the construction contractors. Since that time, the number of
personnel in the O&M organizations has increased to a present total of about
2,140 persons, in the following general classifications:
O&M Strength (May 1982)
Classifications                                Water Wing       Power Wing
Engineers
Chief Engineers                                   1                1
Superintending Engineers                          7                4
Senior Engineers                                 30               16
Junior Engineers                                 38               41
Supervisors and Technicians
Sub-engineers/Foremen                           100               67
Technicians and Skilled Laborers                459              465
Accounts Staff                                   11                8
Clerical Staff                                   42               43
Technicians for Training                         20               35
Other Staff
Semi-skilled and Others                         333              136
Unskilled                                       193               57
Daily Wage Employees                             -  1/            -  1/
Total                  1,264               873
if "Daily wage employees" includes both skilled and unskilled employees
and strength varies according to workload needs.



-20-
2.31    The present staff of the Water Wing shown in the above tabulation is
expected to increase somewhat, probably by about 15%, to reach full strength
as the full responsibility for O&M is shifted to WAPDA on demobilization of
the contractor in late 1983. The present staff of the Power Wing is expected
to increase about 5% by the time all 10 generating units are operating. The
present and projected staffing total levels at Tarbela are satisfactory,
however, expertise in the fields of training and procurement will be needed
as additional staff are recruited.
Financing of Recurrent O&M Expenditures
2.32    Recurrent O&M funding for Tarbela Dam, excluding power facilities,
has to date been provided through developmental 1/ allocations in the Annual
Development Program (ADP) from GOP to WAPDA-s Water Wing (WW). WW, gener-
ating no revenue from its activities, must rely on GOP for financial resour-
ces, both developmental and operational. 2/ In contrast, O&M costs of the
power complex at Tarbela have been completely covered under WAPDA's Power
Wing (PW) operating budget. PW generates revenue through the sale of elec-
tricity through the Electricity Operations Branch; it covers operating costs
fully and has been able to self-finance about 55% of capital expenditures in
recent years. Mangla Dam, producing both power and irrigation benefits, is
completely operational and is controlled and funded by PW. In contrast,
since Chashma Barrage produces no power, it remains under WW, which receives
allocations through the ADP for Chashma O&M.
2.33    The present administrative and funding arrangements for WW-controlled
Tarbela facilities are likely to remain unchanged at least until Tarbela is
declared complete, i.e., until all capital works, including remedial/repair
activities have been completed. While to date no decisions have been made
concerning future changes, a number of options are under consideration.
Generally, it appears WW responsibility eventually will phase out and manage-
ment and administrative control will pass totally to PW. Regarding O&M
funding options, the most likely seems to be PW bearing full O&M costs out of
expanded electricity revenues. A second possibility would be PW and GOP
sharing O&M funding, given the national importance of Tarbela. A third
option would be for PW and the provinces to share O&M funding based on water
allocations for irrigation. The last alternative, however, would probably
1/ Allocations within ADP are not divided between developmental and
non-developmental allocations.
2/ Water charges paid by farmers for irrigation services are retained in
provincial exchequers with the view of funding O&M costs of provincially
administered irrigation and drainage facilities.



-21-
require resolution of contentious water rights disputes currently involving
several provinces. In general, however, GOP and WAPDA wish no change in
responsibilities or funding at least until (a) civil works are completed, (b)
power generating capacity at Tarbela is expanded significantly, and (c)
safeguards and resources are in place to minimize structural risk and carry
out an effective O&M program, as envisaged through the proposed project.
Based on current estimates, such change is not likely before the latter part
of the decade.
Tarbela O&M Expenditures
2.34    Actual and estimated recurrent O&M expenditures for Tarbela WW over
the 1978/79-1982/83 period by expenditure categories and including duties and
taxes are presented in Annex 1,Table 3. Rupee financing of O&M needs at
Tarbela has been monitored by the Bank and its consultants since 1980/81
under covenants included in the EEC Special Action Credit (51-PAK) and have
been found generally adequate. However, in contrast, adequate and timely
availability of foreign exchange resources has been problematical. In an
attempt to remedy this, WAPDA's foreign exchange allocations for 1982/83 O&M
needs, Rs 11.75 M (US$ 0.9 M), have been increased substantially over those
for 1981/82. In the cases of Chashma and particularly Mangla, however,
because of conservatism with respect to O&M investments and shortage of
foreign exchange resources, amounts annually budgetted for O&M have been
insufficient, particularly for capital replacements.
2.35    To provide a portion of the initial inventory of O&M equipment at
Tarbela, about US$ 11.2 M in foreign exchange for O&M purposes has been made
available from various sources; in January 1980 US$ 3.2 M was provided from
insurance recoveries, 1/ in March 1980, US$ 6.5 M 2/ was provided from the
EEC Special Action Credit (51-PAK) and US$ 1.5 M is available from the loan
from Abu Dhabi.
2.36    Based on current estimates, Tarbela O&M costs, including costs of
both WW and PW, of Rs 190 M (US$ 14.6 M) 3/ in 1982/83, are expected to
stabilize at about Rs 350 M (US$27 M) p.a. in constant mid-FY83 terms by
about 1987/88, with phase out of construction of capital works and full
1/ Pakistan's share of the insurance recoveries of US$ 2.7 M plus US$ 0.5 M
from the element of total insurance recovery allocated for return to TDF.
2/ Due to the fluctuation in the exchange rates of the EEC currencies
against the US$ since January 1980, the current value expressed in US$
equivalent is 4.6 M.
3/ ANNEX 1, Table 4.



-22-
development of the O&M program. Should PW assume full O&M funding respon-
sibility for Tarbela works thereafter, this additional financial obligation
could be borne relatively easily, based on current PW financial projections.
Reaching about Rs 548 M in nominal terms in 1987/88, such O&M costs would
cause only an estimated five percent reduction in projected net income from
PW operations. By 1989/90, nominal O&M costs, estimated at about Rs 616 M,
would lower net operational income by about four percent. In each case, PW
would continue to operate well above the mandated 40% self-financing level
for power capital expenditures. However, whatever financing arrangements
are eventually finalized, GOP and WAPDA must ensure sufficient allocations
and utilization of funds, including foreign exchange, for O&M needs (espe-
cially spares and replacements) at Tarbela--as well as at Mangla and Chashma.
CHAPTER III. THE PROJECT
3.01    The project would finance a five-year (FY84 to FY88) program to
strengthen WAPDA's capability to operate and maintain the Mangla and Chashma
projects and in particular Tarbela Dam and its related facilities.
Objectives
3.02    The project objectives would be to:
(a) provide additional O&M equipment and replace certain worn
out and obsolete equipment at Mangla and Chashma projects
to ensure full maintenance capability;
(b) provide the required items of buildings, workshops and stores,
equipment, vehicles, tools and spare parts at the Tarbela
Project to ensure safe and dependable O&M of that project;
(c) provide technical assistance, primarily for institution
building, in the areas of stores and procurement organization
and management, workshop organization and management and
maintenance records management;
(d) provide a training center together with assistance in
training techniques and curriculum planning to aid in insti-
tution building and especially to counteract the continued
loss of skilled personnel. The center would serve WAPDA's
entire O&M organization and would emphasize training for
middle managers, supervisors, skilled technicians and
apprentices;



-23-
se, provide training abroad, study tours and training in Pakistan
for engineers and technicians; and
(f)  provide expatriate assistance in carrying out the first
(1983/84) and second (1987) safety inspections of the
Tarbela Projecte
Project Components
3.03    The project would consist of the following specific components:
(a)  bu'ldings (construction or rehabilitation of workshops,
warehouses and a training center);
(b)  Drovisicn of various equipment with spare parts, as well
as workshop equipment and special tools;
(c}  technical assistance; and
Kd)  training.
3.04    Additional facilities, including buildings, shops and equipment and
technical assistance and training are needed to enable the staffs of each
project to carry out effectively the day-to-day O&M programs in the interest
of dependable and efficient operation and safety. Another clearly related
purpose is institution building. WAPDA's experience of operating and main-
taining Mangla and Chashma provides a base upon which the project would build
to strengthen WAPDA's overall O&M capability and particularly the O&M
capability at the larger and more complex Tarbela. Appropriate organiza-
tions, properlv managed and supported by physical and financial resources
must be developed and although a start has been made, much remains to be
done. The necessary institution building especially would be accomplished by
technical assistance and training.
Mangla (Base Cost US$ 2.1 M)
3.05    Six items of equipment are needed at Mangla - two mobile cranes, a
road grader, a dozer, a low-bed trailer and a tank truck. Some of these
would replace existing equipment which is beyond economic repair and some
would be additional equipment, the need for which has been determined by the
experience of operating and maintaining Mangla facilities since 1967. The
proposed equipment is listed in ANNEX 3, Table 1, together with costs of
identified training needs.
Chashma (Base cost US$ 1.2 M4)
3.06    Eight items of equipment are needed at Chashma Barrage - a mobile
crane, a road grader, a tank truck, three trucks, a loader and a dozer. All



-24-
of these items would be additional equipment, the need for which has been
determined by the experience of operating and maintaining the Chashma
facilities since 1971. The proposed new equipment is listed in ANNEX 3,
Table 2, together with costs of identified training needs.
Tarbela - Buildings (Base Cost US$ 1.7 M)
3.07    Workshops and Warehouses.  The Tarbela O&M organization is short of
required workshop and warehouse facilities (para 2.27). In anticipation of
contractor demobilization in late 1983 (para 2.19), WAPDA has reviewed
workshop and warehouse needs and prepared plans which involve both renovation
of some remaining and usable contractor buildings and construction of new
buildings. The project would finance both renovation of existing buildings
and construction of new buildings as shown in Table 3.1. The costs of the
buildings are listed in ANNEX 3, Table 3.
Table 3.1. Renovated and New Workshops and Warehouses
(Square Feet)
Existing, to
Tarbela                           be Renovated          New            Total
Workshops                             52,000           12,060          64,060
Auto and Equi-mert Repair             13,000            5,800          18,800
Warehouses                             13,000          12,100          25,100
Covered Parking                          -            23,200           23,200
Total                        78,000          53,160         131,160
3.08    Training Center.  The project would provide a properly designed and
constructed training center at Tarbela with an area of about 325 m2 (3,500 sq
ft), together with necessary equipment and training aids. In addition,
technical assistance in training techniques and curriculum planning would be
provided (para 3.10(a)). This training center could serve WAPDA's entire O&M
organization. Building location, layout and design would be by WAPDA with
technical assistance provided by the project. Cost of the training center is
shown in ANNEX 3, Table 3.
Tarbela - Equipment, Materials, Vehicles and Spare Parts
(Base Cost US$ 30.4 M)
3.09    A large amount of equipment, materials, vehicles, supplies and spare
parts are needed to complete the basic O&M requirements at Tarbela. Analysis
of needs was made by organizational units, the "residencies". Comparisons
also were made between residencies when similar items were needed to obtain



-25-
full utilization of equipment. The organizational units and their general
needs are as follows with detailed list of needs in ANNEX 3, Table 4:
(a)  civil works residency - mobile cranes, compressors,
pumps and numerous items of equipment and materials;
(b) gates and hoists residency - mobile cranes, compressors
and miscellaneous equipment;
(c) drilling and grouting residency - drills, compressors,
generator, trucks, mobile cranes and numerous items of
equipment and materials;
(d) workshops and machinery residency - trucks, conveyor,
compressors and tank trucks;
(e) geotechnical residency - monitoring instruments and testing
and seismic equipment;
(f) survey residency - electronic, laboratory and survey
equipment;
(g) hydrology residency - hydrological, meteorological and
laboratory equipment;
(h) transport residency - trucks, tank trucks, buses, vans
and spare parts; and
(i) miscellaneous - hospital and communication equipment.
Technical Assistance (Base Cost US$0.6 M)
3.10    To attain the desirable level of maintenance, provide training to
WAPDA O&M staff, particularly to supervisors and technicians, and assist in
institution building, technical assistance (41 manmonths) would be financed
by the project in the following fields :
(a) an expatriate specialist in technical training (about six
manmonths at about US$ 10,000 per manmonth including firm's
overhead, housing and travel);
(b) an expatriate specialist in stores and procurement organi-
zation and management (about six manmonths at about US$
10,000 per manmonth including firm's overhead, housing and
travel);



-26-
(c) an expatriate specialist in workshops organization and
management (about six manmonths at about US$ 10,000 per
manmonth including firm's overhead, housing and travel);
(d) an expatriate specialist in maintenance programming and
maintenance records management (about six manmonths at
about US$ 10,000 per manmonth including firm's overhead,
housing and travel);
(e) an expatriate specialist in communications (about three man-
months at about US$10,000 per manmonth including firm's
overhead, housing and travel);
(f) expatriate specialists in design, review and inspection of
large dams (about ten manmonths at about US$ 35,000 per man-
month including firm's overhead, housing and travel); and
(g) deep diver services in conjunction with the dam inspections
(about 4 manmonths at about US$7,000 per manmonth including
firm's overhead, housing and travel).
Although the technical assistance would primarily be provided at the Tarbela
Project, staff members from Mangla and Chashma would participate as
appropriate. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance are given
in ANNEX 5. Costs are given in ANNEX 3, Table 3. WAPDA would emnloy
suitable consultants for the above assignments on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank and in accordance with Bank guidelines to strengthen
their entire O&M organization.
Training - (Base Cost US$ 0.7 M)
3.11    There is need for a program of regular and progressive training in
O&M at Tarbela and a similar need exists at Mangla and Chashma (para 3.05 and
3.06). Such training should serve a number of purposes and cover the full
range of employees. Loss of experienced engineers and skilled technicians
and supervisors in most areas and at most levels is a serious problem at all
three projects. Although the problem must be approached from several direc-
tions, it is clear that an enlarged training program is needed which will
provide replacement of experienced and skilled personnel as they leave.
Training in management and supervision principles and techniques would also
be required. Furthermore, there will be a continuing need for training at
the apprentice level. Training and refresher courses also are necessary for
personnel operating and maintaining new equipment. Training at all levels
also is a necessary part of a program of institution building.
3.12    At the present time on-the-job O&M training programs are in force at
all three facilities but an organized program, including classroom work and
of the breadth and depth required, is not available. In addition, under the



-27-
TDF, 24 engineers of the Tarbela O&M organization and Director-Tarbela from
WAPDA Headquarters have participated in training visits to study and observe
methods, techniques and procedures of O&M activities and organizational
arrangements as practiced on other projects abroad. The bulk of this train-
ing has been carried out in the USA.
3.13    The following three areas would be funded by the project to
strengthen the O&M training program:
(a) Foreign training of 27 engineers and 9 technicians in 13
special areas, most of which relate to equipment management,
operation and maintenance. The details of these special
training requirements are listed in ANNEX 6, Table 1.
(b) Study tours of foreign projects for 6 engineers to observe
and study maintenance facilities, procedures and management
techniques. These special study tours are included in
ANNEX 6, Table 1.
(c) Training in Pakistan of 40 engineers and 22 technicians in
7 special areas. The details of these special training re-
quirements are listed in ANNEX 6, Table 2.
Candidates for the training program would be selected from throughout WAPDA
to strengthen WAPDA's overall capability in O&M. Details of the foreign
training program and study tours of foreign projects would be developed and
arranged by Harza as a continuation of the training program described in para
3.12. Costs-of the training are given in ANNEX 3, Tables 1, 2 and 3 for
Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela, respectively. It is envisioned that the train-
ing program under (a) to (c) above, would be funded by the project the first
two years, FY84 and FY85, and, together with existing training programs and
the training gained under the project technical-assistance and training
programs, would serve as the basis for a continuing program for WAPDA's O&M
staff. Assisted by the consultant in technical training provided by the
project (para 3.10(a)), WAPDA would formulate and continue the enlarged
training program. The plan for such a training program would be furnished to
the Bank for review by December 31, 1984.
Cost Estimates
3.14    Total project costs are estimated at US$42.0 M, including US$15.6 M
equivalent in taxes and duties and excluding the Bank Front End Fee. About
90% of the cost represents investments for Tarbela (US$37.8 M); 6%, for
Mangla (US$2.6 M); and 4%, for Chashma (US$1.6 M). Foreign exchange costs
are estimated at US$24.0 M or about 57% of total project costs. Base costs
are calculated in December 1982 prices. Physical contingencies, which relate
primarily to equipment, amounting to 5% of total base cost, have been
included. Contingencies for price escalation, equal to 21% of total base



-28-
cost, have been estimated in accordance with annual inflation rates presented
with Table 3.2 which provides a summary of cost estimates, detailed in ANNEX
3.
Table 3.2. Cost Estimate Summary
Foreign
Item                               Local    Foreign    Total   as % of    % of
------   US$ M----------    Total    Base Cost
Buildings                            1.7         -         1.7         -         5
Equipment                            6.8       10.6       17.4        61        53
Vehicles                             3.2        3.3        6.5        51        19
Spare Parts and Supplies             2.3        4.2        6.5        65        19
Technical Assistance                 0.1        0.5        0.6        83         2
Training                             0.1        0.6        0.7       86          2
Total Base Cost /a                14.2       19.2       33.4        58       100
Physical Contingencies               0.8        0.9        1.7        53         5
Price Contingencies /b               3.0        3.9        6.9        57        21
Total Project Cost                18.0       24.0       42.0       57        126
Front End Fee on
Bank Loan /c                          -         0.2        0.2      100
Total Financing Required          18.0       24.2       42.2       57
/a Base costs are expressed in constant mid-FY83 prices.
/b Based on following assumptions of inflation.
82/83    83/84      84/85      85/86     86/87      87/88
( %------------------- (%      a p. - -) - - - - -  -  -
Local Costs        8.5       8.0        7.5       7.0        6.0       6.0
Foreign Costs      5.0       6.75      7.25       6.5        6.0       6.0
/c  Bank loan assumed as US$ 10.20 M, which includes capitalized Front End Fee.



-29-
Project Financing
3.15    The Bank loan of US$10.20 M would finance about 42% of foreign
exchange costs (US$24.0 M), or about 38% of total project costs net of taxes
and duties (US$26.4 M equivalent). In addition, the loan would finance the
Bank Front End Fee (US$ 150,739), which is capitalized into the loan.
Cofinancing in the amount of US$14.0 M equivalent to cover the remaining
foreign exchange costs is expected to be provided by U.K. Cofinancing assis-
tance would be on a parallel basis. GOP would cover local project costs
estimated at US$18.0 M equivalent, including US$15.6 M equivalent in taxes
and duties. Funds for the project, including all external financing, would
be provided to WAPDA as part of the federally-financed Annual Development
Program (ADP). Approval of the PC-i by ECNEC would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. The financing plan for project works is summarized as fol-
lows:
Proposed Project Financing
Item                   GOP/WAPDA            Bank    Cofinancing       Total
--------------------US$ M-----------------______
Buildings                1.35               0.75          -             2.10
Equipment, Vehicles,   16.60                8.00        13.80          38.40
Spares & Supplies
Technical Assistance    0.05                0.50         0.20           0.75
Training                 -                  0.80         -              0.80
Front End Fee                               0.15         -              0.15
Total            18.00             10.20        14.00          42.20
Procurement
3.16    Because workshops and warehouses would be a small part of the project
(US$ 2.1 M, including contingencies), International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
would not be practical. Therefore, procurement of renovated and new
workshops and warehouses would be by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) proce-
dures with local funds. LCB would follow WAPDA procedures which are satis-
factory to the Bank.



-30-
3.17    Procurement of equipment, vehicles, tools and spare parts to be
financed by Bank loan funds would be by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Furniture and small items costing less than equivalent of
US$50,000, up to the aggregate of U$500,000, may be procured according to
local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.18    Procurement of equipment, vehicles, tools, spare parts and technical
assistance to be cofinanced would follow procedures of the cofinancing
agency.
3.19    Bidders on equipment would include a suggested list of spares
required for the first three years of equipment operation. All bids for
spares would remain valid for one year.  To facilitate the orderly procure-
ment of spares, and to minimize the possibility of over or under ordering of
some items, major orders for spares for equipment on which there has been
insufficient prior operating experience would be placed in three annual and
approximately equal lots except that all spare parts would be procured by the
last year of the project period. Procurement schedules are shown in ANNEX 4.
In later years of the project, the items remaining to be procured and the
procurement schedules would be reviewed and appropriate adjustments made in
the procurement program for best utilization of the remaining funds.
Bank Loan Disbursements
3.20    All foreign exchange requirements would be met out of the Bank loan
and cofinancing funding. Bank disbursements assume cofinancing is on a
parallel basis.
3.21    Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made for (a) 100% of the
Bank Front End Fee, capitalized into the loan; (b) 35% of local expenditures
for buildings; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equip-
ment, vehicles, spares and equipment; (d) 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipment, vehicles and spares; (e) 60%
of expenditures for other locally procured equipment, vehicles, spares and
supplies and (f) 100% of expenditure for technical assistance and training.
Based on the foregoing percentages, the proposed allocation of the Bank loan
is presented in ANNEX 3, Table 10. Disbursements for all items would be
fully documented. The estimated loan disbursement schedule is presented in
ANNEX 3, Table 11. It is expected that the loan would be disbursed fully by
June 30, 1989, about one year after project completion. Because of the
uniqueness of the project, the disbursement schedule was not patterned on
existing disbursement profiles.
Accounts and Audits
3.22    Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela expenditures under the project would be
subject to normal GOP and WAPDA expenditures control and auditing procedures,
which are considered to be satisfactory to the Bank. Project accounts would



-31-
be maintained separately and in a readily identifiable form for each of the
three facilities. Project accounts would be audited separately from overall
accounts by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of
unaudited annual project accounts would be sent to the Bank for review not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, followed by cer-
tified copies of the audited accounts and auditor's report within 9 months of
the end of each fiscal year.
Continuing Review of O&M Programs
3.23    The buildings, equipment, technical assistance and training provided
by the project would strengthen WAPDA's capability to operate and maintain
Mangla and Tarbela Dams and Chashma Barrage and their related facilities.
After completion of the project, the strengthened O&M programs will form a
strong base to assure efficient and safe operation of the facilities. To
assure continued operation of the strengthened programs, adequate funds (para
2.34) must be provided and rigorous inspection programs (para 2.09) must be
initiated.
3.24    With respect to overall O&M, WAPDA would properly operated and main-
tain the facilities. A covenant concerning O&M was included in Development
Credit Agreement (Tarbela Project, Second Supplement (771-PAK)) and in Spe-
cial Action Project Agreement (51-PAK (EEC)) as follows:
"Section 3.02a. The Borrower shall cause the dam, reservoir
and appurtenant structures included in the Project and all related
electric power generating installations to be operated and ade-
quately maintained at all times in accordance with appropriate
irrigation and electric power utility standards and practices."
The foregoing existing covenant was renewed and expanded to include the
Mangla and Chashma facilities.
3.25    With respect to adequate funding, GOP/WAPDA would make adequate
allocations, including required foreign exchange, to meet the total required
annual recurrent expenditures on the dams and related facilities including
O&M of capital investments. A covenant concerning review of annual WAPDA
budgets for Tarbela O&M was included in Special Action Project Agreement
(51-PAK (EEC)) as follows:
"Section 2.06. Except as the Administrator may otherwise
agree, WAPDA shall present to the Association for its review by
March 31 of each year a detailed annual program reflecting budget
proposals and proposed expenditures for operation and maintenance
of the project during the subsequent fiscal year, including capital
expenditures for permanent operation and maintenance facilities."



-32-
The foregoing existing covenant was renewed and expanded to (a) include
adequate provision of both local currency and foreign exchange, (b) advance
the date of review by two months to February 1 and (c) enlarge the covenant
to include the Mangla and Chashma facilities.
3.26    With respect to inspections, a covenant concerning Tarbela inspec-
tions was included in Development Credit Agreement (Tarbela Project, Second
Supplemental (771-PAK)) as follows:
"Section 3.02(b). Without limiting the generality of
paragraph (a) 1/ above, the Borrower shall, under
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, cause the dam and
other appurtenant structures included in the Project to be perio-
dically inspected by qualified and experienced engineers in
accordance with sound engineering practice in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures, or in the quality or adequacy of maintenance or methods
of operations of the same, which may endanger their safety."
An identical covenant also was included in Special Action Credit Agreement
(51-PAK EEC)). The foregoing existing covenant was enlarged to include the
Mangla and Chashma facilities and to provide for developing schedules for
inspection and follow-up reviews that are agreeable to the Bank.
CHAPTER IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Arrangements
4.01    WAPDA's entire O&M organization would be strengthened by the project,
particularly by the institution building aspects of (a) the technical assis-
tance in specialized fields of O&M, and (b) the training program which
includes construction of a new training center building, foreign training,
foreign training tours, local training courses and training given to local
senior trainers by the expatriate experts provided under the technical assis-
tance portion of the project. The present O&M organizations and the present
and proposed staffing levels are satisfactory. However, as additional staff
are recruited to reach projected levels, emphasis will need to be given to
recruiting qualified staff for training and procurement activities. The O&M
1/ "Section 3.02(a). The Borrower shall cause the dam, reservoir and appur-
tenant structures included in the Project and all related electric power
generating installations to be operated and adequately maintained at all
times in accordance with appropriate irrigation and electric power
utility standards and practices."



-33-
organizations at each of the reservoirs included in the project under the
direction of the respective Project Directors/Chief Engineers, would be
responsible for project implementation under general direction and review of
General Manager, Dams, WAPDA Headquarters. WAPDA would be the executing
agency.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.02    WAPDA would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the
project. This responsibility would include (a) monitoring and assessing
project implementation progress and performance, and (b) evaluating the
project upon project completion. Monitoring of the project would include
collecting, reviewing and evaluating information regarding the physical and
financial aspects of the project. The respective Project Directors/Chief
Engineers at Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela would each prepare Quarterly and
Annual Progress Reports and submit them to the General Manager, Dams, WAPDA
Headquarters within 30 days of the end of reporting period. Copies of con-
solidated reports would be sent to the Bank. This would provide WAPDA
management with early warning signals regarding current/or potential problems
and the status and progress of the project. The cofinancier would implement
its monitoring and evaluation procedures.
4.03.   Evaluation would concentrate on assessing the impact of the project
on the capability and effectiveness of the O&M organizations to carry out
their work and to ensure proper care, dependable performance and safety of
the dams and their related facilities. The evaluation would be carried out
by an independent unit within WAPDA. The experience and capability of
WAPDA's Dams and Monitoring Organization appear to make it a satisfactory
organization to undertake such work. A program for evaluation would be
prepared and submitted fur review and approval of the Bank and the cofinanc-
ing agency by September 30, 1983. Annual progress reports and a final
Project Evaluation Report would be submitted within two and four months
respectively of the close of each reporting period.
Implementation Schedule
4.04    The project would be implemented over a period of five years, FY84-88
(see Implementation Schedule, ANNEX 7). It is envisioned that cofinancing
funds and the Bank loan funds would be expended throughout the project period
(FY84-88). Construction and Rehabilitation of buildings (para 3.07) includ-
ing workshops, warehouses and a training center (para 3.08) would be com-
pleted during the first two years of the project. Technical assistance (para
3.10) and training (para 3.11) would also be given strong emphasis during the
first two years as would procurement of high priority items of equipment.
During the final years of the project, the remaining items of equipment,
vehicles, materials and spare parts would be procured.



-34-
CHAPTER V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Overview
5.01    Hydroelectric projects and dam/barrage facilities on the Indus and
its tributaries figure prominently in the economy of Pakistan. Of the
estimated potential 10,000 MW that could be economically generated in
hydro-electricity, only about 25% has been harnessed to date. Such
facilities account for over half of Pakistan's current power generation
capacity (hydro-electric and thermal). With doubling of Tarbela power to
1,400 MW in 1982 on completion of a second power plant, its economic con-
tribution was enhanced further, and plans are in place for Tarbela develop-
ment to over 3,000 MW. Mangla, with 800 MW of installed capacity, also makes
a significant contribution to the national grid electric power supply.
5.02    In terms of irrigation benefits, the main purpose of reservoirs at
Tarbela, Mangla, and Chashma is to store water in the summer flood season,
when river discharges are greatly in excess of irrigation requirements, for
use in the rabi (winter) season, when the main food crops are grown but
natural river flows are low and variable. In addition, such facilities
enable regulation of river discharges and matching canal deliveries to rather
inflexible time patterns of crop water requirements in a way not possible
formerly. Thus, the reservoirs, Tarbela in particular, have enabled sig-
nificant expansion of rabi cropped area and by providing regulated water
supplies have also made the use of yield-augmenting inputs, such as improved
seeds and fertilizers, as well as improved on-farm irrigation practices
technically justified and financially rewarding to farmers.
5.03    Tarbela, providing about 12.3 BCM of average annual irrigation
releases, services a system of canal commands of about 8.8 M ha CCA, about
44% of the nation's cultivated area and 53% of its irrigated area. By
1979-80 rabi cropped area within the system had expanded to 4.0 M ha, yield-
ing a 25% increase over the 1970/71-1974/75 average pre-Tarbela area of 3.2 M
ha. About 75% of this increment was attributable to increased rabi water
availabilities made possible by Tarbela investments, the balance in large
measure was due to increased exploitation of usable groundwater resources.
By 1980, about 80% of the incremental rabi area within the Tarbela canal
command system was planted to wheat, producing about 800,000 tons of
incremental grain, or about 22% of the national increase (3.6 M tons) over



-35-
pre-Tarbela levels (7.2 M tons). 1/ This incremental wheat production from
additional Tarbela-related irrigated area exceeds the 75% reduction in wheat
imports since the mid-1970s, about 750,000 tons. At present, incremental
rabi irrigation supplies from Tarbela are estimated to provide about Rs 1,500
M p.a. in net agricultural production benefits (expressed in mid-FY83 con-
stant economic prices) from resulting incremental rabi cropped area.
5.04    The project, establishing important capital plant and enhancing
technical expertise for O&M programs at Tarbela, Mangla, and Chashma, would
act as an insurance measure assuring the safety of structures, and thus,
continuation of vital power and agricultural benefits to Pakistan's economy.
Economic Analysis of the Tarbela Project
5.05    Bank experience has confirmed that O&M investments have relatively
high economic rates of return (ERR), frequently exceeding 50%. In the case
of the project, O&M investments are urgently needed as an insurance measure
to protect majol, national infrastructural investments already in place and to
safeguard benefits derived therefrom. Proposed O&M investments under the
project would cost but a fraction of original capital investments. For
example, the project's O&M expenditures for Tarbela would represent only
about 1% of Tarbelas past investments. Therefore, it would not be meaning-
ful to calculate an ERR for the project facilities in order to justify
investment. Instead, in recognition of the project's emphasis on Tarbela
facilities and in light of its importance to the Pakistan economy, this
report reconfirms the economic viability of the total Tarbela complex. Con-
cerning Tarbela's economic impact, a 1967 sponsored feasibility study stated:
The Tarbela Dam is such a strategic element in the inte-
grated programs proposed that it is extremely difficult
to quantify the contribution which it makes itself to
increased production. Nevertheless the Bank Group tried to
1/ The balance of incremental wheat production has been attributable to
other new irrigated area resulting from greater exploitation of usable
groundwater (both public and private tubewells), and from higher produc-
tion on traditional area with more regulated water supplies (surface and
groundwater) and higher fertilizer use. The economic analysis of the
Tarbela Project described herein excludes Tarbela's contribution to
increased productivity on traditional rabi cropped area.



-36-
measure this contribution and it believes that, to the
extent it is measurable, a reasonable conservative range
for the rate of return would be about 9-13 percent. 1/
Since this feasibility study and start of implementation, project costs have
increased significantly, due primarily to the need for a remedial/repair
program. There have also been delays in downstream investments in irrigation
and drainage works as well as continuing inadequacies in water management,
extension, and other agricultural services points that were addressed under
the recent Revised Action Programme (para 1.19). On the other hand, new high
yielding crop varieties have become available, and economic value of agricul-
tural production and electrical energy attributable to the Tarbela Project
have increased sharply thereby mitigating the impact of higher project costs.
Likewise, the economic impact of Tarbela was strengthened by the expeditious
completion of initial works, and although the operational filling of the
reservoir was delayed one year until the summer of 1975, the reservoir has
produced each year its full yield of regulated irrigation water supplies
despite ongoing remedial/repair work. Further, the initial power plant began
production on schedule in FY76 and has continued operation without interrupt-
ion. Based on re-analysis, considering all incremental capital and recurrent
costs, incurred and projected, and estimated agricultural and power benefits
valued at border prices, the Pakistan economy is realizing an economic rate
of return on Tarbela investments of about 12.5%. Based on quantified
benefits discussed below, relative agricultural and power contributions to
the present worth (PWOR)2/ of total estimated benefits are 27% and 73%,
respectively (see ANNEX 8, Table 5). 3/
5.06    The economic real flow for the project is provided in ANNEX 8, Table
4, with a full referencing of underlying assumptions. The following,
however, outline the principal assumptions of the economic analysis:
(a) Project Life. The project has been assumed to have a
life of 50 years from the start of construction in FY68.
Irrigation and power production both began in FY76.
1/ "The Lieftinck Report": World Bank, Study of the Water and Power Resour-
ces of West Pakistan, Volume I (General Report), Washington, July 28,
1967, p. iii.
2/ Streams discounted at 10% p.a, the assumed Opportunity Cost of Capital
(OCC) in Pakistan.
3/  Based on incremental agricultural production before adjustment for
incremental crop production costs.



-37-
(b)  Agricultural Benefits.  As indicated in paras 5.02-5.03,
a principal benefit derived from incremental Tarbela
irrigation water availabilities has been the expansion of
rabi cropped area, 70-80% of which has been planted to wheat,
the staple foodgrain of Pakistan. By means of regression
analysis, the relationship between water supplies--both
surface and groundwater--and rabi cropped area was estimated
using data from the ten Tarbela canal command groups covering
the pre- and post-Tarbela period of 1970/71-1979/80. Because
data were sufficiently detailed and to reflect better the
importance of timeliness of water availabilities to farmers'
decision-making, surface water deliveries during the critical
land preparation months of October and November were used in
the analysis (see ANNEX 8, Table 3). As a result, these two
water variables (surface and groundwater) explained 85% of
the variation in rabi cropped area over the period analyzed.
With high statistical significance, elasticities between surface
water deliveries (October-November) and rabi cropped area and
between tubewell pumpage and rabi cropped area were estimated at
75% and 23%, respectively. Using the estimated relationship
between surface water supplies and rabi cropped area, incre-
mental area with Tarbela supplies was calculated from predicted
values. Since rabi wheat accounted for the major portion of
total incremental area within the Tarbela canal command system
during the post-Tarbela period, irrigated rabi wheat was used
as the representative crop in estimating total net benefits
from the incremental cropped area attributable to Tarbela
releases. Based on historical yield records from the Tarbela
canal command system, incremental production and net benefits
were estimated for past years and for the remaining project
life. See Annex 8, Table 2 for wheat input/output assumptions.
(c)  Power Benefits.  Power benefits from Tarbela hydroelectric
units were measured in terms of the savings in investment, O&M,
and fuel costs for alternative thermal facilities that would
be necessary to provide an equivalent input to the national
grid, based on past and projected monthly demand. Necessary
thermal capacity required to provide the same energy generation
as Tarbela on an annual basis was also examined. The analysis
includes power development at Tarbela through Unit 10, scheduled
for commissioning in FY86, or upto 1,750 MW. Capacity expansion
has not been included beyond this current program since no work
schedules or detailed feasibility studies have been prepared on
which to base estimates. Estimation of thermal alternative
capital costs has been based on a World Bank estimate of US$ 800
per kW in mid-1980 prices, or about US$ 870 per kW in mid-FY83
prices. Because Tarbela facilities produce chiefly baseload
power, the thermal alternative has been considered to be a



-38-
series of steam plants fueled by residual oil. It was esti-
mated that alternative residual oil requirements would grow
from about 0.03 M tons in FY77, at the start of Tarbela power
generation, to 2.3 M tons in FY88 at full development to
Unit 10. Fuel needs were based on an assumed output of
4,000 kWh per ton of fuel. (see Annex 8, Table 4).
(d) Prices. For internationally traded commodities, economic
prices at farmgate level were derived from past and projected
(1975-1995) world market prices expressed in December 1982
currency values. Appropriate adjustments were made for
freight, handling, and quality differentials. Local costs
and domestically-priced benefits were adjusted to border
basis through application of appropriate conversion
factors, the principal one being a Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) of 0.9. Year-specific prices have been used
for inputs and outputs over the FY76-95 period, after which
prices were assumed to remain unchanged in real terms.
Regarding residual oil pricing, an import equivalent has
been assumed since quantities required to supply alternative
thermal plants (para 5.06 (c)) would far exceed recent
levels of residual oil exports, averaging 0.6 M tons over
the FY77-81 period, 1/ and those likely in future. Input
and output prices used in the economic analysis are summarized
in Annex 8, Table 1.
(e) Tarbela Costs. All incremental costs of the Tarbela Project
have been incorporated into the analysis, including those
associated with construction (initial works as well as
remedial/repair activities), power installations through
Unit 10, resettlement of affected persons and utilities,
Tunnel No. 5, O&M plant, transmission lines, and recurrent
expenditures of Tabela's Water and Power Wings.
Risks
5.07    There are no significant risks associated with the project.  Based on
the above economic analysis of the Tarbela complex, the following section
considers some of the possible risks associated with the Tarbela project.
Problems encountered since water was first impounded at Tarbela in 1974 have
been substantial (para 2.16-2.18). Prompt action has been taken to deal with
these, and measures to safeguard the Project have been given highest priority
1/ Over this five-year period, a maximum was reached in FY80 with 880,000
tons.



-39-
by GOP. Work programs to repair and strengthen structures have been formu-
lated with the advice of international experts, and have been based upon
results of model tests. These work programs have been carried out by the
Contractor effectively and on schedule within difficult time constraints
imposed by seasonal river conditions. However, given the unprecedented size
and complexity of the Tarbela Project, the possibility cannot be ruled out
that further technical problems may arise in the future. Based on sen-
sitivity test results presented in ANNEX 8, Table 5, however, the Tarbela
Project's economic viability displays considerable robustness to cost
increases or benefit shortfalls. Such results are accentuated by the fact
that actual costs and benefits over the FY68-82 period are known, implying
that significantly higher cost overruns/benefit shortfalls must occur in the
future to yield the same overall sensitivity results. To minimize risk, the
Tarbela Project is being monitored continuously with the assistance of an
elaborate system of surveying and recording equipment. Also, GOP has agreed
to establish adequate O&M arrangements for Tarbela and to arrange regular dam
inspections. It is hoped, therefore, that with measures already taken or
planned, including investments proposed under this project, future problems
will be relatively routine and manageable. In addition, institution building
in terms of technical assistance and training carried out and continued
effectively would reinforce and enhance the utilization of O&M capital plant
included in the project not only at Tarbela, but also at Mangla and Chashma.
In addition to the immediate task of ensuring that the project is completed
and functions satisfactorily, intensive efforts will be required to reap the
full benefit of the additional irrigation water from the Project. This will
require, inter alia, complementary downstream investments, strengthening of
agricultural extension services, provisions of inputs, improvement of water
management and appropriate government pricing policies. These requirements
are being addressed by other projects assisted by the Bank as well as in the
context of the on-going Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit.
CHAPTER VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    Assurances have been obtained from GOP and/or WAPDA that:
(a) WAPDA would employ suitable consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with Bank guidelines
(para 3.10);
(b) WAPDA would formulate and implement an O&M training program as
a continuation of the program developed and provided by the
project. The plan for such a training program would be fur-
nished to the Bank for review by December 31, 1984 (para 3.13);



-40-
(c) GOP/WAPDA would provide adequate allocations including required
foreign exchange, to meet the total required annual recurrent
expenditures on the dams and related facilities including O&M
of capital investments (para 3.25);
(d) WAPDA would present for review by February 1 of each year, be
ginning in 1984, detailed annual programs reflecting adequate
proposed expenditures, both local currency and foreign exchange,
for operation and maintenance of the Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela
projects during the subsequent fiscal year, including capital
expenditures for replacements and for permanent O&M facilities
and equipment (para 3.25). (This expands Section 2.06, Special
Action Project Agreement (51-PAK (EEC));
(e) WAPDA would cause the dams, reservoirs and appurtenant structures
and all related electric power generating installations to be
operated and adequately maintained at all times in accordance
with appropriate irrigation and electric power utility standards
and practices (para 3.24). (This repeats and expands Section
3.02(a), Development Credit Agreement (Tarbela Project, Second
Supplemental (771-PAK) and Section-3.02(a), Special Action
Project Agreement (51-PAK (EEC));
(f) the Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela Dams and their appurtenant
structures would be periodically inspected by qualified and
experienced engineers in accordance with sound engineering
practice in order to determine their condition and the quality
of maintenance or methods of operation and to determine whether
there are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures,
or in the quality or adequacy of maintenance or methods of
operations of the same, which may endanger their safety. Spe-
cific schedules for inspections and schedules for follow-up
reviews would be established (paras 2.10 and 3.26). (This
generally repeats and expands Section 3.02(b), Second Supple-
mental Agreement (771-PAK) and Section 3.02(b), Special Action
Project Agreement (51-PAK (EEC)); and
(g) accounts, together with disbursement documents, would be
audited annually and prepared by an independent auditor
satisfactory to the Bank and copies of an unaudited account
would be sent to the Bank for review not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year, followed by cer-
tified copies of the audited accounts and auditor's report
within 9 months of the end of each fiscal year (para 3.22).
6.02    Condition for credit effectiveness would be approval of PC-1 by ECNEC
(para 3.15).



-41-
Recommendations
6.03    With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 10.20 M on standard terms. The Borrower
would be the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Mangla Project: Actual and Estimated Annual O&M Expenditures, 1978/79-1982/83 a/
(Rs M)
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83 b/
Administrative Expenditure                 3.423   3.846   4.657   5.978    6.915
Capital Works                              1.309   0.517   1.106   1.106    2.081
Extension and Improvement                  2.109   1.682   3.438  15.478   12.395
Maintenance and Repairs                    3.672   2.378   3.509   3.509    3.644
Tools and Plant                            0.558   0.548   0.586   0.586    1.660
New Supply                                   -        -        -     5.463       -
Stores and Stocks                          0.120   0.164   0.061   0.061         -
R.M. of Workshop                           0.019   0.023   0.046   0.046    0.055
Share of Common Services                   1.357   1.378   1.234   2.335    3.141
Total                               12.567  10.536  14.637  34.562   29.891
Foreign Exchange Portion             0.342   0.254   0.191   4.001    9.405
a/ Includes Taxes and Duties.
b/ Proposed Budget Estimate.
Source: WAPDA
-42-



ANNEX 1
Table 2
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Chashma Project: Actual and Estimated Annual O&M Expenditures, 1978/79-1982/83 a/
(Rs M)
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83 b/
Establishment Cost (Salaries)              3.753   4.292   3.685   4.349    4.640
Equipment, Repair and Maintenance          1.795   3.885   5.339   3.794    5.110
Commodities and Services                   0.925   0.798   0.951   1.229    1.160
Miscellaneous                              0.018   0.413   0.335   0.295    0.090
Total                               6.591   9.388  10.310   9.667   11.000
Foreign Exchange Portion               0        0        0       0        0
a/ Includes Taxes and Duties.
h/ Proposed Budget Estimate.
Source: WAPDA
-43-



ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Tarbela Project: Actual and Estimated Annual O&M Expenditures,
1978/79-1982/83
(Rs M)
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82       FY83 b/
Establishment Cost (Salaries)           11.822   12.292  13.914  17.000   20.418
Equipment Replacements                  17.421    5.875   2.840  68.714   33.722
Civil Maintenance                       17.940   16.667  16.030  14.781   29.805
Equipment, Repair and Maintenance        8.110   10.749  17.900  25.059   32.455
Commodities and Services               24.873   23.145  21.831  23.074   26.265
Transfer Payments                        0.095    0.095   0.080   0.083    0.085
Miscellaneous                           45.181   18.399  13.180   0.241    2.250
Total                           125.442   87.222  85.775 148.952  145.000
Foreign Exchange Portion         13.935    7.714   3.058   3.500   11.750
a/ Excludes Power Wing Facilities. Includes Taxes and Duties.
b/  Proposed Budget Estimate.
Source:  WAPDA
-44-



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Tarbela Project Actual and Projected Annual Exenditures, 1968-1989 1/
Years (FY)                    1968  1969   1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980   1981   1982  1983  1984  1985  1986   1987   1988   1989
Capital Costs
1.  Resettlement
a.  Local Currency, Rs M             18.6  39.4  32.0  40.8  52.5  72.2 113.9 113.9  77.4  76.3  56.9  62.2    4.3   34.7  7?,.>  46.5    32.2   52.2   33.1    -                       -
b.  Foreign Currency $ M               -            -       -             -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -        0.4   0.4    0.3    -        -       -
2.  Civil Facilities 2/ 5/
a.  Local Currency, Rs M             46.9  92.2 137.4 125.2 271.1 236.1  184.9 181.7 126.7 123.8 160.0 258.4 350.5 381.4 338.9 384.4  176.8  58.9   31.0    -                           -       -
b.  Foreign Currency $ M              7.0  47.1  86.4 111.8  99.2   50.0  41.3  50.6  38.3  28.3  26.0  17.7  37.6  40.5  36.4   48.1    21.3    9.6    6.2    -                        -       -
3.  Power Facilities 3/ 6/
a.  Local Currency, Rs M              -      -      -       3.5  10.0  19.5  37.5  48.2  64.5  78.1  21.2  29.0 134.8 234.1  307.6 219.5  705.4 259.5 171.7    -                        -       -
b.  Foreign Currency, $ M             -      -      -      -       -      3.2    9.4    4.8    5.4    2.8    0.7  19.4   33.0  29.4  37.1   20.2    31.1   20.9    4.4    -             -      -
4.  Transmission Facilities
a.  Local Currency, Rs M              -      -      -       -      -      0.6    2.8  36.2 184.8 149.7  59.4  16.9  10.5    3.0    2.0  22.7  268.8 235.2  93.7    9.3    -                     -
b.  Foreign Currency $ M              -      -      -      -       -      0.1    0.3    4.1  20.7  16.8    6.7    1.9    1.2    0.3    0 2    2.3    27.3  23.9    9.5    0.9                   -
5.  Tunnel No. 5 4/
a.  Local Currency Rs M               -      -      -       -      6.8    5.0  32.4  67.4  39.4    9.8    1.0    1.0    0.5    0.1    -           -        -      -       -      -      _       _
b.  Foreign Currency $ M              -      -      -      -       0.7    4.1  10.0  20.4  11.6    1.8    0.6    0.3    0.3    -           -      -        -      -       -      -
6.  Totals
a.  Local Currency Rs M              65.5 131.6 169.4 169.5 340.4 333.4 370.6 447.4 492.8 437.7 298.5 367.5 500.6 653.3 724.4 673.1  1203.2 605.8 329.5    9.3
b.  Foreign Currency $ M              7.0  47.1  86.4 111.8  99.9   57.4  61.0  79.9   76.0  49.7  34.0  39.3  72.1   70.2  23.7   70.6    80.1   54.8  20.4    0.9
O&M Costs
Water Wing
7. Capital Investment Costs
for OM Plant 11/
a.  Local Currency, Rs M               -        -      -      -      -       -      -      -           -      -      -                             8.4    26.4    1.2            -
b.  Foreign Currency, $ M             -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -         -       -      -      -           4.3     9.4    4.4    0.2    0.4    3.0    3.0 9/
8.  Replacement Costs
a.  Local Currency, Rs M
b.  Foreign Currency, $ M
9.  Recurrent Costs 12/
a.  Local Currency, Rs M              -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       8.8  23.8  33.4 127.0  90.3   79.8  94.6 117.7  190.3 212.0 238.9 256.5 257.5 257.5 9/
b.  Foreign Currency, S M             -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       1.6    0.1    1.3    1.2    0,3    0.5    1.0       0.9    0.9    1.3    1.4    1.1    1.1 9/
Power Wing
10. Capital Investment Costs
for O&M Plant 7/
11. Replacement Costs
a.  Local Currency, Rs M
b.  Foreign Currency, $ M
12. Recurrent Costs 8/
a.  Local Currency, Es M              -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -     10.0  11.0  13.0  15.0   33.0   34.0    34.0  34.0  45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0 9/
b.  Foreign Currency, $ M             -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      0.6    0.7    0.8    0.9    1.8    1.9       1.9    1.9    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5 9/
Transmission
13. Recurrent Costs 12/
a.  Local Currency, Rs M              -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      9.0  10.0  12.0   13.0   13.0   14.0    14.0  14.0  24.0   24.0  24.0   24.0  9/
b.  Foreign Currency, $ N             -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -       -      0.6    0.7    0.7    0.8    0.8    0.8       0.8    0.8    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3  W/
1/  Actual costs are shown pre-FY83: thereafter c o st etimates are expressed  n constant mid-FY83 prices.
Customs duties and sales taxes are not included.
2/  Includes dams, tunnels, spillways, inlet and outlet gates and power house buildings.
1/  Includes turbines, generators and related mechanical/electrical equipment.
4/  Funded separately by WAPDA.
5/  No allowance for costs beyond currenL (1982) commitments.
6/  No allowance for costs beyond units 9 and 10.                                                                                                                                                              z
7/  Included in Item 3.                                                                                                                                                                                      c
8/  Includes units 1-10.  Costs at current price level or at end December 1982 price levels.
9/  Estimated to stabilize at this level in real terms.  Reference footnote 1/.
75/ Sinking fund annual contribution.  Likely to contain some local cost content.
11/ Pre-FY83 OM plant investments included under Item 9.
T7/ Costs at current price level or at end December 1982 price levels.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Mangla: Major Items of Equipment at Site or on Order
Item                                            Number          Status
1.  Mobile Crane, 90T                                          1                U
2.  Mobile Crane, 40T                                           1               U
3.  Mobile Crane, IOT                                           1               U
4.  Low Bed Trailer w/ Prime-mover                              1               U
5.  Water Wagon                                                 1               U
6.  Welding Set, Diesel                                         1               U
7.  Rear Dumper, 20T                                           2                U
8.  Dozer, TD20                                                 1               N
9.  Loader, L200                                                1               N
10. Mobile Crane, 20T                                           1               N
11. Compressor, 600 cfm                                         1               0
12. Compressor, 300 cfm                                         1               0
13. Welding Machine                                             1               0
Chashma: Major Items of Equipment at Site
Item                                            Number         Status
1.  Compressor                                                  1               U
2.  Concrete Breakers                                          6                U
N - New
O - On Order
U - Used
-46-



ANNEX 2
Table 2
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Tarbela:  Major Items of Equipment at Site 1/
Item            Number  Status            Item             Number  Status
Earthmoving Equipment                        Civil Residency Equipment
Rear Dumper, 35T            8        U       Crawler Drill             1       U
Rear Dumper, 35T            8        N       Compressors               4       U
Loader, 8cy                  1       N       Shotcrete Machine         3       U
Loader, 6 cy                2        U       Shotcrete Machine         4       N
Dozers, D8                  2        U       Concrete Mixers           3       U
Dozers, D8                  2        N       Concrete Mixers           2       N
Grader                       1       U       Concrete Dumpers, lT    6         N
Grader                      1        N       Concrete Vibrator        22       N
Mobile Crane, IIOT          1        U       Compactor                 2       N
Mobile Crane,  18T          1        U       Spray Paint Set           2       N
Workshop Equipment                           Survey Residency Equipment
Lath, Metal                 3        U       Barges, 100 cy            3       U
Shaper, Metal               1        U       Crane Barge               1       U
Saw, Metal                  1        U       Tug Boat                  1       U
Drill                       2        U       Sonar Launch              1       U
Forklift                    1        U       Ferry Boat                1       U
Compressor, cfm             4        U       Boats                     7       U
Welding Set                 1        U
Welding Set                 9        N       Hydrology Residency Equipment
Gas Welding Set             1        U       Mobile Crane              1       U
Spray Paint Set             1        U       Boat                      2       U
Sand Blasting Set           1        N
Mobile Floor Crane          2        N       Drilling and Grouting Residency
Lubrication Unit            1        U       Equipment
Lubrication Truck           1        N       Drill Rigs                7       N
Tire Truck                  1        N       Grout Mixers              7       N
Grout Pumps              5        N
Drilling Hammers        28        N
Pumps                    6        N
1/ Does not include equipment of contractors.
N - New
U - Used
-47-



ANNEX 2
Table 3
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela, Existing Vehicle Fleets 1/
Item                                             Number
Mangla Project
Trucks                                                     2
Buses                                                      4
Pick-ups                                                   8
Light Vehicles                                            22
Total                                      36
Chashma Project
Pick-up                                                    I
Light Vehicles                                             6
Total                                       7
Tarbela Project
Trucks                                                     14
Buses                                                      22
Pick-ups                                                   75
Light Vehicles                                            145
Total                                      256
1/ Does not include vehicles of contractors.
-48-



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
MANGLA
Detailed Cost Table
(US$ '000)
Quantitv                                       Base Costs                  Phs.
-~--------~----~-------------------Unit  ----------- --------- -Cont. For.
Unit   83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total Cost 83/84 84/85   85/86  86/87 87/88 Total   Rate  Exch.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIFMENT
Truck-Mounted Crane (110-Ton)-WB        No.         -      1     -      -      -     1  720       -  720.0        -      -      -   720.0  0.05   0.5
Truck-Mounted Crane (40-Ton)-UK         No.         -                   -      -     1  509      -       -   509.0       -      -   509.0  0.05   0.5
Motor Crader-WB                         No.         -      -      1     -      -     1  182      -       -   182.0       -      -   182.0  0.05  0.55
Oozer-UK                                No.         -      -     1      -      -     1  273      -       -   273.0       -      -   273 0  0.05  0,55
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                                                     720,0   964.0       -      - 1,684.0
B. VIEHICLES
r    Low-Bed Trailers (40-Ton)-WB             No.         -     -      1      -     -      1  260      -       -   260.0      -      -   2600.  0.05   0.5
Tanker (2000-Galloni)-UK                 LS         -      -      1     -      -     1   70      -       -    70.0       -      -    70.0  0.05   0.5
Sub-Total VEHICLES C                                                                                        -   330.0       -      -   330.0
C. TRAINING
Stores Management                     Manmonth      2      -     -      -      -     2    5  10.0        -               -      -    10.0  0.05       1
Workshop Eauipment                    Manmonth      4      -     -      -      -     4    5  20.0        -               _      _    20.0  0.05       1
Project Management                    Manmonth      -      1      -     -      -     1 0.83       -    0.8        -      -      -     0.8  0.05       0
Senior Management                     Manmonth      4      -     -      -      -     4 0.83   3.3        -                            3.3  0.05       0
Middle Management                     Manmonth      8      -     -      -      -     8 0.83   6.6        -        -      -      -     6.6  0.05       0
Diiagnostics, Repair 2 Maintenance  Manmonth        2         -                -     20.56   1.1         -                            1.1  0.05       0
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                                                41.1    0.8         -     -      -    41.9                                   
___-   ------    -------    ----_  _----    -------                           LiW
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                               41.1  720.8 1294.0       -      - 2,055.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                  41,1  720.8 1,294.0       -      - 2,055.9



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
CHASHMA
Detailed Cost Table
(US$ f000)
Quantity                                       Base Costs                  Phu.
-----------------------------------Unit  ----------------------------------------Cont. For.
Unit   83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total Cost 83/84 84/85 85/86  86/87  87/88  Total   Rate  Exch.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT
Mobile Crane (18-Ton)-UK          No.         -     -      -     -      1      1  336      -     -       -       -  336.0   336.0  0.05   0.6
Motor Grader-UK                   No.         -     -      1     -      -      1  182      -     -  182.0        -       -   182.0  0.05  0.45
Water Tanker-UK                    LS         -     -      -      1     -      1   70      -     -       -   70.0        -    70.0  0.05   0.5
Dumper (3 gd3)-UK                  LS         -     -      1     -      -      1   34      -      -   34.0       -       -    34.0  0.05  0.59
Dumper (7 vd3)-UK                  LS         -     -      -     2      -      2   59      -     -       -  118.0        -   118.0  0.05  0.59
Front End Loader (3 yd3)-UK        LS         -     -      -      1     -      1  179      -     -       -  179.0        -   179.0  0.05  0.56
Dozer-UK                           LS         -     -      1     -      -      1  273      -      -  273.0       -       -   273.0  0.05  0.55
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                                           -      -  489.0  367.0  336.0 11921.0
B. TRAINING
Workshop Eauipment             manmonth       1     -      -     -      -      1    5   5.0      -       -       -       -     5.0  0.05       1
ProJect Manasement             manmonth       -     1      -     -         -   10.83       -   0.8       -       -       -     0.8  0.05       0
Senior Management              manmonth       2     -      -     -         -   20.83   1.7       -       -       -       -     1.7  0.05       0
Middle Management              manmonth       4     -      -     -      -      4 0.83   3.3      -       -       -       -     3.3  0.05       0
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                                         10.0   0.8       -       -             10.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                        10.0   0.8  489.0  367.0  336.0 1202.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                           10.0   0.8  489.0  367.0  336.0 1 202. 8



FAMFIAF                                                        ~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 3
38E8'RYOIfe MAIFTENNCE  NLCIATIF5  ~'POJELT                                                               Table  3
TAR'3ELA - BUILDINGS, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND1 TEAINTNC
Eeteiled Left Vi
'wd Atitp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ct
~~E'F-.- S'~~PF                      't2       32:34    _4/3    35c 'S  3,3  '  8Tee              Les   3'8       343     3   -     < 3'3                    '
563L2FEN'  ~      sc"Pjvtcr                                                                                 3'',  ' 335
j<s  'esoeteen.           3.333   ~~~~~~~~~.33(  -      -       -  32333  3.31~~~~~M  2nC.33C.2  :- 
Fe'. Jeeecneen                    '32             -  12,133        -       -~~~~~~~~~O   - 1213   3       -    2422
.220   -      -           C.Ci~~---- --------------    ---
.t12033ro'-efe" Jr,  .-> A'D
Ct1..5- 3 3'n'c~~~~~~~~~n.'t  l'st.                                                                        1
Ss:'<tere'oe  Meraseec-,:  F Fetpd'-Qi  to',ns'r'  -  -     -      -                     ii       --- ---- --- --- --------
Steesh 3: ;et-;'ettrUt-                                                            24343-                                                                        4
Auto  En l t  Lclul i:t :ctrn-3                        mnUistn,                            -                            .                3.
PlotterNjet,
Onac Equ~Ent 0'pr;eir'D'                             ncr,eorth         -Y 
Jvt"  '  Cc's',                                              0 uo
T ou r-                        '.,anmenth       ii~-               -             -         2          13'.- 
T'e ec-httt3'-o,                                    "cnh              3        -       -      -       -                    1' 4  C'    9-c
rm -"i3~~2mer't               nrrn"'                     7-          -       -      -       -        33,0      150                              A 
C5y3p  3 Aset Treetnest   ~ ~~~~~~eeecmnth                 it                                       16 :   3.3                                                  555  
'jessie  Secasseert     maccents         2~~~~~~     ---- "              3 , 3         3       16.3--  ---- ---- --- ----  ----
grits'  3'eret:ot       nanmcrtb         12           -    -    -         -        12 2.32    iCC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----  ---- ---- ----  --- 3----
I e4sss'nc''Fe'st-  F Setnoererce  sAnnertS  Ze  -   -      -      -        :eJ.ee    .5.2            -         ---  ----  -----
Ire Im coot eeir     ". 331",3   to scvAn' Iced
.3 ,ecb     it?   c'rCo-st   ',' '  urot to't  cvrs? s-t>    ee>Inr':    e r.e.lv. Fef If
- 5 1-



PAKISTAN                                                         ANNEX  3
Table 4
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT                                             Page  I
TARBELA - EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
tetailed Cr5  >jie
1us$ 0nsc
4u2ntitv                                             Rase Costs                       Phi,
-------------------------------Unit                                    C-__-__-t-----------------------Corit, For,
Unit 83/84 84/S  85    86/87 87/88 Total Cost  82/84             4,/85   85/66   86t/S    S7/,E   T3otal   Rate  E-cho
l. lNQESIMENT COSTS
A. EOUIPMENT hN J MATERIALS
1. CIQIL WORKS RESIDENCY
Mobile Cranes (lS-Ton:-WE                          No          -          1      1      -      2  336         -        -   336.0   336.0         -    672.0  0.05  0,55
Coupressors 1650 cfK  150 asil-W?                 NG              2                    2      2    1         -   182.0          -        -      -    182.0  0.05  0.55
Concrete Break.ers-Ut                              No       -      2      -      -      -      2   22               46.0                  -      -      46.0  0.05  0.65
Drill i Bits-WR                                    LS       -      -      -                                   -   106,0          -        -            l08,0  0.05  0.65
PumesiMotors 0 Pontoons-WE                        -S                                                   -        -   386.0          -      -    386.0005  0,66
Ssaftoldino Pines 0 Formo-UK                       LS              -         -      -      -                  -   108.0          -        -      -    108.0  0.05  0,65
Steel Yard Ecuipeent-UK                            LS       -                                           -     35,0         -        -      -      35.0  0.05  0,57
Carpantra Shop Esuipment-UR                        LS          -      -      -      -          -              -    95.0          -        -      -      95.0  0.05  0.63
Paint ins Eauinment-UK                             LS       ---2                                                       -         -        -      -      22.0  0.05  0,87
Pipes-UK                                           LS       _            _      _                      -           -   606,0          -      -     606,0  0,05   0,66
D!iYng Eriuirment-UK                               LS       -5.0                                                                -5.0
Miscellaneous Tools-UK                            _S-    i6,0                                                                   -        -      -      16.0  0,05  0.63
Electrical Starters  I Cables-UK                  LS- -            -      -      -      -      -         - -           -        -   419.0        -    419.0  0.05  0.66
Weldins Esuinmert-UK                               No          -      -          1      -      I   27         -        -        -    27.0        -      27.0  0.05   9.55
Sub-Total CIITL WORKS RESIDENCY                                                                               22.0   625.0 1,329.0   782.0          -  2.757,0
2. GATES 0 HOIST RESIDENCY
Motile Crane (40-Torn-UK                           No       -             -      -             1  528         -   528,0         -         -      -    528.0  0.05  0.53
Mobile Coepressors-UK                              o N2                                        2   91         -   182.0         -         -      -    lS2.0  0.05  0.54
Sand Dlastins Eouinment-UK                        LS        -                   -    28.0                                  -         -      -      28.0  0.05  0.53
Mobkle Oil Purifier
(210 AnII-UK                                   No       -      1      -      -      -      I   52         -    52.0          -        -      -      52.0  0.05  0.67
Misc. Ecuipment-U                                  LS                           -    62.4    93.6                                        -      -    156.0  0.05  0.61
Sub-Total GATES 0 HOIST RESIDENCY                                                                                -   352,4    93,6           -      -    946,0
3, DRILLING AND GROUTING RESIDENCY
Air Coenressors w/ Accessories-UK                 No        3             2      -             5  103   309.0          -   20b.0          -      -    SiS.0  0.05  0.s5
Water Tank. Trucks-UK                             N         2      -      -                    2   70   140.0          -        -         -      -    140.0  0.05   C ,.5
Fork Lift Truck (3-Toni-UK                         No       1             -      -             1   63    63.0          -        -         -      -      63.0  0.05  0.56
Mobile Crane (18-Toni-Ut                           No       I                    -             1  3136   336,0         -         -        -      -    336.0  0.05  0.55
Mobile Crane (7-Ton)-UK                            No       1                -          -      1  205   205.0          -        -         -      -    205.0  0.05  0.73
Mobile Gantra Crane (3-Ton)-UK                     No       I      -      -                    I   16     16.0         -        -         -      -      16.0  0.05  0.56
Air Tools lHoses-UK                                LS                               38.0                        -        -         -      -      28.0  0.05  0.56
Generator (75 KW)-UK                               No       U             -             -      1   54    54.0          -        -         -      -      54.0  0.05  0.56
Pontoons (2-Toni-UK                                NoC)    10      1---210                  2       5    125.0         -        -         -      -     125.0  0.05   .5 6
Workshop Eauipeent-UK                             LSE -                                       -          Y180.8       -    4-.2          -      -    226.0  0.05  O,C .
Mobile Workshop-UK                                 Nc       -             1                    1   72         -        -    72.,          -      -      '2.0  0.05  0.56
millind Machine-UK                                 No       -      -      I      -             1   60         -        -    60.0          -      -      60.0  0.05  0.`7
Crauler Drill w/ Accessories-UK                    No          -          2             -      2205           -        -411.0             -      -    410.0  0.       Q
Air Conditioners Q2-TonI-UK                        No       -      -                    -      7    2         -        -    14.0          -      -       4.0  0.0  0t
Rubbaer Rot w! Outboard Ensine-UK                 o        -      -      1      -      _           7 ?            -          7.0         -      -       7.0  0.05  0, 
Consumable Materials-UP;                           L        -      -      -      -      -                 90.8   340.5   703.7            -      -  1,135.0  0.05  0.52
Sub-Total DRILLING AND GROUTING RESIDENCY                                                                 1,557.6   040.5 1,517.Q            -      -  3,416.0
-52-



PAIlSTAN                                                     ANNEX  3
RESERVOIR MAINTENAI:CE FACILITIES PROJECT                                        Table  4
TARBELA - EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                   Page 2
Detailed Cost Toble
(USS '000)
Duantitv                                            Base Costs                      Pho,
-----------------------------------Unit  --------------------------------------------- ont. For.
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total Cost  83/B4   84/85   85/86   86/87  8i7/B8  Total   Rate  Exch.
==== ===== ===== ===== ===== -===== ===== ==== ====,=== =====Z= ===== =_==-= ==:==  _==_=, ==e= =_===
4. WORKSHOP PAIlD MACHINERY RESIDENCY
IuIijpe's  35-Ton; WB                             No                    z                        48         -        -   9b0G0         -      -    Q60.0  '.J  3 ' 9
Loader fabout ' -n Cf-WE                          N0       -      -      1     -             1  40          -        -   4800          -      -    480.0 00.5  0. 5 
Barse Conivener Sasteri-Ut                        LS              -                       -              -                    -   800.0       -    2O.0  0.05  0537
Techriclc  c:brar-WB                              -5       -      -      -     -      -      -           50O0        -                        -      50,0 0.05 
Motor Groder-Uh                                   No       -      -      1     -             1  179         -        -   179.,         -      -    17,   0. 05  0.55
Recovera T-cv---WB                                No       i      1      -     -      -      2  122   122.0   122.0           -        -      -    244.0  i.05  0.54
Breakdown Trucks-WE                               No       -      1     -      -      -      1  225         -   225.0         -        -      -    225.0  '0.05  0.5'
Mobile Crarne  7-1.0 Ton-Ur;                      No              -      1     1      -      2  205         -        -   235.0   205.0        -    410,0  0.0510.54
Cosnoessors-UN                                    No       -      '     -      -      -      3   85         -   255.0         -        -      -    255.0  0.025  055
Generatcr,  (75 56)-UL-                           NO       -             -     -      -      1   54         -    54.0         -        -      -      54,0  0.05  0.56
Toosi S   Eou;rment-UK                                                                                      -   546.1   571.5   152.4         -  1,270.0  0.05  0.64
ComFute'-Ut.                                    SLS        -      -     -      -      -      -              -    '6.0         -        -      -            0  0,5  0 i.66
Treanins Center Emeu:ment-UN                      LS       -      -      -     -      -      -              -   196.0         -        -      -    1,.0  0.05  2.t6
Fcrklift Trucks (5 ton)-WE                        Nc       1      1     -      -      -      2   90    90.0    90.0           -               -    180.0  1.05  0.53
Sub-Total WORKSHOPS AND MACHINERY RESIDENCY                                                                262.0 (.564.1 2,395.5 1,057.4        -  5,379.f
5. GEOTECHNICAL RESIDENCY
Montcrrins Irst-umenrts-WB                       Lt        -       -       -                           402.0         -        -        -      -    402.0  0 305  0-35
Monitorins Ir,st'uentn
(Geclodical(-WE                               L                                          -           33.         -           -            -      33,7   0.05 0.65
Soil Testing EoLais2ent-WE                        LS       -      -     -      - -  -                   40,7    13.5          -        -      -      54.2  O.05  0, 65
Mcro Seismic Ecuieiment-WE,                      L         -     -      -      -      -      -              -   332,4         -        -      -    382.4   .05 0,.66
Sub-Total GEOTECHNICAL RESIDENCY                                                                           476.4   396.0         -        -      -    372,3
e, SURVEY RESIDENCY
MonF Reneer Osatee:-WE W                                         -             -      -      -         517.0         -        -        -      -    51.0  0.05  5.66
Derth Recordina Sai-B                             L        -     -      -      -      -      -         225.0         -        -        --              5. 0,35  3.60'
Side Scan Sonar EStuir-W                         No        2     -      -      -      -      2 165   3300            -        -        -      -    330.0  0.05 0.i6
Coee',vmiotiorn  Sstern-UK                       L         -     -      -         -          -              -   301.f         -        -      -    301.0  0.55  0.6
Laboratorv Si-B                                   *Su-                                -                  3           -        -        -      -      3.0 0.05.'  9.7
Slurnea EqLunP-WB                                  E.      -275,                                                    -        - 27-                275.0  3.05    357
Eoats with Petrol Enmine-UIJ                      No       4            -                    4    S    32.0          -        -        -      -      -2.0  0.05  5.t6
Generators (3  VARl-UK                           No        -                                 7    7    49                                            49.   0.05  0vi.66
Sneed Boat-U                                     No        1-                                7          49,f         -        -        -      -     49.0  0.05  '.'66
Microcommunicatico S.ste%-U                       LS                                                       -        -   608.0   912.0        -  1!520.0  0,5  0.66
Seisric Recorder-0iB                             No        1     -      -      -      -1' .9 *.                               _        _      -    119.0  0.35  0.56
Mobile Transceovers 1 Bonper Bastem-WB            is       -10 -                                      -       -      -                             120. -  -0   0.35  0,L7
Sub-Total SURVEY RESIDENCY                                                                              1,719.0   301.3 ..08.0  12.Y           -  3,04f.3
7. HYDROLOGY RESIDENC'y
Hadroloaicra Econp-WE                             LS       - - - - - -                                 211,0         -        -        -   -                      (AR
Meteorcloeical Eatin-WB                          LS        -            -          -         -          43.3         -        -        -      -     L3,3  3.25
Loboretor  Eoui-WE WPS-                                                                                  74          -        -        -      -, 4A
Sub-Tctal HYDROLOGY RESIDENCY                                                                             25.1.4        -        -        -      -    2o14
8. MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT
Hospitel Eouono,ent-U                             LS       -      --    -      -      -                         202.          -        -      -    232.5  005   r 5
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                                          4129j4 4,207,5 5. 24',U  2,351.4         - 17.'3802
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                         4-292,4 4.2?75 5,043.C 2,851.4           - 1.320.
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                            4,298,4 4,227,5 5.943,3 2.251.4          - 17,300.2
-53-



ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN                                                                   Table  5
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
TARBELA - VEHICLES AND SPARE PARTS
Detailed Cost Table
(USN '000'
Quantity                                                 Base Ca-ts                      Phs.
-----------------------------------                 ---------------------------------------------- Cant, Foa"
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total Unit Cost 83/84   84/85   85/86   86/i7   87/88  Total   Rate  Ex;c.
1, INVESTMENT COSTS
A, TRANSPORT RESIDENCY
1. TRUC,OS
Trucks (2-8 Ton)-UK                   No       -      -      -     7      7    14          40       -        -         -   280O0   280.0   560.0  0.05   0,5
Trucks ul Crane-UK Wc                          -      -      -      4     -      4         50       -        -         -   200.0         -   200.0  0.05   0.5
Tankers-UK                            No       -      -      -      4     -      4          75      -         -        -   300.0         -   300.0  0.05   0.5
Sarbaoe Trucks-UK                     No       -      -      -     -      4      4         55       -                  -        -   220.0   220.0  0.05   0.5
Sub-Total TRUCKS                                                                                        -        -        -   780.0   500.0 1280. 
2. BUSES 'VANS * AND CARS
Buses !52-Seater)-UK                  No       -      -      -     3      3      b      176.7       -        -        -   530.1   530.1 li060.2  0.05   0.5
Mini Buses (24-Seater)-UB             No       -      -      5     -      5    10          22       -        -   110 0        -   110.0   220.0  0.05   0.5
Vans (12-Seater3-WB                   No       -      -    10    10    10    30            19       -        -   190.0   190.0   190.0   570.0  0.05   0.5
Vans (4-6 Seater)-NB                  No       -      -    20    20       -    40          13       -        -   260.0   260.0          -   520.0  0.05   0,5
Sedan Cars-WB                         No       -      -      9     9      -    18          13       -        -   117.0   117.0          -   234,0  0.05   0 5
Pick-ups (4a4)-LB                     No       -      -      -     9      9    18          15       -        -        -   135.0   135.0   270.0  0.05   0.5
Pick-ups (4a23-vB                     No       -      -      -    12    12    24           12       -        -        -   144.0   144.0   288.0  0.05  0O5
4-wheel Drive-NB                      No       -      -      -     8      8    16          14       -        -        -   112.0   1l2.0   224.0  0.05   0.5
Sub-Total BUSES , VANS . AND CARS                                                                       -        -   677.0 1,488.1 lv221.1 3-3B6.2
3. MISCELLANEOUS VEHICLES
Ambulances-WB                         No       -      -     4      -             4         30       -        -   1210.0        -        -   120.0  0,05   0.5
Fire Engines-UK                       No       -      -     -      1      1      2        230       -        -        -   230.0   230.0   460.0  0.05   O.5
Sub-Total MISCELLANEOUS VEHICLES                                                                        -        -   120.0   230.0   230.0   580.0
Sub-Total TRANSPORT RESIDENCY                                                                              -        -   797.0 2,.498.1 1.951.1 5.246.2
B. SPARE PARTS
New Machinery Spares-NB                  LS       -      -      -      -      -     -29.4   195.8   332.9   225.2   195.1   979.0  0,05  0.s16
New Machinery Spares-UK                  LS       -      -             -      -     -              211.8   539.0   500.5   442.8   231.0 1,925.0  0.05  0.:-6
ExistinV Machinery Spares-NB             LS       -      -      -      -      -     -                   - 1l353.0         -        -        - 1,353.0  0.05  0.?
Gates S Hoist Spares-UK                  LS       -      -      -      -      -     -                   -   184.2   144.8          -        -   329.0  0.05  0.ol
Sub-Total SPARE PARTS                                                                                 241,1 2.272.0   978.1    667.9   426.8 4.586.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                    241.1 2,272.0 1,775.1 3,166.0 2,377.9 9,832.2
==Z= ===  == == = = == = = == == == = == == == = == = == = ==
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                       241.1 2!272.0 1775.1 3,166.0 2,377.9 9,S32.2
-54-



A^NNEX  3
PAKISTAN                                                                          Table  6
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT                                                             Page  1
Sumars Account bh  Tie
(US$ '000)
Base Costs                                       Foreign Exchange
Unit   Unit Cost No. of Units  83/84   84185    85/86    86/87   87/88   Total                             %      Amount
INVESTMENT COSTS
A. WORLD BANK
1. BUILDINGS
WORKSHOPS WB                                              ft2    0.01-0,02         82.860   443.3    563.9           -        -        -  1Y007,2                     0.0       0.O
WAREHOUSES WB                                             ft2    0.01-0.02         48-420    65,0    540.2           -        -        -    605.2                      0.3      3.0
TRAINING CENTER WE                                        ft2          0.02         3.500        -      70.0         -        -        -     70.0                     0.0       0.0
Sub-Total BUILDINGS                                                                             508.3  1,174.1           -       -        -  1,682.4                      0.0       0.0
Physical Contingencies                                                                   -    50.8    117.4          -        -        -    168.2                      0.0      5.0
Price Contingencies                                                                      -    47.1    2171                                  2 -  -    264.2            0.0      0.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                               606.2  1,508.6          -        -        -  2.114.8                      0.0       0.0
2. EQUIPMENT , MATERIALS , VEHICLES AND SPARE PARTS
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT WB                                 No.        90-720             14   212.0  1.447.0  29344.0   336.0           -  4.339.0                    56.6  2,455.3
GEOTECHNICAL EQUIPMENT WE                                 No.                            -   476.4    396.0          -        -        -    8'2.3                    65 4    570,0
SURVEY EQUIPMENT WB                                       No.       119-165             3 1l730,4          -         -        -        -  1730.4                     66.3  1,147.0
COMHUNICATION AND ELEC EQUIP WEB                          No.                           -   120.0          -         -        -        -    120.0                    67.0      90.4
VEHICLES WE                                               No.        12-260           161        -         -  1,057,0   950.0   691.0  2.706,0                       50,0  1,353.0
SPARE PARTS WB                                             LS                            -    29.4  1,548.0    332.9   225.2   195.0  2.332.0                        66.6  1,552.7
SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS WB                                  LS                           -    50.0          -         -        -       -      50.0                   100.0      50,0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT , MATERIALS , VEHICLES AND SPARE PARTS                                    2.61801  3.391.8  3,733.9 1,519.2  086.8 12,149.7                          59,3  7,209,1
Phasical Contingencies                                                                  -   130.9    169.6    186.7    76.0    44.3    607.5                         59.3    360.,
Price Contingencies                                                                     -   164.2    477.2    829.0   450.3   339.4  2y2680,                         57.3  1,299,6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                             2,913.2  4,038.5  4,750,4 2,053.4 1,270.6 15,026.1                         59,0  8-869,1
Taxes                                                                                   -   909.4  1.569.6  2,031.0   955.3   590.4  6.135.7                          0.0       0.0
Foreisn Exchange                                                                        - 1,Q13.6  2,457.9  2.719,3 1,098.1   680.2  8,869.1                          0.0       0.0
3. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE WE                                manmonth       10-35            16        -    235.0          -        -   175.0    410,0                     92,0    377.0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                       -    235.0         -        -   175,0    410.0                      92.0    377,0
Price Contingencies                                                                     -        -      32.2         -        -    64.3      96.5                    91.6      08.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                                    -    267.2         -        -   239,3    506.5                     91.9    465.4
Foreign Exchange                                                                        -        -    240.9          -        -   224.5    465.4                      0.0       0.0
4. TRAINING WB                                             manmonth    0.56-5            250   457.7    238.3           -        -        -    695.9                    04.0    590.0
Physical Contingencies                                                                  -    22.9       11.9         -        -       -      34.0                    84.      29.5
Price Contingencies                                                                     -    30.9       34.1         -        -       -      65.0                    03.1      54.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                               511.5    284.3          -        -        -    795.0                     84.6    673,6
Foreign Exchange                                                                        -   411.7    261.9           -        -       -    673.6                      0.0       0.0
Sub-Total WORLD BANK                                                                             3,584.1  5,039.1  3.733.9 1,519.2 1.061,8 14,938.0                         54.7  0,176.1
Physical Contingencies                                                                      -   204.6    298.9    186.7    76.0    44.3    810.5                        40.1    390.0
Price Contingencies                                                                         -   242.2    760.7    829.8   458.3   403.7  2.694.7                        53.5  1,442,1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                                4,030.9  6,098.7  4750.4 2,053.4 1,509.9 18,443.2                          54.3 10,000.1
Taxes                                                                                       -   909.4  1,569.6  2,031.0   955.3   590.4  6,135.7                         0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                            - 2f325.2  20960.8  20719,3 1,098.1   904.6 10?008.1                         0.0       1.0
-55-



AN.EX 3
PAKISTAN                                                                           Table  6
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT                                                              Page  2
Sumare Account ba Time
(US$ '000)
Dase Costs                                       Foreign Exchange
B. LUNITED  KINGDOM                                             Unit   Unit Cost No. of Units  B3/84   84/85    85/86    86/87   87/88   Total                              Z      mont
1. EQUIPMENT * MATERIALS   VEHICLES AND SPARE PARTS
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT UK                                 No.        16-528             24   951.0    914.0  1,964.0 1,032.0   336.0  5,197.0                         '6.9  2,955.6
SHOP EQUIPMENT UK                                         No.         52-85              6   180.8    853.1    748.7   152.4           -  1,935.0                     t2.9  1,217.6
COMMUNICATION AND ELEC EQUIP UK                           No.          7-54              9   102.0    355.0    608.0 1,331.0           -  2,397.0                     t5.5  1,571.2
MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT UK                                Na.        2-12.5             17   125.0    593.9    107.6          -        -    826.5                     t9.4    573.5
VEHICLES UK                                                LS         7-273            55   221.0          -    384.0 1,907.1 1,260.1  3,772.2                        '1.4  1,938.3
SPARE PARTS UK,                                            LS                            -   211.0    723.2    645.3   442.8   231.0  2,254.0                         e5.3  1,471.2
SUPF'LIES ANDi MATERIALS UK                                LS                            -   120.8    448.5  1,309.7          -        -  1,887.0                     '7.5  1,085.4
_ - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - -   - - - -   - - - - -        - - - - _- -__ _- --__ _- --__ _       _ _ _
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT , MATERIALS , VEHICLES AND SPARE PARTS                                    1,921,4  3,887.7  5,767.3 4,865,3 1,827.1 18,268.7                         '7.2 10,812.9
Physical Costingencies                                                                   -    96.1    194,4    288.4   243.3    91,4    913.4                         '9.2    540.6
Price Contingencies                                                                      -   120.2    549.6  1,281.7 1,467.6   699.3  4,118.4                         EB.4  2,406,4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                             2,137.6  4,631.7  7p337.3 6,576.1 2,617.8 23,300.6                         59.1 13,760.0
Taxes                                                                                   -   042.1  1,695.6  3,033.6 2,693.3 1,207.8  9,472.4                           3.o       0.0
Poreiss Exchanse                                                                         - 1,295.6  2,867.9  4,302.7 2,882.9 1,410.0 12,760.0                          2.0     *0.0
2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                   manionth       '-10             25    60.0    164.0           -             14.0    238.0                     90.0    190.4
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                   60.0    164.0          -        -    14.0    238.0                      81.0    190.4
Price Cantinsencies                                                                     -      3.9      23.1         -        -     5.2      32.2                    7.1.1     24.5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                                63.9    107.1          -        -    19.2    270.2                      79.5    214.9
Poreisn Exchanse                                                                        -    50.9    148.8           -        -    15.3    214.9                       0.0       0.0
Sub-Total UNITED KINGDOM                                                                         1,981.4  4,051.7  5,767.3 4,865.3 1,841.1 18,506.7                         59.5 11,003.3
Ph,sical Contingencies                                                                      -    96.1    194.4    288.4   243.3    91.4    913.4                         59.2    540.6
Price Contingencies                                                                         -   124.1    572.7  1,281.7 1,467.6   704.6  4,150.6                         50.6  2,430.9
_-- -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - -   - - - -   - - - - -        - - - - -   - - - - - - --_           _ _ _ _         _ _ .    _ _ _ _  
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                                2-201.5  4,818,8  7,337,3 6,576.1 2,637.0 23,570.8                         59.3 13,974.9
Taxes                                                                                       -   842.1  1,695.6  3,033.6 2,693.3 1,207.8  9,472.4                          6.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                                            - 1,346.4  3,016.7  4,303.7 3,882.9 1,425.3 13,974.9                          1).0      0.0
Total INCESTMENT COSTS                                                                              5,565.5  9,090.9  9,501.1 6,384.4 2,902.9 33,444.7                         57'.3 19,179.4
Phbsical Contingencies                                                                         -   300.7    493.2    475.1   219.2   135.7  1,724.0                         54.0    930.6
Price Continsencies                                                                            -   366.3  1,333.4  2,111.5 1,925.9 1,100.3  6,845.3                         So.6  3,873.0
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                                        6,232.4 10,917.5 12,087.7 0,629,5 4,146.9 42,014.0                        57'.1 23,983.0
Tax,es                                                                                         - 1,831.5  3,265.2  5,064.6 3,648.6 1,798.2 15,608.1                          0.0       0.0
Foreian Exchange                                                                               - 3,671.6  5,977.5  7,023.1 4,981.0 2,329.9 23,983.0                          0.0       0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                  5,565.5  9,090.9  9,501.1 6,384.4 2,902.9 33,444.7                        57'.3 19,179,4
Physical Continsencies                                                                          -   300.7    493.3    475.1   319.2   135.7  1,724.0                         51.0    930.6
Price Contingencies                                                                             -   366.3  1,333.4  2,111.5 1,925.9 1,108.3  6,045.3                         56.6  3,873.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                                   6,232.4 10,917.5 12,087.7 0,629.5 4,146.9 42,014.0                        57'.1 23,908.0
Taxes                                                                                           - 1,031.5  3,265.2  5,064,6 3,648.6 1,798.2 15,608.1                          0.0       0.0
Foreigrn Ex.banae                                                                               - 3,671.6  5,977.5  7,023.1 4,981.0 2,329.9 22,903.0                          i.O       0.0
56



ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN                                                Table  7
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT                                   Page  1
Summarv Account bg Project Comsonent
(US$ '000)
Physical
Contirlencies
TARBELA  MANGLA  CHASHMA  Total        Z   Amoount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. WORLD BANK
1. BUILDINGS
WORKSHOPS WB                                                        1,007.2        -        -  1,007.2  10.0   100.7
WAREHOUSES WB                                                         605.2        -        -    605.2  10.0    60.5
TRAINING CENTER WB                                                     70.0        -        -      70.0  10.0      7.0
Sub-Total BUILDINGS                                                    1,682.4        -        -  1,682.4  10.0   168.2
Physical Contingencies                                                168.2        -        -    168.2   0.0       0.0
Price Continsencies                                                   264.2        -        -    264.2   9.1    24.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                      2,114.8        -        -  2,114.8   9.1   192.3
2. EQUIPMENT, MATERIALS , VEHICLES AND SPARE PARTS
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT WB                                           3,437.0   902.0         -  4,339.0   5.0   217.0
GEOTECHNICAL EQUIPMENT WB                                             872.3                 -    872.3   5.0    43.6
SURVEY EQUIPMENT WB                                                 1,730.4        -        -  1,730.4   5.0    86.5
COMMUNICATION AND ELEC EQUIP WB                                       120.0        -        -    120.0   5.0       6.0
VEHICLES WB                                                         2y446.0   260.0         -  2,706.0   5.0   135.3
SPARE PARTS WB                                                      2,332.0        -        -  2,332.0   5.0   116.6
SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS WB                                              50.0        -        -     50.0   5.0       2.5
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT , MATERIALS , VEHICLES AND SPARE PARTS            10,987.7 1,162.0         - 12P149.7   5.0   607.5
Phvsical Contingencies                                                549.4    58.1         -    607.5   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                                 2,069,5   199.4         -  2,268.9   4.8   108.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                     13,606.6 1,419.5         - 15,026.1   4.8   715.5
Taxes                                                               5,437.5   698.2         -  6,135.7   4.8   292+2
Foreign Exchange                                                    8,147.8   721.3         -  8,869.1   4.8   422.3
3. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE WB                                               410.0        -        -    410.0   0.0       0.0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                           410.0        -        -    410.0   0.0       0.0
Price ContinSericies                                                   96.5        -        -     96.5   0.0       0.0
Sub-Total INCLUIIING CONTINGENCIES                                       506.5        -        -    506.5   0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                      465.4        -        -    465.4   0.0       0.0
4. TRAINING WB                                                           643.2    41.9    10.8    695.9   5.0    34.8
Physical Contingencies                                                 32.2      2.1      0.5      34.8   0.0      0.0
Price Contingericies                                                   61.1      3.0      0.9     65.0   4.8       3.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                        736.5    47.0    12.3    795.8   4.8    37.9
Foreisr Exchange                                                      634.6    33.4       5.6    673.6   4.8    32.1
Sub-Total WORLD BANK                                                     13,723.3 1i203.9    10.8 14,938.0   5.4   810.5
Physical Contingencies                                                   749.8    60.2       0.5    810.5   0.0       0.0
Price Continsencies                                                    2,491.4   202.4       0.9  2,694.7   5.0   135.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                        16,964.5 1,466.5    12.3 18.443.2   5.1   945.7
Taxes                                                                  5,437.5   698.2         -  6,135.7   4.8   292.2
Foreign Exchanse                                                       Q.247.8   754.7       5.6 10,008.1   4.5   454.4
-57-



ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN                                                Table  7
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT                                  Page  2
SuaarY  Account bi Project Coaponent
(US '000)
Physical
Contingencies
TARBELA  MANGLA  CHASHMA  Total        Z   Amount
B.  UNITED  KINGDOM
1. EQUIPMENT, MATERIALS, VEHICLES AND
SPAREPARTS
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT UK                                          3,897.0   78'.0   518.0  55197.0   5.0   259.8
SHOP EQUIPMENT UK                                                  1.935.0        -        -  11935.0   5.0    96,7
COMMUNICATION AND ELEC EQUIP UK                                    ',397.0        -        -  2l397.0   5.0   119.8
MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT UK                                           826.5        -        -    826.5   5.0    41.3
VEHICLES UK                                                        3i028.2    70.0   674.0  30772.2   5.0   188.6
SPARE PARTS UK                                                     2.254.0        -        -  2f-254.0   5.0   112.7
SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS UK                                          1,887.0        -        -  1,887.0   5.0    94.4
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT J MATERIALS , VEHICLES AND SPARE PARTS           16,224.7   852.0 1,192.0 18,268.7   5.0   913.4
Phvsical Contingencies                                               811.2    42.6    59.6    913.4   0.0         0,0
Price Continsencies                                                3,581.1   189.3   348.0  4,118.4   4.8   196.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    20,617.1 1,083.9 1,599.6 23,300.6   4.8 1,109.6
Taxes                                                              8?234.7   524.6   713.1  9.472.4   4.8   451.i
Foreisn Exchanse                                                  12,314.2   559.3   886.5 13,760,0   4.8   655.2
2' TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                 238.0        -        -    238.0   0.0       0.0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                          238.0        -        -    238.0   0.0       0.0
Price Continsencies                                                   32.2        -        -     32.2   0.0       0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDIING CONTINGENCIES                                      1270.2       -        -    270,2  0o0        0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                     "14.9        -        -    214.9   0.0       00O
Sub-Total UNITED KINGDOM                                                16,462,7   852.0 1.192.0 18.506,7   4.9   913.4
Phvsical Contingencies                                                  811.2    42,6    59.6    913.4   0,0         0.0
Price Contingencies                                                   3.613.3   189.3   348.0  4,150.6   4.7   196.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                       20,887.2 1Y083.9 1.599,6 23,570,8   4.7 1,109.6
Tax-es                                                                8,234.7   524.6   713.1  9,472.4   4,8   451,1
Foreign Excharne                                                     12,529.1   559.3   886,5 13y974+9   4.7   655.2
Totel INVESTMENT COSTS                                                      30,186b0 2,055.9 1,202.8 33,444.7   5.2 1.724.0
Physical Continsericies                                                  1,561.0   102.8    60,1  1,724,0   0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                                                      6,104.7   391,8   348.9  6,845.3   4.8   331.-
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                               37,851,7 2,550.5 1,611.8 42,014.0   4.9 2,055.2
Taxes                                                                   13.672.2 1.222.8   713.1 15,608.1   4.8   743,2
Foreisrn Exchange                                                       21,776.9 1,314.1   892.0 23,?83.0   4.6 1,109.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                         30,186.0 2,055.9 1,202.8 33,444.7   5.2 1,724+0
Phvsical Continsencies                                                     1.561.0   102.8    60.1  1.724.0   0.0        0,0
Price Contingencies                                                        6,104.7   391.8   348.9  6,845.3   4.8   331.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                          37,851.7 2Y550.5 IY611,8 42,014.0   4,9 2,055.2
======== ======= ======= ======== ===== =======
Taxes                                                                    13,672.2 1,222.8   713.1 15,608.1   4.8   743.2
Foreisn Exchanse                                                          21,776.9 1,314.1   892.0 23,983+0   4.6 1,109,7
-58-



ANNEX 3
Table 8
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR HAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Project CoeDonent b Tine
(USS '000)
Total
Base Costs                 ----------------
-----------------------------------------           (Rupees
83/84   84/85    85/86    86/B7   87/88   US$    Million)
TARBELA                    5,514.4  89369.2  7,718.1 6,017.4 2,566.9 30Y186.0   392.0
HANGLA                        41.1    720.8  1,294.0        -       -  2,055.9      26.7
CHASHMA                       10.0      0.8    489+0   367.0  336.0  1,202.8        15.6
Total BASELINE COSTS           5Y565.5 ?9090.9  9M501.1 6,384.4 2M02,9 33f444.7    434.3
Physical Contingencies        300.7   493.3   475.1   319.2  135.7  1,724.0         22.4
Price Contingencies           366+3  1,333.4  20111.5 1,925.? 1108.3  6,845.3      88.?
Total PROJECT COSTS            6,232.4 10,917.5 12,087+7 8,629.5 4,146.9 42,014.0   545.6
Taxes                       1,831.5  3,265.2  5,064.6 3Y648.6 1,798.2 15,608.1    202.7
Foreign Exchange            3,671.6  5,977.5  7,023.1 4,981.0 2,329.9 23Y983.0    311.5
-59-



ANNEX 3
Table 9
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR tlAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(US$ '000)             (Rs. Million)         Z of
=------------------------- ---------------------Foreign  X of Total
Local   Foreisn   Total   Local  Foreign Total  Exchange Base Costs
TARBELA                      12,729.9 17,456.1 30Y186.0  165.3   226.7  392.0         57.8         90.3
MANGLA                          996.2  1,059.8  2,055.9   12.9    13.8   26.7         51.5          6.1
CHASHNA                         539.2    663.6  1202.8    7.0        8.6   15.6      55.2          3.6
Total BASELINE COSTS             14,265.3 1?,179.4 33,444.7  185.3   249.1  434.3          57.3       100.0
Phssical Contingencies           793.4    930.6  1,724.0   10.3    12.1   22.4          54.0         5.2
Price Contingencies            2,972.3  3,873.0  6Y845.3   38.6    50.3   88.9          56.6        20.5
Total PROJECT COSTS              18,031.0 23f983.0 42,014.0  234.2   311.5  545.6          57.1       125.6
Februars 8 1983 13:36
-60-



ANNEX 3
Table 10
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Bank Loan
Amount
Allocated           % of
US$ M      Expenditures to be
Category                              Equivalent        Financed
Front End Fee                                0.15              100%
Buildings                                    0.75               35%
Equipment                                     7.00      100% of foreign ex-
Vehicles and Spares                                     penditures for
direct imports; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory); and 60%
for other locally
procured items.
Technical Assistance and Training            1.30             100%
Unallocated                                  1.00
Total                      10.20
- 61 -



ANNEX 3
Table 11
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
(US$ M Equivalent)
Bank/GOP Fiscal Year                                                  Cumulative
and Semester                           Disbursement               Disbur,sement
1983/84
1st                                          0.15                       0.15
2nd                                          1.10                       1.25
1984/85
lst                                          1.25                       2.50
2nd                                          1.50                       4.00
1985/86
1st                                          1.65                       5.65
2nd                                          1.50                       7.15
1986/87
1st                                          1.25                       8.40
2nd                                          0.50                       8.90
1987/88
1st                                          0.50                       9.40
2nd                                          0.40                       9.80
1988/89
1st                                          0.20                      10.00
2nd                                          0.20                      10.20
- 62 -



PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR BUl.LnEIoGC
co--ror      PAKISTAN                                                              P       R      T      E        F     B         G                                               RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE  FACILITIES
UIOCOIPEIs 00 0000  s e.   coo              083                                 84                                -85                               19-
New Workshops 2"AIA
12,060  ft                    LCB      2412   AC
Existing Shops Renova-
tion.   52,000  ft  2               LCB      520.0   2cco 
New Auto & Heavy Equip
Repair  Shop            2           LC       16. 
5,800  ft2              LB       11.           A
Existing  Auto  Shop RenoI                             I          CO                                                                                                                                 O
vat ion2                            LC       13 0                                                                                                                                                                                                  4
13,000  Ft  2TA LC                 10.    SV-S
New Warehouses   2                  LB 29                                                                                                   04                                                                                                                         4
12,100  ft                          4.
Existing  Warehouse                                    A     -
~N  Renovation                          LD       100 OOOO-                            - 
13,000  ft  2-A
Coveted  Parking   2
23,320  ft                LCB      29. 
Training Centert 2
0114.. EVELUC UF 05150015   rArT D    C               4`5-CJ17V lUflN0       000 05 IONO" D                                107I CONNTRUCTION 5ODCSUPLKSE                                        CBOPID  I
5S1ilI    1.C15505CIEI  00   00500 C1I IE0A5USESKUUUA00 0 51 Uor.NT                                                                            I,  -5S0CT1  S5sU50PL.ETELD OSIOPT
CDIS-.k_ IX 41     SF   5E55- 5-  CR050015  ICSUE    PU1S',Nr00   o0 C00                                                                                  0 SO     OFA
fl-Is-.:  or0,1 (.5LTAACTOE PELQUA1C5010  Q0ATA          SOEs loSSUtI                                                                                                                            ESALDATIOo  - -ECUL  S-CDTD-
13.1>3 L AI 100 KNOORE 555 SEISAD Nlol TIONN TO 050 004K  7 NANE ILEOOCK E OKCOIO,551105100S                                                                                                                                                                      555
(-._NA\  LL0LIAUNlL SE KECUIIIENDAIIUlose 0A0000 CONTrACT                                                                                                                                                                                                             (  ^



PnouHhrE1NT SCHFID Lt FOR TECHNICAL ASSISIANCE                                       RESERVOIR MAINTENANCF HACILITIES
-. PAKIS.TJ   .                                                                                                                ,    RSVO   M          E .cCL TI
83               '~~~~~ 84                   ~8'5                          '8 6                                                               l
'>-;0   ~1   T                                                                                                                                    . r                     cl-I01<X         i  
A.CtC-1                 6 7          .01.' -                            -i ic                                          iWc                       Iricu
Tec1cical Training                   60.0 key                            6 a   g. s  of                                    . 8   On o a
(Workshop)       6 mm  for                                       t                               9 .            e           r     t a r        m
Stores & Procurement         al 'Acl a                      o      rl                                   a    i   to Bn  for c r e
Org.Taniaion (Worksfhop)             60.ane                                                     10.  I i            i           -                    .
6 mm                                                                                Award contract.
Workshop Organikcarl  do 60.                                                                    13   S .omne
Maintenance Managemenot              60.0                                                       14.                                   j c pt
& Records        6 mm                          _                                  _w.i.j-
Engineering Inspection              350.0   ~c                    dD                                                                       
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   10    mm   -                                          J                              -   .  .  i      r,  
Deep Divers Inspection               28.0 c.cc                 1    dI{i           f_1
_  _       ~~2 mm                      1.        -.4
Project Commnnfaica                 300 ;Dt-.A I                           v.                         .         -       * 
1.  Initiate preparation of key objectives and general scope of assignment.                      B.  Open proposals.
2.  T,ransmit to Rank for clearance.                                                             9.  Transmit evaluation report and recommend-
3.  Initiate preparation and governmental clearance of short list.                                     ations to Sank for clearance.
4.  Transmit to Bank for clearance.                                                            10.  Initiate negotiations. 
5.  lnitiate prepara tion of; terms of refereance, coat estimate, selection                     11.  Submit contract documents as  negotiated 
proc edur es and evaluation criteria, mod letter of invitation for                               to Bank for clearance.
proposala.                                                                              12.  Award contract.
6.  Transmi   toBank for clearance.                                                            13.  Services commesece.
7.  Issuemltettter of inovitation.                                                             14.  Services completed.



PAKISTAN                         ~~~~~~~~PROCUREMENT SCHEELILE FOR IRAINING                                          .a      RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES
Au~~~Oo                    ARS~~8           ~84                                       85                          86                           87                         u1 88
20.0 
Workshop Technology100ATIAL                                                                                                                                                                               HK
Stores Management  2 mm                               -j
Auto Repair Quality                     15.0APSIA-
Control                3mm                    RVSs -- 
Computer Programming &                 30.0   PAIAI                                                                      Ii        u        i     . t1            -      i11
Key Punch Operatming                           EOSDIlj 4                                                                       C -- 1                    --
6mm      _AC*
45.0APAIA 
Work,shop Equipment9m                                 -+                               I      $         l    i l4 !I
Heavy Equipment                       120.0    ID                                                                                                              -                                          i
Workshop Safety        2 mm                    EID1tTi
Specialized Drilling                   4.    PRIA
C routing           9 mm                    $DA        
Echo Sounder Operation                  15     -UDSS 
3 mm                  jACTAL 
15.0  APDDSA  -
Stereo-Plotter                                  oe -
Operation              3 mm                   CoL
/1 Total Base Cost
IS



PROCURLttENT SCHtDULL FOR TRAINING
cocs.m _ PAKISTAN    . . .                                                                                                                   RESERVOIR MAIN'I'ENANCE FACILITIES
9  *fffT,< V 5f         ,OO _F_ --r-                     '983           -84                                     985                           86                       i 87                        988
OOf,f9                        _ I  __       ..:              9<.. -         1 f9,__f |ONT  | |          S                      K-   T:
CiTno1mm    30.0  Of O9                                 4                      1         -}
Sontnar nceuipme         m
Hydrology             9 mm            45.0  .9~ffff999~          I                                    74                                                                                                           Ii
St,dy Toor            3mm             65.0  .... C s t
90.0                                                                                                                                                               f 4Of,,, I-  I    4f  -  I41 41  14,
Civil Technology  18 mm                      :o                                                                                ~~ 
Po,nfdt  and Neat                             VSE                                 1j '          I      f1 1t4                                                                                      1     11
Treatme nt           lS mm                   Cfl                                       4=. i
4.0  9f  s     ~1'1'                                                             '
Projert Management          ____       0            -                                                   ~l
4 mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ljl4I171
Middle Manfagement2mm1.-                                                                                          I    ' 1            I IfI
Conpoter Operation,                                  -           1 41c-                                                          F                          p1 .
Machine Shop         16 mm             33-                                I 
Diagnostics, Repa ir &                20.2                                   _________
Naintenanco         36 mm
/1  Total Base Cost.                                                                                                                                                                           99



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
I.  TARBEI.A
1. Civil_Works
ReI id-cy                                     ACACM                                                                                                                                   OL
Mobile  Cranes,-TA
1S-TonL                     LISt
2C-mpress,rs, 650
Drills  and, Sirs                        105.0  OsosEo
PuImps, Motras  aed                               AA
o ~  Pontoons                            '1   356 .0                                                                                         4-: -
2. Workshops aod
Macinry  Residecy
2Dumplers,, 35 Toe,           ICB    960.0   REslO-
1Loader, 7 co.yd.              C      480 . 0    op
SEOOAIJFO -T-O  A506                                                     EOCRSSN    CIN
A-INITIATFrEPAIPASTIONOF PREOsLAiPiCOT,ON DOCUM6NTC                           INCS OCCPEPO(RAT ONOfOSFECIPICAC,505 ANO550 DOOCLMENOTS            9 N 115L 55.IVtPY OAT. SIT                '5150555 ONAL
AND EOALUATION CRITERI                                                      T_ANNSMIT STC.IF.CATI-NSoN  SIC 8 OC--EN-S TO                     IC .55500 DEI IVeRIE A s                      COOPE'.T Vt SIDDING
S-T_ANWITS"M ENT S   IATO ISOA                                                 O- CLEA-N-CS  OFPeCIFICATION A5  IO OOCCIMENTO                   ,, FINCL DELIVeRV AT CE                   -CS  OCAs COMFFT T-IVE
C-1SA CSARANCE OP MOCUMESTS.AND CR1151A                                     4        -TA(t INV ITOIONTD SID                                                                                   C ODIND
0-L"USt IO-ALIPICAION NO-ICE                                                5 OPEN0100                                                                                                     Ps      N SI-O I`INL
_ -SC0SIPT OFUTSA5005 PSEO.ALIFICACION DATA                                 b TCANSMITPEVCTION  ORTOAC AAR RE5 OMMENDATI'NSTO CA                                                          LCO C,CCATION
'-ThA.WlT TOAL ASION SEPO0T AND -EOMMENOATiONS TO ICA "A CIL EARNCe OF RECCOCtNOAT ONS
G-IDACUARANE OF REOOMM-SPATIONS                                             S AWARO CONTR ACT                                                                                                                                                                 HIT
/I   Total Base Cost.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0Ir



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR  MAINTENANCE  FACILITIES  PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
z~~~~~~N                              p- . . . UF   _15W                                                                                                                                       .~,1               ~ I-1~
-ANDIT                                                                                A                                                                          7-1i
PROCoST ROSA  -    A 0 >0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y    
'~~~~~~RS 'S10 _-: i t4 SSS 00T
APSDOIA~~~~44  i 4
Toohoical A ibrO ry                 PS         300                                    ATVSAFA- {
2 Rerooery  Ttock6                 ICE       244.   -ECO-                   7              1      8
2Fork  lift  Tr-rks,                        1800  DA-P
5-Top,                                             ACOAT-     -
APPOAIOAL                                                        4
Breakdowoo  TrLIck                           225.0 H 055           -- 
-U- TL-          -.                              L                              *         i4_                    -            4    -
oT  3. Geotechnicol ilool.-                                                    -          F4 4-I
AND ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~RIE -VL^TO CRTEI                    >1   IS FNI^ seIF ICTFN -N 81D OOUETOIAl  NEI  elERe  TsT                                                                oP         IDN
APRTA-SO             -            1+4-                                                     
Monlt-riop  Inotroroet,t    ICB              402.01 SEAIAD            -T
M'ot,itoriog  Itrm to                0         33.7  aEIEC- 
Soil Testiog  Equipo,et             5I 4.2 REIL  LL ----        
Micro  Seismic  Eqoip-                                APPTOAL IA                                                       7 Ft
mont~~~~~~~~~32  REVSO                                      -   - -  - 
PREHALIPCDODUAOIAN                                                      'HCHEAIT'  IAA           I""A" ACTIONS1I                                                                             -1T Al-
C_ISA CLEARAP OFWCAUMENTSANDCRITERIA                                          4 ITT__ INVITATION  TO SIC                                                                                           .IDDING
D-TSSAr AR- -AALI_CATIDN SATIRE                                               0 OPEN RIDS                                                                                                      PA -PRUDENT STOPPING
E-RDECIPT OF CONTRACTOR -RESADLIRICATION DATA                                 I IOANSAIT A VOIUAT IAN ARPOAT A:D AWARD .ECOHOTNDAON5 TO IRA                                                   ISA NeDOTIA>IOS
r-TRADNST EO.L.ATIDN REPORT AND -E..M.E.DATI-SS TA IDA                          -Il-A CLIAANCE IT RCUMRENAAT TNT
A-ISAALEARDARTeF REDAUUEPDATIRSS                                              P AWARDCAA     A P0l10011
ID I- -
/1   Total Base  Cost.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            p     .



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR  MAINTENANCE  FACILITIES  PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
AN         OUCTR  N     COS    -R oiC
s$1 0  _ _ ____            _          Y       LO..C         OAR..  -.98O98-.
4. Survey,  Reolde-c,2                                                                                                                                                   3    S S        JT      7     ~       ~                                            
TmiY             SyarelY    ItS   517.0 --`1 -                                                                                                                                                                  0 T
C - D - ; r <5   ! S !R^ iH S~~~~~ 3A                     ~                   7 -8                               I ^ ;04;;xl+                                                             ls8Xt-
D,pti' REc-dirlg
r3         6  4                                3       4 
2 Side  ScLII 'SnaYr            _____                PTT AO
Equip-ent                          U        10.  Iocr44
T.ab,ratrI,-  EquSpIY-tY         P.STVIN 
Surveyv I,j I   peiC,TI t         [CE      27  5.0                                4                                                 4
SCI CY,icC  Recorder                        11 9 5
TC,TTIcT I' v i   r'EY
CII   SLpor  STCOC120.0                                             _
A-1.1-TE -F -A-N .1                                                                       --E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
A_ INITIAETD YP,ARATIAN OFRE PTOALIR ICAT ION DUCUMENTTA                       IN ITIATFNVFNTATAR YAT lN OFC IF CAT,YNSAN 00 NECI UCYIACLUTS        A R4ITIAL DCE.ICEST ATAiTR                CR.-IATENNNT AONA L
ANO EVALUATIDN CRITeRIA                                                     CYYAAONIT ARNCITCoICI.A lON.. AN, C OYCRENYT TY ICC                 10  NNTEIMORE LICVERIE AT YeTE                  CORRR' lTIVt blDDING
E-TDANNITRNOCCAENTS ANDNCRTRIElATY O                     IDA                    CCOLEAOANCT Y OFPTFCFIRCATIOR. ANY R}D UOCLIRENTS                  1 1 ANF  CNA LICEN ATNSITR                 .CR- LOCALACOATTTITCRE
C-IRACLNARANCE OF GAOENTSN AND ARITERIA                                       A ISSLIR INVITAIICN TO A- A                                                                                         EA,AINO
N-ISSAE PNRAAALIRIAARIAN NOTICER                                              CFS Y ERIDSbT FS FRADET STl)RTIN,
N-ERRCITT AR CANTRASTAR FREMAALIRIYATION COCA                                I- ITAI.ARIT CYTI oMTIOT ONTORT AND 00000 ORCYOl,MROAC  ANS CITO ICANRA NNOT1AC OU.
F-TRES0AITEAALAATIOA REPORT ANA RiCOMMDNOATIONE TO IDA                        7        ICA CONAN TANCYOFNRNO ATIYNN
A-IDATCLEARANCEO l DEaMsNReAGATIONN                                           A AAACI11.1,I NYC                                                                                                                                                               G'  IJD
/1 Total Bseo Coot



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
DEEDRIPFlcAToCIDNS DRocuR N ITOS OFTD CFDFSE
OTDD                   PENT
5.  Hydrology  Residency                                REVISE
Nydrological  EquipisenL    ICE                211.0 RVSC         -      - 
Meteorological Equip- -                                REVIED .        -
ment             4O.O                       NP-FLDC9                                                                                                                   AIA
Laboratory  Equipment               PS            7 4DEID
6. Vehicles
10 Mini BsUeDV     24-seat~ ICE               220.0A
AhO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~C- -VLATO  -RTel                                                                                                                                                                               - TR:SI  -FCFCAIN  -N  -- DUST  oIA1  :EIJDelelsA  lerM   ION
30  Vans,  12  seaLs                          57joC      IAED             -- -
40  VaIns, 4-6  sests                          50C                          _-
IS  Sedan  carso                                 4      -1
PPOLIE--TIN ACTINS                                                           ED      A~EEIT-ODII                                                                                                DETO...   DVIED
A-INIR-TEPR-PDRDTIOS OP PAOIEDVD.0DCUENTS                                          1.110  DEDVO  V  EVTCDVD01 RIO....CIO                                 S  11,0T-VDVOC                            IV- TE.NUT,I-O,
AND E-ALOATI-NCR-TERI                                                         ST_USDTE_'EVI1 AO 15011 DIOO-NTVTD O                                    IV :1T1. 1.1Db    L=VEIA 1T 0 VTETT.L  000-
_-TRASIT E OOUENTS AND RITERI-AO 0.                                            3 I-U CLUODUNCE VE sPecATlDN ANe RIO DVDCUMNTS                          I I F IhA,  OTIIV1DV AT -111                 05- LUVALCODEEDIT TI
c_l-A CLEA.A..CE DFDOCUIMENTSENDCDITERIA                                        U IDDI         - -I1VITIUV  VV 01I                                                                                      BIDOING
D-lSDur IE...ALOIC-TIDN NOTICE                                                      _ OPEN RIDS                                                                                                     FS     eT
E-OECUDPT DE COSTROCTOS PRNEOUALIFICATIDN DATA                                  G 100110010 EVOLVUT VIO TEEVORTD  AWAONODO RECOMMSENDATIDNS TD IOU                                                  E   eoTAro
F-TDANEMIT EDALUATION REPORT 0ND SUCDRRENDUTIONR TO IOA                         I 1110 OLCOTONVE OrDF EVVODEIDT IDhIS
G_IDA CLEARANCE DR 0000R-DNDUTIDDD                                               SVAODUCONTRACT                                                                                                                                                                             ,
/1   Total Base  Cost.                                                                                                                                                                                                        r



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
COUT.TR1                                                                                                                   P1O988T
A-~~ ~ _ _   _- I                                                                                                                                _.~ I -.I -l                                      .
DE F SRRIOVTIAT. OS ITE IMP OF           ETONSTIEI OCMETST IMA0TEDEI OLIEIE A  IT                                                                                                                CME.T EE DDN
-TA lTDCST AND               PROCUREI TOD IG                           I IA  CLANC OfSEIFCTO ANEI DCIIET                                       I   IA  EleVA  le                            C3 OA  OPTT
CIACEFAU*NTIDFOOUNT   D          MRI ENT                                 4 -...ROA  INVIOTOATO   ATOP-              O E ID                                                                       IDDIN;3
18  Pick-ups,  4 x  4              ICE      270.0                                                                                                                                                 PLE-SRO
E COlP D OITRGTn SEULIICTIN  AT                                     TANMI eAUAIO  RPOT N AAR HCUMNDTINSTOA- AL                                                                             4OTATO
t-TRAWlT VALUAION EFO^TAND  ECDISENDTIOAXTO I A    L                                                                                                                                                          4-D   ERNEO RIOM    TIN
24  Pick-ups, 4 3 x                  I       288.0   EE
16  4-Wheel Drive                             o 2t24.        
4 Amibulances                                120,0TTSS                  
7.Spr Pas
New  Machinery  Spares              and       979.0   .E.ICEs
ExIstin/g Machinery                 IC
Spares                              and      1353.0
PREQUALIIOATIRN  CTIONS                                             PTC1R2DATO sCTIO4
0-LAISE -E-SEOAC-IATDM   ATC                                                       SPED D CIETPT-PEOT...T TTOP-EI.EI
S-E-IPPADTS-ARTRRPEATLIIAT   DT                                               TTTT-UITOTLATIOT. A T      -OT  ~0155 --00  ODT.MST,OOT O TTNE  RUOIR
P-TAN IT DACAAINEPORTaND  -ED- E-AA-I-STO-IDA                                  I TT -LE-TUTCAlTE TDITMTNO-TIT-
A-IACLEARANCEA.0 CUAEEAIN                                                        TATOE -TAT-TOTTO
._-. ~~~~~~E.UALIIICATIO. NOTICE  o" . .-                                                                                          11 4-1-  -1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  - 
/1 Total Base Cost.
/2 For general spares ICB and for special spares PS.
/3 Procurement actions for spares would be taken simultaneously with correspondiTTg new equipment and vehicles.



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
COUN-FO                                                                                                                                                             FEOSCI
DTEVNIFTIVN OF ITEM  or erluM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
|-. MANGLA
Truck mounted Crane,                   -=              -
110-Ton                         ICB    720.0 A_
Low-Sad  Trailer, 40-Tn                    260.0   -EISD
FNEOUALITIVATIMN ACTIOCES                                                    TTACUDDUENT ACTIONS                                                                                          METHOD OF FTOCA,ADON1
A-INITIATE FNEPMRATIVN OF PIEEOIIIFICMTION OOCAMEhTS                         I INITIATE FREEATATION OF NPECIFICVTIOSSANHJ FIT GOCUMENTS          F INITIAL VEIIVETO Al SITE               ICE-ISTEENATIII.AI
BTANCEAU.ITMOC "S AEE oENCNITEEIA TOIDA                                    a TIVALAANS FCE OF TPEC,FSICATION ANO SoDVOCUDENOS                   I I FINAL OELIVDTYESAT31TE               LCC -IOCAICADFETllI e
C_IDA CLJEANAPHO OF OOCE,MENTS ANO CRITERIA                                  4 ISSAD INOIFATIVN rO DID                                                                                        EIOVINA
O--WOVE P*EOMALIFICATION NOTICE                                              E AFTN dIME                                                                                                   FS-FUDHNTSTAGFFINt.
ESN_MEClpTOFSON~TNATMFE REPORAML,FCOTION  ATAOET                             DTH NITDA ALEARATIO DFETOMMT DANIO AWTS EAMNAIN  AI                                                          NSA SNEOTIAlION                                             3  
G_IDMCLEAANMNE OF RECOMMENEATIONS                                            D AWAADOCONTTAA T                                                                                                                                                       3    II
A   -lx
/1-Total   OSe  CosT-L
A-I ToalBseC0t



ANNEX 5
Page I
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Technical Assistance Terms of Reference
Technical Training (6 manmonths)
Objective:
To increase the skill and effectiveness of O&M personnel, to provide
replacements and to aid in institution building.
Scope of Work:
A. Review and evaluate existing training programs, training
material, training facilities for O&M personnel, and
training effectiveness.
B. Recommend, in some detail, the aspects and scope of an
appropriate progressive and effective training program for
O&M personnel.
C. Recommend design and layout of an O&M training center.
D. Recommend equipment, training facilities and training aids
for the training center.
E. Make recommendations on organization, management, operation
and staffing of the training center.
F. Recommend courses and course content and length.
G. Prepare a report on A-E above.
H. Review progress and provide assistance as training center is
established.
I. Provide training to local senior trainers to impart skill and
knowledge in the field of technical training.
Stores and Procurement Organization and Management (6 manmonths)
Objective:
To attain more efficient, economic and responsive operation of pro-
curement processes and stores.
-73-



ANNEX 5
Page  2
Scope of Work:
A. Review and evaluate existing procurement procedures and
stores layouts and operations including present organi-
zation and staffing.
B. Review present security and safety provisions.
C. Review record keeping and inventory control procedures and
recommend needed changes considering possible use of new
systems, including computers. Existing accounting and audit
requirements of GOP should be considered.
D.  Prepare a report, in some detail, based on A-C above, recom-
mending the aspects and scope of an appropriate and effective
stores and procurement program for O&M.
E. Review progress and provide assistance and training in imple-
menting the approved changes.
F. Provide training to local senior trainers to impart skill and
knowledge in the field of stores and procurement organization
and management.
Workshops Organization and Management
Objective:
To increase the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of workshops
management and operation.
Scope of Work:
A. Review and evaluate existing management, operation and lo-
cation layout and staffing of existing workshops.
B.  Review existing equipment, tools and supplies.
C. Review work control and inventory and tool control procedures.
D.  Review existing apprentice training and craftsmen certifi-
cation programs.
-74-



ANNEX 5
Page 3
E. Prepare a report, in some detail, based on A-D above, recom-
mending an appropriate and effective workshops layout and
management and work control program for O&M.
F. Advise on installation and test operation of new workshop
machinery.
G. Train workshops supervisors in workshop management, operation
and maintenance.
H.  Provide training to local senior trainees to impart skill and
knowledge in the field of workshops organization and management.
Maintenance Management and Records (6 man months)
Objective:
To increase the effectiveness, efficiency, economy and reliability of
maintenance programs for facilities, equipment and facilities.
Scope of Work:
A. Review and evaluate the existing maintenance management and
maintenance record keeping systems.
B. Review and evaluate existing preventive maintenance schedules,
control, effectiveness and follow-up procedures.
C. Prepare a report, in some detail, based on A-B above, recom-
mending an appropriate and effective maintenance management
and record keeping system which sets forth, inter alia, clear
schedules, controls, responsibility and checks on work done.
D. Review progress and provide assistance and training in imple-
menting the system approved by WAPDA.
E. Provide training to local senior trainers to impart skill
and knowledge in the field of maintenance management and
records.
Engineering Inspections (10 manmonths)
Objective:
To assure the safety and continued effective performance of project
facilities.
-75-



ANNEX 5
Scope of Work:
A. Provide special technical assistance to teams making the
first (1983/84) and second (1987) safety inspections of
Tarbela facilities (paras 2.09 and 2.10).
Deep Diver Services for Inspections (4 manmonths)
Objective:
To assure that all underwater facilities are inspected to guarantee
the safety and continued effective performance of project facilities.
Scope of Work:
A.  Make underwater inspection of facilities as directed by teams
making the first (1983/84) and second (1987) safety inspections
of Tarbela Project facilities (paras 2.09 and 2.10).
Communications
Objective:
To improve communications facilities and procedures to increase relia-
bility, work efficiency and economy and to enable quick response where project
and human safety is involved.
Scope of Work:
A. Review and evaluate existing communication facilities in-
cluding both facilities within the projects and those for
communication to and from the projects.
B. Prepare a report, in some detail, recommending an appropriate
reliable and effective system for projects Operation and Main-
tenance together with recommended equipment.
C. Assist as necessary in procuring, installing and testing the
system approved by WAPDA.
D. Provide training to supervisors and recommend training programs
in the use of the communication systems.
-76-



ANNEX 6
Table 1
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Training and Study Tour Needs - Foreign 1/
Description of                                  Manmonths      Costs in
Needed Training               Trainees          FY84  FY85       US$
1.  Workshop Technology            1 Engineer           4      -      20,000
2.  Stores Management              1 Engineer           2      -      10,000
3.  Auto Repair Quality Control   1 Engineer            3      -      15,000
4.  Computer System Application   1 Engineer            2      -      10,000
and Operation                  2 Technicians        4     -       20,000
5.  Workshop Equipment             2 Engineers          5      -      25,000
2 Technicians        4     -      20,000
6.  Heavy Equipment Overhaul       2 Engineers          -      8      40,000
4 Technicians             16      80,000
7.  Workshops Safety               1 Engineer           2      -      10,000
8.  Drilling & Grouting Tech.      3 Engineers          3      6      45,000
9.  Echo Sounder Training          1 Engineer           3      -      15,000
10. Stereo Survey Training         1 Engineer           3      -      15,000
11. Sonar Training                 1 Engineer           3      -      15,000
1 Technician         3     -      15,000
12. Civil Technology               6 Engineers          9      9      90,000
13. Hydrology                      3 Engineers          6      3      45,000
14. Study Tours                    6 Engineers         11      2      65,000
Total                     30 Engineers        59    28      555,000
9 Technicians      13    16
I/ Details of specific course content, location of training and arrangements
for training and study tours would be developed by Harza Engineers,
general consultants to WAPDA, as a continuation of on-going training
program (para 3.13).
-77-



ANNEX 6
Table 2
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Training Needs - Courses to be Given in Pakistan 1/2/
Description of                                   Manmonths       Costs in
Needed Training                Trainees           FY83  FY84       US$
1.  Project Management              4 Engineers            -    6          4,900
2.  Senior Management                9 Engineers          18    -         14,900
3.  Middle Management                16 Engineers         32    -         26,500
4.  Computer Operation              2 Engineers            4    -          3,300
4 Technicians         8    -          6,700
5.  Machine Shop Practice           2 Engineers            -    4          3,300
6 Technicians         -   12         10,000
6.  Equipment Diagnostic            5 Engineers           14    -          7,800
and Repair                    8 Technicians         24    -        13,500
7.  Foundry and Heat Treatment    2 Engineers              6    -          5,000
4 Technicians        12   _
Total                    40 Engineers          74   10        105,000
22 Technicians        44   12
1/ Training courses would be given at WAPDA facilities including the
Training Center to be provided by the proposed project (para 3.08).
2/ Additional related and complimenting training, particularly to supervisors;
and technicians, would be provided under the proposed technical assistance
program (para 3.10).
-78-



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Implementation Schedule 1/
FY84             FY85              FY86               FY87              FY88
Ist 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th
1.  Buildings (para 3.07-3.08)
2. Technical Assistance (para 3.10)
Technical Training
Stores and Procurement Organization
and Management
Workshops Organization and
Management
Maintenance Management and Records
Communications
Engineering Inspections
Deep Diver Services for
Inspections
3. Training (para 3.13)
Foreign Training
Training in Pakistan                                                              Continue as on-going non-project WAPDA program.
4. Submission of Evaluation Program
by WAPDA (para 4.03)
5. Submission of Progress Reports
by O&M Organizations (para 4.02)
6. Submission of Annual Progress
Reports and Project Evaluation
Report by WAPDA (para 4.03)                                     _                 _
1/ For procurement schedules, see ANNEX 4.



ANNEX 8
Table I
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Prices Used For Economic Analysis 9/
(In Constant Mid-FY83 Currency Units)
Unit         1975-76  1979-80  1982-83  1989-90  1994-95
Agriculture
Wheat Grain 1/2/    Rs/ton         3,255    2,503    2,320    2,031    2,019
Wheat Straw 3/       Rs/ton           148      148       148       148      148
Human Labor 3/       Rs/manday      13.5      15.4      17.2      19.4     20.3
Bullock Labor 3/4/  Rs/pairday    16.8        19.8      21.1     23.6      25.7
Wheat Seed 5/        Rs/kg          3.42      2.63      2.44     2.13      2.12
Fertilizer 6/
N 1/7/         Rs/kg          7.65      6.81     6.34      8.74      9.24
P _/8/         Rs/kg          7.57     5.90      5.77      6.96      7.08
Power
Residual Oil 1/ 9/ 10/ Rs/ton        1,551    2,231    2,736    3,143    3,478
1/  Economic prices of internationally traded commodities based on Bank
commodity price forecasts of July 1982.
2/  Import-based price assumed through 1984-85.  Over next five-year period,
linear transition made to export-based price.
3/  Local prices converted into border rupees through Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) of 0.90.
4/  Excludes driver.
5/  5% premium assumed above wheat grain price.
6/  On kg of nutrient basis.
7/  Based on Urea with 46% analysis.
8/ Based on TSP wth 46% analysis.
9/ Details of calculations of farmgate/thermal plant site prices available
in Project File.
10/ C.i.f. Karachi price adjusted for internal transport and handling to
Lahore, the assumed load center for a thermal alternative to Tarbela.
-80-



ANNEX 8
Table 2
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Irrigated Rabi Wheat Input/Output Assumptions
(Per Hectare Basis)
Unit    1975-76  1979-80  1982-83  1989-90  1994-95
Outputs
Grain 1/           kg        1,526    1,720    1,924    2,500    3,000
Straw 2/           kg        1,663    1,875    2,097    2,725    3,270
Inputs
Human Labor 3/4/  mandays   45.5        45.3     44.9      45.0      46.0
Bullock Labor    pairdays   15.0        15.2     15.4      16.0      16.5
Seed               kg         92.0      92.0     92.0      92.0      92.0
Fertilizer 5/
N             kg           55       60        65        80       100
P             kg           15        18       21        30        40
1/ 1975/76-1979/80 actual Punjab-Sind/Baluchistan weighted average yields from within
Tarbela canal commands. Weighted averaging based on CCA's in Punjab and
Sind/Baluchistan within the Tarbela canal command system. Source: WAPDA,
Tarbela Dam Project Post-Project Monitoring Irrigation and Agricultural Data,
Lahore, June 1979.
2/ Straw yield assumed at 109% of grain yield. Source: Agricultural Credit Division,
Muslim Commercial Bank Ltd, Crops of Pakistan, Karachi, 1980, p. 186.
3/ Reductions in human labor requirements represent net result of reduced weeding labor
requirements with increased shade effect with higher yields and increased labor
requirements for winnowing and threshing activities.
4/ Includes bullock drivers.
5/ On nutrient basis.
-81-



ANNEM 9
PARISTAN                                                                    Tahbe 3
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Tarbela: Incremental Irrigatior Water Supplies and Incremental Rab  Cropped Area
1970-71/                                                                     1981-82
1974-75                                                                       thro
Unit  Average 1/  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79           1979-80    1980-81  1996-97  1998-99  2008-09   201t-17
Oct/Nov Releases at Tarbela Don 2/             MAF    3.644          3.975   5.788        7.649      6.656      6.642      6.666       6.680    6.416      5.099   4.045
Oct/Nov Releases at Canal Head 3/             MAP    3.097           3.379   4.920       6.502       5.658      5.646      5.666       5.678    5.454      4.334    3.42.8
Escapages 41                                  MAF    0.187           0.225   0.981       0.375       1.311      0.102      0.332      0.483    0.464    0.368   0.2S2
Net Avallabilities                                  2.910          3.154   3.929       6.127       4.347      5.544      5.354      5.195     4.990      3.966   3.146
Incremental Net Availabilities 5/           MAF                    0.244    1.019      3.217      1.437       2.634      2.444      2.285    2.080       1.056   0.235
Predicted Rabi Cropped Area in Total
Tarbela Canol Coenand Systen with Base
Surface Water Sopplies (Pre-Tarbela)
and with Incremental Net Availabilities
fron Tarbela 6/7/                          '000 ar   6,058.0    6,196.2   6,628.0   7,806.2   6,857.6   7,500.0   7,399.3   7,314.7  7,205.1  6,648.8 6,191.7
(6,853.2)
,stimated Incremental Rabi Cropped
Area fron Tarbela Net Incremental
Av-ilabilitie- (A)                         '000 an                   138.2       570.0   1,748.2       799.6   1,442.0   1,341.3   1,256.7  1,147.1    590.8   131.7
795.2) 9/
Total Rabi Cropped Area within Tarbela
Canal Coirand System 8/                    '000 a-    7,957.0      9,142.7   9,198.2   9,282.3   9,418.6   9,819.2             -          -         -          -
Tota1  lncremental Rabi Cropped Area
.ithin Ta-bela Canal Co=and
Systen (B)                                 '000 a-                 1,185.7   1,241.2   1,325.3   1,461.6   1,862.2             -          -         -          -
(A) / (B)                                    '                        11.7       45.9       131.9       54.7       77.4        -         -          -          -
(60.0)
Total Rabi Wheat Area within Tarbela
Canal Commnod System 8/                    *000 or   4,653.1    5,201.1   5,357.6   5,559.4   5,935.2   6,164.2                -         -          -          -
Total Increnental Rabi Wheat Area with-
in Torbela Canal Conmand System  (C)    '000 ac                      548.0      704.5       906.3   1,282.1   1,511.1          -         -         -           -
(C) / (B)                                    Z                        46.2       56.8       68.4        87.7       81.1        -         -         -          -        -
1/ Pre-Tarbela 5-year period.
2/ Boned 00 monthly river flows (1970-71/1974-75) and mean monthly ootflows from Tarbelo Reservoir (1975-76/1980-81). 1981-82/1996-97 level cepresents
1976-77/1980-81 (five-year) overage.  Thereafter, sedimentation is annoned to reduce active by 8.0 MAF, or by 88.9%, over a 45-year period.  Aosouing
linear reduction, thio woold yield .132 MAP of reduced October/Novesher releases p.a. nubseqoent to 1996-97.
3/ Boned on WAPDA estilate of 15% redaction fron source--specifically, 10% in river end 5% in lInk canals).
4/ Baned on apportiosed escapages below  atri Barrage. 1970-71/1980-81 historical data from Water Resource Management Directorate., WAPDA, ldu- Basis
Irrigatiem System Abstract of Operational Data from 1960-61 to 1980-81, Lahore, November 1981.  Escapages in post-1980-81 period calculated at 8.5% of
October/Ncvember Releases at Canal Head based on long-tem (1970-71/1980-81) overage.
5/ Incremental ever pre-Tarbela 1970-71/1945-75 overage met availabilities of 2.910 MAF.
6/ Based on multiple regression-estimated elasticity using 1970-71/1978-79 data from the 10 Tarbelo Comwand Canals.  The following relationship
won eotinated:
lnY=7.161756 + 0.7462934 loX, + 0.2343422 IrX2
(0.04492)        (0.03594)
where Y = Total Rabi Area ('000 ac)
X = Total Ortober/November Canal Withdrawals (MAF)
X- = Total Rabi Private and Public Tobewells Pompage (MAF)
Adjusted R 2= 85.4X.
^** fou.d significant at 99% confidence level.
7/ Exclodes estimated effect of tubewell pompage.
8/ Historical data supplied by WAPDA.
9/  Area used in economic analysis consistent with 1976-77, 1976-80 average.
-82-



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITY PROJECT
Terbele FPeject--Eceeetac Reel Flew
(ian Rs. Million)
TEAR  I/    1960       1969     1970      1971     1972     1973      1974     1979      1976     1977     1970      1979     1900      1901     1902     1903,    19814     1905j    1906      1907      1900     1909      1990      1991
BENEFITS   2/
AGRICULTURAL PRODNJCTION  3/    -            -         -        -        -         -        -        -      292       905     1192      1304     2674     2533      2480     242-7     2547    21732      2772     2707      2795     2-56      2?87      10Q4
THERMAL CAPITAL COSTS    4/         -        -        -         -        -        -       655    2102      2120       491        -         -      776     2506     2521       502       206      407       670      154         -         -        -         -
THERMAL DIM   4/                    -        -        -                  -        --                        104       104      104       104      104      104       227      227       227      227       259      259       259      259       259      259
RESIRUAL OIL SAVINGS        4!/-                                    -  -                             -        57     1471     1979      1004     2474     2960      4774    6135       6135     6211      6752     7247      7446     7670      7001     0066
POWER SURTOTAL                   -         -        -                  -               655      2102     2209    2-066      1603     1907      3354     5650     7521    6944       6560      71215    7601      7661     7705      7929    0140       1325
TOTAL                           -         -        -        -         -        -      655    2102       2501     3050     2835    3212       6020      0103    10010    9372       9119     9056    10454   10440    10900    10725    10927    11229
COSTS 2/
AGRICULTURAL COSTS    5/                     -                  -                  -        -96                       353      469       501     1024      965       932      943       990     1039      1067     1093      1123     1163      1196     1243
INVESTMENT COSTS   4/
RESETTLEMENT                       90      195      190       100      220      206       372      312      144       132       90        09        5        37       70       47        50       50        37         -                  ---
CONSTRUCTION                     556    2675       4609     52086     5007     2707      1037     1642     1041       799      747       654      969      940       042     1010       454      103       112         -        -                  -
POWER INSTALLATIONS                 -        -        -        15       42      190       403      220      2-34      193       47       353      639      636       019      402      1245      531       2208                                         
TUNNEL No.                          -                                   56      166       404      640      317        54        13        6        5         0        -         -        -         -        -                            --
TRANSMISSION LINES                  -                 -         -        -         6       10      103       700      606      221        55       10         7        5       52,      624      546       217        21        ---
OIM PLANT    6/                     -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -                 -         -                  -       64      149        50         3        5        39       39        39
SUBTOTAL                      654     2070     4036    5401       5324     3355      3034     3013      2516     1704      1017     1157     1640      1620     1745      1591     2445      1467      653        24         5       39        39       39
RECURRENT COSTS
WATER AING                                                                                                    16       72       52       194      122        06      100      120       193      214       243      261       259       259      259       259
POWER WINGO7/                       -        -        -         -        -         -        -                  -        -       51        51       51        51       39      101       101      101       111       115      115       115      115       115
SUBTOTAL                        -         -        -        -         -        -                          16        72      103      244       173      116      139       220      294       314      350       37n       374      374      374       374
TARRELA SURTOTAL                 654      2070    4036    5841    5324    3399          3034    3013       2531      1056     1220      1402     1021     1756      1004     1011      2730     1701      1011      400       300       413      413       413  ~
TOTAL                         654    2070      4036    5401       5324     3355      3014    3013       2637     2209      1609     1902     3045      2721     2017    2754       3729      2019     2070      1494     1503      1576     1610      1657
NET INCO BENEFITS               -654   -2070   -4036   -5401   -5324   -3355   -2379              -031       -46      041     1146      1309     3102    5462       7193    6610       5306     7037      8376     8954      0?997    9148    9317       9577



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITY PROJECT
Tarbel  Pproject--Econosic Reol Flow
(irn Rs, Million)
YEAR  1/   1992    1993    1994995-1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016    2017
BENEFITS 2/
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION 3/  3011    3117    3219    3326    3169    3036    2891    2744    2599    2452    2305    2150    2011    1862    1712    1564    1413    1264    1113                  962     810      659      506     354
THERMAL CAPITAL COSTS  4/        -       -        -       -        -     655    2182    2128       491        -        -     776    2586    2521       582     206      687      670     154        -       -        -        -       -
THERMAL OM 4/                 259     259      259     259      259     259      259     259      259      259     259      259      259     259      259     259      259     259      259      259     259      259      259     259
RESIDUAL OIL SAVINGS  4/   8210    8378    8550    8722    8722    8722    8722    8722    8722    0722    8722    0722    0722    0722    8722    8722    1722    8722    8722    8722    0722    8722    8722    8722
POWER SUBTOTAL             8478    8637    8809    8981    8981    9636   11163   11109    9472    8981    8981    9757   11567   11502    9563    9187    9668    9651    9135    8901    8981    8981    8981    8981
TOTAL                    11489   11754   12028   12307   12150   12672   14054   13853   12071   11434   11286   11915   13570   13364   11275   10751   11081   10915   10248    9943    9791    9640    9487    9335
COSTS 2/
AGRICULTURAL COSTS 5/         1281    1319    1358    1405    1339    1283    1221    1159    1098    1036          974      912      849     786      723     661      597      534     470      407     342      278      214     149
INVESTMENT COSTS   4/
RESETTLEMENT                     -       -        -            -       -        -            -        -       -                         -       -        -        -       -        -                -        -       -        -       -
CONSTRUCTION                     -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
POWER INSTALLATIONS              -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -
TUNNEL No, 5                     -       -                 -
TRANSMISSION LINES               -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -                         -
OgM PLANT  6/                   39      39       39      39       39       39      39       39      39       39       39      39       39      39       39      39       39       39      39       39      39       39       39      39
SUBTOTAL                    39       39       39      39       39      39       39      39       39       39      39       39      39       39      39       39       39      39       39       39      39       39      39       39
RECURRENT COSTS
WATER WING                     259     259      259     259      259      259     259      259     259      259     259      259      259     259      259     259      259      259     259      259     259      259      259     259
POMER WING 7/                  115     115      115     115      115      115     115      115     115      115      115     115      115     115      115     115      115      115     115      115     115      115      115     115
SUBTOTAL                   374      374     374      374      374     374      374     374      374     374      374      374     374      374      374     374      374     374      374      374     374      374     374      374
TARBELA SUBTOTAL               413     413      413     413      413     413      413      413     413      413     413      413      413     413      413     413      413      413     413      413     413      413      413     413
TOTAL                     1694    1733    1772    1818    1752    1696    1635    1573    1511    1450    1387    1325    1263    1200    1137    1074    1010               947      883     820      756      692      627     563   en   en
NET INCR BENEFITS             9795   10021   10257   10488   10398   10976   12419   12280   10559    9984    9899   10590   12315   12164   10138    9677   10071    9968    9364    9123    9035    8948    8860    8772                      - co



ANNEX 8
Table 4
Page 3
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Tarbela Project -- Economic Real Flow: Footnotes
1/ Pakistan fiscal year, i.e. 1968=FY68=July 1, 1967-June 30, 1968.
2/ Cost/benefit streams expressed in constant December 1982 (mid-FY83)
currency values.
3/ Ref. ANNEX 8, Tables 1-3. Represents gross agricultural production using
irrigated Rabi wheat as the representative crop. Quantified agricultural
benefits include only those calculated based on estimated incremental
Rabi cropped area attributable to incremental Tarbela irrigation water
releases. Excluded is Tarbela's contribution to increased productivity
on traditional (pre-Tarbela) Rabi cropped area.
4/ Based on report prepared for project economic appraisal by Sir Alexander
Gibb & Partners entitled Evaluation of the Tarbela Project located in
Project File.
5/ Ref. ANNEX 8, Tables 1-3.
6/ O&M plant investments shown here include those for the proposed Reservoir
Maintenance Facility Project and a subsequent sinking fund US$ 3.0 M p.a.
to replace exhausted capital facilities. Previous O&M plant costs
included Water Wing O&M costs.
7/ Includes O&M costs of incremental transmission lines.
-85-



ANNEX 8
Table 5
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Tarbela: Relative Importance of Project Cost and
Benefit Streams with Switching Values
Percent Of Total    Switching
PWOR of Benefit      Value 2/
or Cost Stream 1/ (10% p.a.)
I. Benefits
A.  Agricultural Benefits                       26.9            -87.8
B.  Power (Thermal Alternative)
i.  Capital Costs                          13.4           -175.8
2.  Thermal O&M                             2.4            -995.8
3.  Saved Residual Oil                     57.3             -41.2
Subtotal                        73.1             -32.3
Total (0)                       100.0            -23.6
(Rs M)                     (35,588.4)
II. Costs
A.  Agricultural Costs                          14.0            220.6
B. Tarbela Facilities
1.  Investment Costs
a.  Resettlement                        5.0             618.3
b.  Construction                       64.0              48.3
c.  Power Installations                 6.3             490.5
d.  Tunnel No. 5                        2.7          1,114.1
e.  Transmission Lines                  3.7            844.5
f.  O&M Plant                           0.4          8,254.2
Subtotal                        82.1              37.7
2. Recurrent Costs
a.  Water Wing                          2.7          1,141.9
b.  Power Wing                          1.2          2,649.9
Subtotal                          3 9            798.0
Tarbela Total                    86.0             36.0
Total (X)                       100.0             30.9
(Rs t)                     (27,180,5)
1/ Streams discounted at 10% p.a., the assumed OCC for Pakistan.
2/  Switching value is the percentage change in the specified stream
that reduces the Net Present Worth (NPW) to zero at the specified
discount rate.
-86-



ANNEX 9
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Related Documents and Background Papers in Project File
1. WAPDA, Tarbela Dam Project, Operation and Maintenance Organization,
Tarbela Dam Project Operation and Maintenance - Action Programme,
February, 1982.
2. WAPDA, Tarbela Dam Project, Special Plant and Equipment
for Operation and Maintenance, June 1977.
3. WAPDA, Operation and Maintenance of Tarbela Project, October 1976.
4. Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners, Evaluation of the Tarbela Project,
July 1982.
5. Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners, The Tarbela Experience, A Report to
the World Bank, June 1980.
6. Harza Engineering Company International, Tarbela Dam Project, Requirements
and Specifications for O&M Equipment, 3 Volumes, August 1978.
7. Impregilo, Tarbela Dam Project, Plant and Equipment, December 1980.
8. Howard H. Eastin, Consultant to the World Bank on O&M of Civil Facilities
at Tarbela Project, Report on Review of Tarbela O&M, December 1979.
9. William H. Young, Consultant to the World Bank on O&M of Electrical/
Mechanical Facilities at Tarbela Project, Report on Review of Tarbela
O&M, December 1982.
-87-



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Organization Chart: Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PAKISTAN
CHAIRMAN
MEMBER WATER
MEMBER POWER
MEMBER FINANCE
SECRETARY
Managing Director            Managing Director            Managing Direct               Managing Director                                           General MAnager
WVATER                       POWVER                      FINANCE                 PROJEiCT PLANNING                Sertariat                    GeMNeSRaMAnaIer
REVIEWV
G.M. Dams                     G.M. Generation              Director Audit                                            Secretary
CP               G. M. Tarbela                 G.M. Distribution            G.M. Finance                                               D.G. Public Rel.
G.M. North                    G.M. Trans. and              M. Finance, Water                                         C.E. Evaluations
G.M. Central                   Grid Station                M. Finance, Coordin.                                      G.M. Computer Center
G.M. South                    G. M. Design                 Chief Auditor                                             l,G. WAPDA
G. M. Kalabagh                G.M. Coordination
AEBS
Legend
G.M.   General Manager
M.     Manager
D.G.   Director General
C.E.    Chief Engineer
I. G.    Inspector General
AEBS  Area Electricity Boards
World Ban k-24077



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Organization Chart: Mangla Project
Chief Engineer
Resident                      Deputy                    Superintending                                               Deputy                       Resident
Engineer                     Director                      Engineer                Senior Budget and                 Director                     Engineer                     Technicai                      Project
POWER                       FISHERIES                 SURVEI LLANCE                 Accounts Officer           ADMINISTRATION                      CIVIL                        Officer                      Enginees
Security                                                                                                                                            Dams
Operations                                                                                                                                          Spillwvays
Electrical                                                                                                                                          Instrurmentation
Maintenance                                                                                                                                        Surveys
Mechanical                                                                                                                                          Workshops
Maintenance                                                                                                                                        Medical
Mechanical Maintenance                                                                                                                              Colony
Exterior Works
Meters and Relays
Inspection, Test and Record
Stores
Budget and Accounts
World Bank-24076
oo                                                                                                                                                                            H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R



PAK ISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Organization Chart: Chasma Barrage
Project Director
E. E.
E.E.          ~~Admninistration           Chashma                    School                   Hospital                  Drawing                 Accounts
Chashma                   Branch                   Jhelum                    Staff                     Staff                    Branch                   Branch
Barrage                                           Branch
Legend
E.E. Executive Engineer
World Bank-24075
hA



PAK ISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Organization Chart: Tarbela Project, Water Wing
General Manager
and
Project Director
D.P.D.                  CC.E                        .E.                    C.E.                      ...DBugtan
Surveillance               CREAdistaonOperations and                                                 Contractudetsan
and TechnicalTAMS                        Coordination and           MitnceCtrtsAccounts
Resettlement             Mitnc
Services               Civil
Administration         Drilling and Grouting
'.0                                                                       Elec./Mech.             Workshop and Machinery
Resettlement           Geotechnical
Watershed              Surveys
Medical                Hydrology
Security               Technical Officer
Transport
Protocol
Legend
D.P.D. Deputy Project Director
C.R.E. Chief Resident Engineer
C.E.    Chief Engineer
D.      Director
World Bank-24074
td



PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Organization Chart: Tarbela Dam, Power Wing
Chief Engineer
and
Project Director
D.P.D.        ~~D.P.D.
R.E.                RE.                 RE.                Director             D.P.D.            Mechanical             Civil               D.P.D.                      Stores
Electrical         Mechanical          Protection            1raining            Contracts          Contruction         Construction       Administration
Budgets and
AccouLnts
Security
Right Banik
Colony
Legend
R.E.  -Resident Engineer
D.P.D.   Deputy Project Director
Schools
Medical
World Bank--24366



IBRD 16630R
DEMOCRATOC REPUBLIC                7                        r                                     / 5
. J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-M REP CF  ro 
AFGHANISTAN                                             J                                             RAN  )AFGHANCSrAN,  .  ,,
B           ~ - _  .                                    0 Pesho wo r   >          ,- -,Kotka
0                 2 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
E                        .                     R o w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DrbIpnd                     PA K IS Te.^2tt AtNs e ttt
Ac- ~ ~     ~     A
,7,~~~ ,abn                               d2e.'  ntmpC//n ttpa toJt.
/                                      -S ,                  \           -              ainv terrltoow  t    endt t0T irbelo  E
Peshawar                         *Z_. OMAND 
_* ~   ~     _  Ca,O                              9''  ,  A                                                        --
ARABA70
Attock           ISLAMABAD
T.e .Rap Ua eL   the
Raw                                                ....ar   I ___  A:  .
wpindi                                      T-           - - 
The o   dot-ratroer  ertlh
R Aje he e te reap
Xse~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ,Ce ee ir er erdeFEREeORt
,;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J acepe Ce etSar heredar-es t
-   _-n Barruges ~~L- 0
36'                                                                                      C                                           6
.Cr iPAKISTAN
Lahore,B 1
BALLOKj                             N      I
,,             RESERVOI~~~~~~TR IMANE NC  FACILITIES PROJECT
PROEC S EOZEPORE
<  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~0                                20    41    Cr        i0cr
KLM LTES,
Works
/  Project    Previous Works Completed under IBP
Sites      to IBP   Remodeled  New Works
Dams        -
Barrazges     A-           -                       A
Canals                           ____
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
PROJECT  SITES                 74
-   .O74' 
OCTOBER 1982






-    ~    -    -       -    -    -    --    -    -    -      -   -   -   -~   -  -  -    -  -  -  - - r -- - - -  - - - -- - - -  s - - -- o - -- - - -  - - - -- - - -  - - - -- - - -  I "PI'
Q-s\.,~~~~~~~~~~~~C\X  f!t  t.  
* X a / ma W; -r k - ' - r / ' 
- -  t  X f -, .1.W - r_. _ , ,  ieX gi INTAK  ''      t.j
O  100     ZOO     JDO 
NC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FE                                                                                   4D\'MNgfrbrnv  
..  ........  .G                                                                 f     m






f  s ps  treO
iv >                                        >                                        S x >, N  v 1 PAKISTAN
)fIsombdt1-*   RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
DEM.REP OF                                                             Chashma   Barrage
I R A N                     rAFGHAN STAN  1Ch-h-a                                CB
/~       a5"  Bctrrssge5 (t/\
20'-
P A K I S T A N y/ ,,\
INDIA
1'"' Ar   ,EXISTING                                           I-RlGHT  SPUR  NO. 2
5A-\,SlOMAN                                PARHARPUR
JARAtIA    60'i            to'            FEEDER                                                                                                                                                                        3350 OOOE
CANAL
////==== .e7 RIGHT SPUR
"             -GRIGHT
GUIDE BANK
,.-LEFT
BRANCH SPUR
\              ////            ~~~~~LEFT SPUR
g      WAPDA COLONY
-3310 000 L                                                                                                                                                                                                            3 310 \00 E 3
CHASHMA   JHELUM             -KU330IOOO
L I N K  C A N A L                                                                                                                                                     Ft--- K-U N D I A N  rlY,S  p hmas bee, pesdhthd by the
Wr/ld Bank A Stsff e-ch,loe/y foe
t                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the convem,ence 7f the readelrs of
th Iepr towh,Ch ,t s attached
The debe-mt-,ons used a-d the  5
tt tdt ep/y, on the par of the . 5
0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ttWend Back andd 't ffi/hateo.,sy
0                          J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sodotmentonthe trBa/ tnstatusn of  t
O                                                               0                                     7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~r aCcep tafnlet of .Su crh  b eunild unrse  0'GaJ






P PAK ISTAN
_<-- RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
TARBELA DAM
615 000                                                                                                                                                                     65 000
INTAKE CHANNEL         A,/   ii                   /                  .'.
DIVERSION POWER
GATE OPERATIONDA                                                                      
STRUCTURE -
POWER TUNNELS
IRRIGATION TUNNELS                                               P      S BHANKe
!A DEMN TENP OF                                   '0U6      S                    D AL DARRA WEIR ET0,OO2DD3U
2<a 1-    60 '   1DA                                                                                                            O
RIGATIONf DAMC,SC,Sa,UUCOYO,SS&OCCW,d6,,SOt 
ACADIA 4$ U           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WE  E-VC
S~~~~~~~~~~.......(~~E                                                                      W                ETATAU.lAY
- AYCACUU 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SILA
I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 ~ ~ ~     






