Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3462-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUJCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$10.2 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FAC]:LITIES PROJECT
February 22, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1            =   Rs 13.0
Rs 1            =   US$0.0769
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BCM     -   Billion Cubic Meters
DMO     -   Dams Monitoring Organization
EEC     -   European Economic Community
IBDF    -   Indus Basin Development Fund
IBDP    -   Indus Basin Development Project
M       -   Million
MAF     -   Million Acre Feet
O&M     -   Operation and Maintenance
TDF     -   Tarbela Development Fund
WAPDA   -   Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                US$10.2 million equivalent (including
capitalized front end fee).
Terms:                 Repayable in twenty years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The project is designed to strengthen WAPDA's overall
capability to operate and maintain the Chashma, Mangla
and Tarbela reservoirs. The project would provide
additional operation and maintenance (O&M) equipment
and replace wornout and obsolete items at Mangla and
Chashma; provide buildings, equipment, vehicles, tools,
spare parts and other items required at Tarbela to
ensure the safe and dependable operation and
maintenance of that project; provide technical
assistance in the areas of workshop, stores and
procurement organiza.tion and management and maintenance
records management; provide a training center together
with assistance in training techniques and curriculum
planning for middle managers, supervisors, skilled
technicians and apprentices; and provide technical
assistance in carryiLng out the first (1984) and second
(1987) safety inspections of the Tarbela project. The
project involves no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs:                                 Local     Foreign      Total
--------US $ mill ion--------
Buildings                                    1.7          -          1.7
Equipment                                    6.8         10.6       17.4
Vehicles                                     3.2          3.3        6.5
Spare Parts & Supplies                       2.3          4.2        6.5
Technical Assistance                         0.1          0.5        0.6
Training                                     0.1          0.6        0.7
Total Base Cost                           14.2         19.2       33.4
Physical Contingencies                       0.8          0.9        1.7
Price Contingencies                          3.0          3.9        6.9
Total Project Cost/i                      18.0         24.0      42.0
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                   -            0.2        0.2
Total Financing Required                  18.0         24.2       42.2
Financing Plan:                                 Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ million--------
GOP/WAPDA                                   18.0          -         18.0
Bank                                         -           10.2       10.2
U.K.                                         -           14.0       14.0
Total                                   18.0         24.2      42.2
Estimated Disbursements:           FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
____-_------- US$ million--------------…-
Annual                        1.25    2.75    4.40    1.75    1.00    0.40
Cumulative                    1.25    4.00    7.15    8.90    9.80   10.20
Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: No. 4152-PAK dated February 18, 1983
Maps:                IBRD Nos. 16630-16631-16632-16633
/1 Includes taxes and duties amounting to $15.6 M.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN FOR A RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for US$10.2 million equivalent, including
capitalized front end fee, to help finance a Reservoir Maintenance Facilities
Project. The Loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Cofinancing in an amount
equivalent to US$14.0 million is expected to be provided by the United King-
dom on grant terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Econonic Developments and
Prospects" (No. 4215-PAK, dated February 11, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 11, 1983.
3.      The past five years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY82 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging about 2.8%
p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increasee in real terms by
10% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 3.8% p.a. and in
industry by 9.3% p.a.  This performance contrasts markedly with the economic
stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only
3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1SI77 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather-and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
Middle East. Various policy changes introduced by the Government have also
contributed significantly to the recovery.
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input suppli'es. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the
same time, steps have been taken to reduce t:he fertilizer subsidy (which has



-2-
been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the development
budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for other priority
agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices Commission has
been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in crop support
and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
6.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water
delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better
scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the
private sector, for example, through the promotion of private tubewell
development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs-- in pesticides,
seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm power--have also
been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an early stage and a
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet
to take place.
7.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricul-
tural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; con-
stitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against further
arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector
have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise
and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions,
and direct cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and
exports. These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports
which has improved the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning
proceidure has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in
private sector confidence and to a sharp increase in private investment,
mainly in small and medium-scale projects.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
ineviltably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been com-
pleted of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. These
measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled
technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer



-3-
subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity utilization sub-
stantially in the public sector.
9.      The higher level of economic activit:y during the past five years and
the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes and
reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. The budgetary
situation improved significantly during FY80) through FY82. Government
revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79, rose by an
average of 18% p.a. during the next three years as a result of the continued
growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases and intensified efforts to
improve tax collections. Although politica:L developments outside Pakistan's
borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on
total spending; the growth of public expenditures was limited to 13% p.a.
The expansion of development and administrative expenditures were restrained,
while subsidies were reduced by more than 25%. These restraints on expendi-
tures, continued revenue growth and some improvement in surpluses generated
by public sector agencies helped to increase the availability of
non-inflationary domestic resources.  During FY80 through FY82, the overall
budget deficit averaged 5.7% of GNP and the bank-financed budget deficit 1.7%
of GNP; both figures are well below those oE the late 1970s.
10.     Pakistan's export performance improved considerably between FY77 and
FY81. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, also greatly assisted the external
position. These increases, however, were partly offset by an increase in the
value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants, fertilizer, edible
oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was US$991 million or
3.3% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77
in current prices.
11.      A number of developments contributed favorably to Pakistan's ability
to finance the FY81 current account deficit. These included the conclusion
of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF in November 1980; a
positive response from aid donors to the country's improved economic perfor-
mance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows; and an agreement
with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of debt
service payments on official concessional debt falling due over an 18-month
period beginning mid-January 1981. As a consequence of improved performance
on both current account and capital account, foreign exchange reserves
increased from US$748 million to US$1,039 million during the year; the latter
was the equivalent of about two months' worth of import of goods and serv-
ices.
12.     The balance of payments deteriorated somewhat during FY82.  The
principal reasons were a 17% decline in the. value of exports coupled with
relatively slow growth of migrant remittances (6%). For Pakistan's major
exports, rice and cotton, the combination of deteriorating world economic
conditions plus output expansion in other countries led to a decline in both



-4-
unit values and volumes. For manufactured exports, the slowdown in the world
economy, together with a deterioration in Pakistan's competitiveness result-
ing from the linkage of the rupee to the US dollar up to January 1982 (the
currency is now being managed with reference to a weighted basket of curren-
cies), led to a decline in value as compared with the previous year. Because
of the decline in world petroleum prices and import substitution in some key
sectors (most particularly, fertilizers), the volume of imports of essential
raw malterials and capital goods could still grow sufficiently to provide for
a real GDP expansion of 6% while the total value of imports expanded by only
2%. Owing to the above factors, Pakistan's current account deficit rose from
US$991 million in FY81 to US$1,530 million in FY82 (the latter being equiv-
alent to 4.7% of GNP). Net inflows of official assistance, private capital
and IMF resources were not sufficient to cover the increased deficit and
there was a drawdown of about US$200 million in reserves. At the end of
FY82, reserves were US$840 million, the equivalent of about 1.5 months of
imports.
13.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent welcome
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its
recently improved economic performance over the present decade and bring
about aL modest improvement in the living standards of its population. These
issues include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agricul-
ture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
improve performance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind
continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service
expenditures; and the problems of resource mobilization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue
to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied
by the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output
growth has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available
inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still
exists for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears
essential to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and
program,s which would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The
importance of increasing farm productivity is recognized in the Government
and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless,
support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and
other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified,
while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary
adjustments in output and consumer prices.



-5-
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus tc, growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently bEtter, remain below the levels
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scalE industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets. Although there have been some recent improvements in the
output and profitability of public enterprises, these improvements need to be
carried further through appropriate reforms to remove distortions in pricing
and improve performance criteria and incentives to managers. To assist the
recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased momentum in the
industrial sector will require an adequate supply of local and foreign
financing, both for investments and current inputs, and the more rapid provi-
sion of necessary utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the
same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive system
supports those industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage.
Analysis is in progress to determine levels of effective protection in order
to provide the basis for formulating an appropriate industrial development
strategy for the 1980s.
16.     The Government-s efforts to deal wi'h the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector
has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign
private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological
and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the
development of existing fields has been slow and Pakistan's considerable
potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be realized. The Government
has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such matters as energy
planning, pricing and organization in order to accelerate progress.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously hand-
icapped the country-s ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the
socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines in
fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards.  However, without higher literacy rates, improved
health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that
population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services
have been low and undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban
health facilities. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this
problem; a new and more promising population program is in the initial stages



-6-
of implementation, and several special programs to improve basic health and
education facilities were introduced in the FY83 budget, especially for rural
areas.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive and
the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will have
to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external resource
constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments, a fundamen-
tal improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the economy,
particularly in public savings. At 12% of GNP, national savings are substan-
tially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but are still low for a
country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage of development. The
continuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending,
improve the performance of the public sector and encourage private investment
will help to reduce present imbalances between investment and savings flows.
At the same time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining
private consumption through further appropriate price adjustments and selec-
tive duty increases on non-essential imports. Continued restraints on spend-
ing andi measures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax
administration and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes,
domestLc water rates and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countr:Les. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels
and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to face
a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in demand
management and in planning, incentives and government programs in agricul-
ture, iLndustry and energy have helped to create a climate more conducive to
rapid economic growth and better international trade performance, and have
established an improved framework within which further reforms can be effec-
tively pursued. The recent government policy initiatives, which have been
formula,ted in close consultation with the Bank and Fund, have improved Pakis-
tan's c:reditworthiness for commercial borrowing and for a blend of Bank and
IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of calendar 1981, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undfsbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which US$4.6 bil-
lion waLs owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.2 billion
to OPEC: and US$1.9 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1981, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's



-7-
external public indebtedness was 13.8% and in external debt service was
13.3%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports of
goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 12% in FY82,
should rise slowly during the 1980s, even assuming substantial commercial
borrowing, reaching 15% in FY85 and remaining in the 15-16% range through
FY90.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA ccmmitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for agriculture,
31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for educa-
tion. Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for
railways, electric power, gas pipelines, pcrts, highways, telecommunications
and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas cf rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, thE Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation wa.ter, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and
waterlogging; and providing essential faci]ities including tubewells, live-
stock development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending
is to assist the Government s program to increase the productivity of avail-
able land and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding
investments, as recommended recently in a INDP-financed study for which the
Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270 mil-
lion for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC),



-8-
and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), total-
ing US$;50 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assistance
to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for small-scale industry. As of
September 30, 1982, IFC had made investments in 15 Pakistan enterprises for a
total of US$92.2 million, of which US$82.4 million was by way of loans and
US$9.8 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About
US$33.9 million of these investments remained outstanding. The enterprises
assisted by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in
textiles, two in food and food processing, and one each in cement, steel,
fertilizers, plastics, wood processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a
shareholder in PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications has
shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the
institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port
Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and federal
and provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has
assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and
Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respec-
tively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under the Indus
Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has financed a petroleum
development project and begun to play an important role in strengthening the
Public Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in
the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan-s domestic energy
resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework for
increased private investment in the sector. A second water supply project in
Lahore is currently under implementation. Five credits for education, total-
ing US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and
higher technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents.
28.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan's
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment lend-
ing operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1982.
This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in government
development planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy
and industrial sectors.
29.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some
projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted government proce-
dures for project approval, which have now been streamlined, and to slowness



-9-
in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and
technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East, and budgetary
constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
30.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
agricultural credit, drainage, water supply, urban development, oil and gas
development, population planning and education. Pakistan continues to have
domestic resource constraints for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist
the Government to finance agricultural and other high-priority projects which
have a low foreign exchange component, financing of some local expenditures
r          in specific cases is justified.
31.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakis-
tan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE INDUS BASIN SYSTEM
Background
32.     Agriculture is the mainstay of Pakistan-s economy, contributing about
30% to the country s GDP, employment for about 60% of the labor force, and
about two-thirds of total exports. About 72% of the population resides in
rural areas and is dependent directly or indirectly on agriculture. Rainfall
is low, variable and seasonal, making irrigation a necessity for viable
agriculture. Out of a total cultivated area of 20.1 M ha, representing about
25% of total land area, about 11.9 M ha are serviced by canal irrigation and
4.5 M ha by small streams, springs, wells, and seasonal flooding. Thus, only
about 3.7 M ha are cultivated under rainfed conditions. The Indus Basin
System is the largest contiguous irrigation system in the world, comprising
the Indus River and its major tributaries, three major storage reservoirs, 19
barrages/headworks, 12 link canals, 43 canal commands and about 89,000 water-
courses.   The total length of the canal system is about 58,500 km with
watercourses, farm channels and field ditches comprising another 1.6 M km.
33.     Partition of the Indian sub-continent in 1947 left major headwaters
of some Indus tributaries in India, placing at risk extensive areas of
irrigated land in Pakistan. To resolve this contentious water sharing
problem, the 1960 Indus Water Treaty allocated the waters of the three east-
ern rivers of Punjab (Ravi, Beas and Sutlej) to India and those of the three
western rivers (Indus, Jhelum and Chenab) to Pakistan. To serve areas in
Pakistan previously commanded by the eastetn rivers, a massive civil works
effort, the Indus Basin Development Project (IBDP), was launched to transfer



-10-
water from the western rivers through a network of large inter-river link
canals and to replace lost dry season supplies by construction of giant
storage dams on the Jhelum and Indus. The Indus Basin Development Fund
(IBDF) was established in 1960 with international donor support to finance
these works. The Bank was appointed Administrator of the IBDF and management
and implementation of works were entrusted to the Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA), assisted by private consultants and contrac-
tors. Under this program, the following works were implemented: (a) Mangla
Dam on the Jhelum; (b) eight link canals; and (c) six barrages, including
Chashmwa. With minor exceptions, replacement works were completed by 1971 on
schedule.
34.     The IBDF agreement also provided for a major study (The Indus Special
Study completed in 1967) to aid GOP in establishing priorities for future
investiment.  A major conclusion of this study was to endorse GOP's proposal
to construct a dam on the Indus at Tarbela to supplement dry season river
flows for agricultural purposes and to generate power.
Tarbela Dam
35.     The Tarbela Development Fund (TDF) was established in 1968 to finance
the construction of the Tarbela Dam with contributions amounting to US$149
million from Canada, France, Italy, United Kingdom and the United States;
US$25 M in a Bank loan; and an estimated surplus of US$318 M from the IBDF,
making US$492 M in all to meet the estimated foreign currency requirement of
the project. Pakistan agreed to meet all rupee costs. The Bank was
appointed Administrator of the TDF. With financing arrangements completed,
the TD]F Agreement was signed on May 2, 1968, and the initial US$623 M Tarbela
Contract (US$360 M in foreign exchange) was awarded in May 1968.
36.     The Tarbela Dam, 148 m high and about 2,750 m at its crest and with
live sitorage of 11.4 billion cubic meters (BCM), was destined to be the
largesit volume dam in the world. Many features of Tarbela incorporate major
advances in dam construction theory and practice, and execution and opera-
tional experience have provided models for other facilities worldwide.
Despite major problems during construction (see below) the dam became opera-
tional in 1975. Today over 10.6 BCM is provided annually by Tarbela for
irrigation. The power plant (eight units) already has installed capacity of
1400 NJ.
37.     As a consequence of damage to certain sections of the Tarbela project
during the first reservoir filling in the summer of 1974, additional finance
was required to meet the cost of repairs and remedial works considered neces-
sary for its completion. Under the TDF (Supplemental) Agreement 1975, US$37
M was contributed by the United States, United Kingdom, Italy, Australia and
IDA for this purpose. Further adverse developments gave rise to the need for
additional works and funding. Accordingly, the Second (Supplemental) Agree-
ment 1978 was drawn up to help meet the remaining cost of completing the



-11-
project. Under this agreement, contributions amounting in total to US$79 M
were provided by Canada, Germany, IDA, Italy and the United Kingdom. In
addition, the EEC has provided US$15 M equivalent in two credits, Kuwait
US$18 M, Saudi Arabia US$60 M and Abu Dhabi US$25 M. Pakistan has financed
all additional rupee costs. The total cost of the Tarbela project exclusive
of power facilities is currently estimated at $1.5B, which includes about
$690 M in rupees.
38.     The problems experienced during 1975-77 mainly concerned the tunnels,
stilling basins and spillways. Repair and remedial work on the tunnels,
stilling basin 3 and on the plunge pools of the service and auxiliary
spillways have been completed. Modificaticn of tunnel 4 outlet from a still-
ing basin to a flip bucket is expected to be completed in May 1983.
Other Reservoirs
39.     Mangla Dam.  Construction of the Mangla Dam across the Jhelum River
was completed in June 1967.  The dam is 3,140 m in length and 140 m high and
the reservoir has a live storage capacity of 6.59 BCM. Mangla has eight
generating units of 100 MW each. The total cost of Mangla Dam and its
related facilities was US$687.0 M.
40.     Chashma Barrage.  Although initially conceived as a diversion
facility under the IBDP, this barrage, completed in 1971, acts as a barrage-
cum-reservoir. This was achieved by raising the barrage water level by 2.1 m
(7.0 feet) thus creating a 0.62 BCM capacity storage pond. The main barrage
structure is 1,085 m long and has 52 gates each 60 feet in width. Though
relatively small in comparison with Tarbela and Mangla, Chashma has provided
cumulative storage releases of 10.38 BCM from 1971 to 1981. The total cost
of Chashma Barrage and its related facilities was US$118.8 M.
Reservoir Operation and Maintenance Programs
41.     The operation and maintenance (O&M) programs for Mangla, Chashma and
Tarbela projects are the responsibility of WAPDA. For Mangla and Chashma,
regular O&M programs have been underway for a number of years and the transi-
tion from construction to O&M has been genErally smooth. In both projects,
regular and unexpected maintenance requirements have been carried out by
WAPDA-s O&M staff. In addition, periodic dam safety inspections have been
made at Mangla and Chashma by WAPDA's Dam Monitoring Organization (DMO); one
inspection was also made at Mangla by expatriate specialists. The results of
these inspections have been satisfactory. At Tarbela, the situation is much
more complex.  Many of the Tarbela facilities are the largest in the world
and are highly stressed by the very large discharges and river flows. Fur-
thermore, the local geological environment is poor. These circumstances,
together with the large repair/remedial program, point to the need for close
monitoring of the structures and for an O&M program of broad scope, with



-12-
skilled personnel and strong physical and financial resources. Regular dam
safety inspections will also be essential.
42.     The Tarbela project is now in a transition period during which
project construction is phasing down and O&M activities are increasing. This
transition phase is expected to last until late 1983 when the contractor work
force currently at site will demobilize and all subsequent works will be
carried out by WAPDA O&M staff.
43.     The O&M program for Tarbela has been the subject of continuing
dialogue between WAPDA and the Bank with the objective of developing a fully
comprehensive scheme. WAPDA began its Tarbela O&M organization in 1975, and
the first separate budget for these activities was made in 1976. This O&M
organization has had a progressively expanded role, taking over respon-
sibilit:y and control of civil, electrical and mechanical work upon completion
by the construction contractors. Planning and implementation of the O&M
program is the responsibility of WAPDA. TAMS, the project consultant for
Tarbela, has developed the necessary monitoring organization and completed
detailed drawings, gathered manufacturers' instructions, and is currently
preparing maintenance manuals for WAPDA O&M staff. Sir Alexander Gibb and
Partners, the Bank's consultant on the Tarbela project, has been continuously
reviewing the development of the O&M program.
44.     The Tarbela O&M organization is at present severely short of required
workshop and warehouse facilities. WAPDA's plan has always been to purchase,
renovate and occupy buildings used by the Contractor during the construction
period which began in 1968 and was anticipated to end in 1974/75. However,
because of the long remedial/repair program the Contractor has continued to
occupy the buildings. Consequently, during the years of work on the
remedial/repair program, WAPDA O&M forces have used temporary and generally
inadequate facilities.
45.     The present inventory of equipment at Tarbela consists of two groups;
items acquired from the Contractor as construction was completed, supple-
mented by items purchased specifically for O&M purposes, mostly with local
funds; and equipment recently purchased (1981/82) with funds from an EEC
Special Action Credit (51-PAK). Most of the older pieces of heavy equipment
such as large trucks, dozers and cranes have reached the end of their useful
economic life and require extensive and frequent maintenance. The heavy
vehicles on hand such as buses and trucks are mostly in fair to poor condi-
tion. The light vehicles such as cars, vans, pick-ups, etc. also are mostly
in fair to poor condition. The equipment procured with EEC funds includes
eight dump trucks, one loader, two dozers, one road grader, drilling and
grouting equipment and concrete and shotcrete equipment. To date, about
US$11.2 M in foreign exchange has been made available for O&M purposes; in
January 1980 US$3.2 M was provided from insurance recoveries, in March 1980
US$6.5 M was provided from the EEC Special Action Credit (51-PAK) and US$1.5
M is available from the recently negotiated loan from Abu Dhabi.



-13-
46.     Loss of experienced and skilled personnel, principally to the Middle
East, has been a serious problem at all the reservoirs and a training program
to provide replacements is needed. At the present time on-the-job training
programs are in force at all three reservoirs but an organized program
including classroom work and of the breadth and depth required is not avail-
able. Under the EEC Special Action Credit, 25 engineers of the Tarbela O&M
organization have participated in tours to foreign countries to study and
observe methods, techniques and procedures of O&M activities as practiced in
other projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.     The project was appraised in May/June 1982.  Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. during January 1983; the Pakistan Delegation was led by
Mr. A. Wahab F. Sheikh, Secretary, Ministry of Water and Power. A report
entitled "Pakistan: Staff Appraisal Report - Reservoir Maintenance
Facilities Project" (Report No. 4152, dated February 18, 1983) is being
circulated to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
48.     The proposed project would finance a five-year (FY84 to FY88) program
to strengthen WAPDA-s capability to operate and maintain the Mangla, Chashma
and Tarbela reservoirs and related facilities. The project would: (a)
provide additional O&M equipment and replace wornout and obsolete items at
Mangla and Chashma; (b) provide buildings, equipment, vehicles, tools, spare
parts and other items required at Tarbela to insure the safe and dependable
operation and maintenance of that project; (c) provide technical assistance,
primarily for institution building, in the areas of stores and procurement
organization and management, workshop organLzation and management and main-
tenance records management; (d) provide a training center together with
assistance in training techniques and curriculum planning for middle
managers, supervisors, skilled technicians and apprentices; (e) provide
foreign training, study tours and training Ln Pakistan for engineers and
technicians; and (f) provide technical assistance in carrying out the first
(1984) and second (1987) safety inspections of the Tarbela project.
Equipment, Materials, Vehicles and Spare Parts
49.     The project would include a wide range of equipment, materials,
vehicles, supplies and spare parts to complete the basic O&M plant at Tar-
bela. Six items of earth-moving and heavy mobile equipment would be provided
at Mangla; some of these would replace existing equipment which is beyond
economic repair and some would be additional equipment, the need for which



-14-
has been determined by the experience of operating and maintaining the Mangla
facilities since 1967. Eight items of heavy mobile equipment would be
provided at Chashma Barrage. All of these items would be additional equip-
ment, the need for which has been determined by the experience of operating
and maintaining the Chashma facilities since 1971.
Workshops and Warehouses
50.     The Tarbela O&M organization is short of required workshop and
warehouse facilities. The project would finance both renovation of existing
buildings and construction of new buildings.
Technical Assistance and Training
51.     The project would include technical assistance in the following
fields (27 man/months at about US$10,000 per m/m):  (i) technical training (6
m/m); (ii) stores and procurement organization and management (6 m/m); (iii)
workshop organization and management (6 m/m); (iv) maintenance programming
and ma:intenance records management (6 m/m); and (v) communications (3 m/m).
Although the technical assistance would primarily be provided at the Tarbela
project, staff members from Mangla and Chashma projects would also benefit
from the technical assistance. WAPDA would employ suitably qualified con-
sultants for the above assignments on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank and in accordance with Bank guidelines (Section 2.02 of the draft
Project Agreement).
52.     The project would provide a properly designed and constructed train-
ing center at Tarbela with an area of about 3,500 sq. ft., together with
necessary equipment and training aids. In addition, technical assistance in
training techniques and curriculum planning would be provided. This training
center would serve WAPDA's entire O&M organization.
53.     The project would also include:  (a) foreign training of 27 engineers
and 9 technicians needed in 13 special areas, most of which relate to equip-
ment management, operation and maintenance; (b) study tours of foreign
projects needed for certain resident engineers and supervisors to observe and
study maintenance facilities, procedures and management techniques; and (c)
training in Pakistan of 40 engineers and 22 technicians needed in 7 special
areas. WAPDA would formulate and maintain a training program based on its
experience under the proposed project. A plan for such a training program
would be furnished to the Bank for review by December 31, 1984 (Section 2.01
of the draft Project Agreement).
Dam Inspection
54.     The reservoirs included in the proposed project would be periodically
inspected to determine the soundness of the structures and the adequacy of
maintenance and the methods of operations (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan



-15-
Agreement). The project would include the necessary specialists (10
man/months at about US$35,000 per m/m including fees, salaries and travel)
to carry out the first and second dam safety inspections at Tarbela, and deep
diver services (4 man/months at about US$7,000 per m/m) for these inspec-
tions.
Project Cost
55.     Total project costs for the 5-year implementation period are
estimated at US$42.0 M, including US$15.6 M equivalent in taxes and duties
and excluding the Bank front end fee. About 90% of the total represents
investments for Tarbela (US$37.8 M); 6% for Mangla (US$2.1 M); and 4% for
Chashma (US$1.2 M). Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$24.0 M, or
about 57% of total project costs. Base costs are calculated in December 1982
prices. Physical contingencies, which relate primarily to equipment, amount-
ing to 5% of total base cost, have been incLuded. Contingencies for price
escalation, equal to 21% of total base costs, have been provided in accord-
ance with projected average annual inflatio- rates for foreign costs for the
years FY83 to FY88.
Project Financing
56.     The proposed Loan of US$10.2 M would finance about 42% of foreign
exchange costs (US$24.0 M), or about 38% of total project costs net of taxes
and duties (US$26.4 M equivalent). In addition, the Loan would finance the
Bank front end fee (US$150,739) which would be capitalized into the Loan. It
is expected that remaining foreign exchange costs (US$14.0 M) would be
covered by cofinancing assistance from the United Kingdom on grant terms.
GOP and WAPDA would finance local costs estimated at US$18.0 M equivalent,
including US$15.6 M equivalent in taxes and duties. Funds for the project,
including the proceeds of the proposed Loan, would be made available to WAPDA
as part of the Annual Development program (ADP). Approval of the PC-1/l for
the project by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
(ECNEC) would be an additional condition of Loan effectiveness (Section 6.01
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Annual Financing of O&M Expenditures
57.    WAPDA would present to the Bank for its review by February 1 of each
year, beginning in 1984, a detailed annual program reflecting budget
proposals and proposed expenditures for O&M of the reservoirs and related
facilities during the subsequent fiscal year, including capital expenditures
for permanent O&M facilities (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
/1 A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal government
project appraisal document necessary for GOP approval procedures.



-16-
GOP would provide sufficient allocations, including foreign exchange, to meet
the total required annual recurrent expenditure on the reservoirs and related
facilities, including the O&M of capital infrastructure investments (Section
3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
58.     Because workshops and warehouses would be relatively small amounting
to US$2.1 M, international competitive bidding (ICB) would not be practical.
Therefore, construction and renovation would be carried out through local
competitive bidding following WAPDA procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, tools, spare parts, technical
assistance and training to be cofinanced by the U.K. would follow procedures
of the cofinancing agency. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, tools, spare
parts and supplies, amounting to about US$14.1 M, to be financed by Bank loan
funds would be by ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Furniture and
small items costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of
US$500,000, may be procured through local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Loan Diisbursements
59.     Disbursements from the Bank Loan would be made for (i) 100% of the
Bank front end fee, capitalized into the Loan; (ii) 35% of local expenditures
for buildings; (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment, vehicles and spares; (iv) 100% of expenditures (ex-factory) for
locally manufactured equipment, vehicles and spares; and (v) 60% of expendi-
tures for other locally procured equipment, vehicles, spares and furniture.
Disbursements for all items would be made against full documentation. It is
expected that the Loan would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1989, about one
year after project completion.
Institutional Arrangements
60.     The O&M organizations at each of the reservoirs included in the
project would be responsible for project implementation under the direction
of the respective Project Director/Chief Engineer at the reservoirs and under
the general supervision of the General Manager, Dams at WAPDA headquarters in
Lahore. The structure and levels of staffing of the O&M organizations are
satisfactory. However, as additional staff are recruited emphasis would be
given to recruiting staff for training and procurement activities.
Monitoring and Evaluation
61.     Monitoring.  WAPDA would be responsible for monitoring the proposed
project by collecting, reviewing and evaluating information regarding the
physical and- financial aspects of the project. The O&M organizations at
Mangla, Chashma and Tarbela would each prepare Quarterly and Annual Progress
Reports and submit them to General Manager, Dams, WAPDA Headquarters within



-17-
30 days of the end of the reporting period. Copies would also be sent to
the Bank.
62.     Evaluation would assess the impact cf the proposed project on the
capability and effectiveness of the O&M organizations to carry out their work
and to insure proper care, dependable performance and safety of the reser-
voirs and their related facilities. The evaluation capability of WAPDA-s
Dams Monitoring Organization makes it a satisfactory organization to under-
take such work. A program for evaluation would be prepared and submitted for
review and approval of the Bank and the U.K. by September 30, 1983. Annual
progress reports and a final Project Evaluation Report would be submitted
within two and four months, respectively, oi the close of each reporting
period.
Benefits and Risks
63.     Bank experience has confirmed that O&M investments have relatively
high economic rates of return, frequently exceeding 50%. The investments
under the proposed project are urgently needled to protect substantial exist-
ing infrastructure. In the case of the Tarbela Dam, a major portion of
Pakistan's agricultural area lies below the dam; a failure would cause incal-
culable damage and an interruption in water availability for irrigation and
power generation which could have a disastrous impact on Pakistan's economy.
The project-s O&M expenditures for Tarbela represent only 1% of past invest-
ments. It would not be meaningful, therefore, to calculate an economic rate
of return on the proposed project. Instead, the importance of these reser-
voirs, especially Tarbela, to the Pakistan economy has been re-evaluated.
64.     Hydroelectric projects and dam/barrage facilities on the Indus and
its tributaries figure prominently in the economy of Pakistan. Such
facilities account for over half of Pakistan-s current power generation
capacity (hydroelectric and thermal). The power plant at Tarbela with
installed capacity of 1400 MW represents about 55% of present total
hydroelectric power capacity and about 30% of the nation's total generating
capacity. It is visualized that the generating capacity at Tarbela could be
further increased to over 3,000 MW. Mangla, with 800 MW of installed
capacity, also makes a significant contribution to national electric power
supply.
65.     In terms of irrigation benefits, the main purpose of the reservoirs
at Tarbela, Mangla and Chashma is to store water in the summer flood season,
when river discharges are greatly in excess of irrigation requirements, for
use in the rabi (winter) season, when the nmain food crops are grown but
natural river flows are low and variable. In addition, these facilities
enable regulation of river discharges so as to achieve better synchronization
of canal deliveries with crop water requirements. The reservoirs, Tarbela in
particular, have thus made possible a significant expansion of the rabi
cropped area, as well as facilitated yield improvements.



-18-
66.      Tarbela, providing about 12.3 BCM of irrigation releases annually,
services a system of canal commands of about 8.8 M ha, about 44% of the
nation-s cultivated area and 53% of its irrigated area. By 1979/80 the rabi
cropped area within the system had expanded to 4.0 M ha, a 23% increase over
the average 1970/71-1974/75 pre-Tarbela area of 3.2 M ha. About 75% of this
increment was attributable to increased rabi water availabilities made pos-
sible by Tarbela, the balance being mainly due to increased exploitation of
groundwater resources. By 1980, about 80% of the incremental rabi area
attributable to Tarbela water was planted to wheat, producing about 800,000
tons of incremental grain, or about 22% of the national increase (3.6 M tons)
over pre-Tarbela levels (7.2 M tons). At present, incremental rabi irriga-
tion supplies from Tarbela are estimated to provide about Rs 1,500 M p.a. in
net agricultural production benefits. Based on a new analysis of the Tarbela
project, and considering all incurred and projected capital and recurrent
costs and power and agricultural benefits, the economic rate of return on the
Tarbela project is estimated at about 12.5%.
67.      The proposed project, by establishing necessary capital facilities
and enhancing technical expertise for O&M programs at Tarhela, Mangla and
Chashma, would help assure the safety of these structures, and thus continua-
tion of their vital power and agricultural benefits to Pakistan's economy.
68.      There are no significant risks associated with the proposed project.
Regarding Tarbela, given its unprecedented size and complexity, the pos-
sibility cannot be ruled out that further technical problems may arise. To
minimize this risk, the Tarbela project is being monitored continuously with
the assistance of an elaborate system of surveying and recording equipment.
It is expected that, with the measures already taken or planned, including
the investments and institution-building proposed under this project, future
problems will be relatively routine and manageable.
69.      In addition to the immediate task of ensuring that the Tarbela
project: is completed and functions satisfactorily, intensive efforts will be
required to reap the full benefit of the additional irrigation water from the
project. This will require, inter alia, complementary downstream invest-
ments, strengthening of agricultural extension services, provision of inputs,
improvement of water management and appropriate government pricing policies.
These requirements are being addressed by other projects assisted by the Bank
as well as in the context of the ongoing Structural Adjustment Loan and
Credit..
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and
the Barnk, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and WAPDA and the



-19-
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The approval by ECNEC of the P'C-1 document for the project would
be an additional condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
71.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
72.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 22, 1983



-20-                                               ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
AREA (ThOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             803.9                                   MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      249.9                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (U1$)                     70.0        130.0     300.0                261.4                     890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       132.4        190.6      209.2                448.7                     701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45851.0        60449.0   82153.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1           24.9       28.2                 17.3                      32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         134.5
STATIONARY POPL'ATION (MILLIONS)                           308.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         57.0         75.2       99.2               158.1                     255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    200.4          248.9      316.9               355.9                    1748.0
POPULATION AOE SIRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.8         46.3       46.5                36.8                      39.9
15-64 YRS.                           51.8         50.5       50.7                59.7                      56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.4          3.2        2.8                  3.5                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.3          2.8        3.1                  2.0                       2.3
URBAN                                4.6          4.0        4.3                  3.3                       3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       51.3         47.4       43.6                29.3                      31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.3         19.9       16.0                 11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATS                3.7          3.5        3.0                  2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..      1908.1    2085.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..        6.0/c              19.3                      36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            89.0        102.0      101.0               108.1                     115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     87.8         97.1       98.8/d              97.3                     106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            58.1         59.8       62.8/d              56.9                      54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         23.3         20.1       19.97T              20.0                      13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       25.4         21.5       17.8                 10.9                       6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.3           46.2       49.8                 57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            161.5        143.0      125.5                 89.1                      63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        21.0       29.0                32.9                      32.0
URBAN                                            77.0       60.0                70.7                      51.9
RURAL                                  ..         4.0       17.0                22.2                      20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POFULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         3.0        6.0                18.1                      37.7
URBAN                                  ..        12.0       21.0                72.7                      65.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 4.7                      24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            5396.8       4299.1/f  3775.1/e,f           3297.8                    8540.4
POPULATION PER NIURSING PERSON    16961.8       13306.0o7  10030.3Te,f          4929.3                    4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1794.5       1860.1    1903.4/e,f           1100.4                    1047.5
URBAN                              506.8        648.1      712.9/e f           301.3                     651.6
RURAL                                  ..     12478.5   11870.1/e,f           581,5.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..         ..                   ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4          5.3
IRBAN                                5.6          5.5         .
RURAL                                5.4          5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                3.1          2.8/g
URBAN                                3.1          2.77        .  
RURAL                                3.1          2.87        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  *         1779/8
URBAN                                            54.4/g
RURAL                                             4.9/        '



-21-
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                Page  2
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
PAKISTAN                              -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0      56.0                 97.4                 96.2
MALE                  46.0         62.0       81.0               101.0                 99.8
FEMALE                13.0         24.0       31.0                87.8                 92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0     1.0                  53.0                 37.6
MALE                  18.0         22.0       21.0                63.8                 41.1
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0        5.0                41.3                 34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OP SECONDARY)   1.0            I.5        1.4                 1.7                 20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.6         41.5      40.1                 37.7                 35.5
SECONDARY                           24.0         19.8      13.7                 20.2                 25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0/h       20.7/i    24.0                 52.1                 73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.5          2.6       2.8/c                1.5                  9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         17.1      65.8                 35.4                116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          1.6       9.4                  3.2                 37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   13.2           ..       1.7                 16.4                 53.7
CINEMiA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8           3. /0      ;.4                 3.6                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.7        17364.1   2271i.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3      10.2                 29.5                 33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         59.0      5;.0                 70.0                 52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         19.0      2C.0                 15.0                 17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7       27.7                40.0                 38.5
MALE                                  55.2         50.4      47.2                 51.8                 50.5
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5        f.9                23.8                 26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.0                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/k         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.37/k        41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.47k          8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57k         20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         68.0/i   176.0                133.8                194.7
RURAL                                 ..         47.071i  122.0                111.5                155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         34.0/i    88.0                   ..                178.2
RURAL                                 ..         22.071    58.0                   ..                164.9
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..         42.0/i    32.0                 43.8                 24.4
RURAL                                 ..         43.d7T    29.0                 51.7                 41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighited arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and Ls not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1978 and .980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1973;
/h 1962; /i 1972; /i 1968; /k 1964.
May, 1982



-22-
ANNEX I
Page 3
DEFNIITIOIIS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
I-tlnlyrs-parable  betuase ofthela_tof tseae ddefolnlinss    raretssdhy,diftfeetesstlee  Sne-a1lleeisgtlbedt.Te.aa
theles... tife1 I.t  descibe c-de-  cI magnitude, indicat  treds. and  c-ra   ersc   rtl  njor diffe__renos_s
Theefs            ...e.r.ps.. I.  .hesa.ec...try...uyof the..b...t  .....tya.d..la                        ...tr    oespihss-eehathigh-rvea        I ssct- hast1hraoteyesa
attIre  s,bjeetrentry  leeept to    "high Income    i tSse..eters'' group nice  "iddlis Istoe sNeth"Air lesd e ldale test'J ith-se   b-ac
naoiyof theeeitti      tu    a   aateca   niao.Sinc_te _eIeog of nonea    nn fhe, mdsaos  eed  ontt  aol a1I t   iat
end innuiifr,cuto            Imstha _tIse--aassaaS-e  of oneindieat-rtoa...th.,.  Theseusaragat.r   an. lyus                                      IInnna lngit-seia of
ANA  thb .t...aad  -qk..)                                                                             Fn aispe- Au-sria   a  -ttl  uran  ad  uui                          1 dF tisno ati
Total -  .,Ito)  ufacea- o I   eun- rtsing  -ssd are  and Isls-aie 1; 79I data                       -rba-  and  -eral   Idindd  ythi          c-petsntes fupia  bd
Agittl-Estimate nOagirlea   area used -tooepaiiy  -e pareanently,                            a-ilable  in pubilcadpenb   genral ant  specie  ed bui I1l and et-
for  rups. patern. saket and ki-ch- gadns-n  ie  falon   1979 data-                          habi  IfatIon   centrs-   Anspital    ..r  ..stblisi,st  pers...  ent.. y safed
6SF FER CAPITA (US$) - Cis  pe  'apli" estimates at eucrent n-tk"  peea  ea-                            dial core  ..s..t incledad-   ERaI ):sapitala, h-ne- r,ntids  Mitaih
-elstd by sane  netr..  Ioni serhd aa beed tank itlan  II1...-ID basin); 1960.                       and sedie-l ce-se   IntI emaa              -ffstEd by a phyelcla,n  Ibsi bya
lA70, and 1900 da ta.                                                                                  edtei- .. aaA--n l...ure   aidibf. e-y.)  hich after isl-pat.f              -.
dation ted Pr-ide a lieittd eanit of esada -          t5iti        Fee nIai
ENERCY CONSUMPTFION PER CAPITA- Anna ..        nnt  onoIsesrcaI  nry   ea)sel P.,te  ubanho                                        pt I             Winlde HOt peiieepa1/gene ..  I",p`tal
trnt)in  iuia     -oftalessytpar c-pino; 1960. 1970,..ad 19)9                                   ctt-Spee tatlseed hompisa1le ar  lIneludad nety eda   oa
data -                                                                                               dinsnn  e  goebl de   - Tntlf neeber as ada1insian  Id      disc hurtaa
FOFUOLADION MDE VITAI. STOTISTICS
TDote  Pnrelatiun. Mid-Dear_)thn-atds   - As of julY I; 1960, 1970. and 19A0                     HOUSING
dta.                                                                                           Aors  Se   f Ho.e.hnld  y  lm.sapehoet-od) -total,  urb4an.aderl
cebsn  orolanon Ipeeest o  total  -RSaic of s-ba   e  int II,   ppoplation;               A househod  oeises o f a graspofIdeselshshape  inlg-                       ertr
differen   de  ntos0  e  a   ra   ay affect conp...oiIly of dat                            -       ad title  sam   saaln-   A boarder at_ndgor may -t may set is  i-cIaded In
Fepalation Prolacilons                                                    Annraaencsber~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,p,ersont Fur room-tet a), cebenA, ted- rurolI.    -.e.s.erage 5o5.d ...  --
potel1ttin  by .og  and ten and thaisttIey  ndteteos   rtsdelnt.Resectsly    Onllng  ecud1r no -ytrmaesssesceeaad
Ist f  _np_ct_s  at bIrth itetn   aih conr'   a  cpt   nne                                   eeantecrc                prent sEnliIgl-oa,abn   s   ua 
and fenale1 Iieenetac   ntsilno   at71.5 yaarm -  Tie para-                             Cosstinl  )elig   nbdc rniyI  lrngqateaa
fe-tilith accoding to Inco-   lce  and pass fisallypann   peroean-
Each e...tr isyl   htie  asigned- one e   hase ntei     onI- os  a             Imrtl tr     tOOATION
ad ofeetlifyt_edg  f-rrjeln   scgs                                                           Adt..edtEnroiisntiRatios
Stationar  tuptlatin-ta -to io..ary pnpa;acinnc'he...Isso ,,,ehslic                        Frisaryeehnol -tn-.I.lesn.dtemac-1rosi -i1t.ma                   dasEesie
tiebtrtirsee  lseqalnethe  drashrat,asdasIII        intererre                          ero)llsentsIallagts-atehe  prl ayleeI""                aetsaesfrs."Ti"'
maIns..   ean    Tnie  isa-hiened'n1y aSter finilitYrae   deeil ten                                prar    colaspnpelatl...; see-aly  tldsrsde    ged 6-il
of _ssen replace   I_el         -1cy.  TIe  thenry poplttoostese                                      ...sti_ i ath snf_rna Idacico   erllma_   may  Itediipecn
esimated onl tin  hoots of  h   rjee    haasrise  shepapla..                                        Ince som   .pepin at  be1- or ah1oe  thnufflialsho  age
lnthr yeard200, and threaee ofsde-1nri.ofeftili,lotrateoreplate-                                Scdayhnl -tuna),                      I sennfesale- Conputdass bos-sted-ar
.11nI   b  reached-u ..el  of 11 to 17 year- of at   orsodnetesmaegselY
PoEaenin enity                                                                                          - ee lded-
Pe   q  k.-Nd-year pepelatton per sq-at  kilomete  0100 hecieres) of                                                       ,,aInlarlset)ecn   ...cndrt  I V..s lnI   Is  Atsn
En-a  are; 1960, 1910 and 1919 da.                                                               innlda technical.  _ndeel I. or  tie   reoieas ableh oparat  tdeped-
oslo; f196.  1911 and 1979 data.                                                              Fci  tairrti  -primar, andisetgdar-yDat,o alstdeih                       se idI
Poralatins bit S___eer  )per-et I  Childron  (0-i4 year).  -ekn-g    1-prmr   n eondar   lasededdby naeso   enesI   h
iyer)ad r.tired  )65 Faartend nse)as  percentateofsid-t-repopu-                             cnesedtngiesev.j
leo ; 160 , 1910  and 098  dat..AutItsenrt   rret       Ieaeautuctet   ededaie
FPePlatinn Clthti . te)e -rce -tI-taL-Anneal  -reth rate  oflnta1mid-                               asalparett5sfctstdlppio                        naitdl5;aIII   te_ deotr
Fo.pesanion  rGoth tate lrereent  - urban-Annea   grebsh rates of -bhan pope                     CONS1.9PTION
lotions for 19)0-ho.1960-70. and1970-Al.                                                         Fasetr Caps )pa thbaat..dppasil-Feegrtreopeemts
Crede Birth Eas     -ereead) - Anneal  lisa bitths per ehoesand of atd-yeas                          IasetIng  lens that  ashi p.r.....  oe-lde  asbelne.herssd
Foaat 9; 90  170,..er  1980 dat-                                                          tssr  shcln
Crada teeth tat  Ipe ht-esad) - Annua  deaths pe  th.....d  01g-erEdggrlas)prheodpAlt )-II tpsofeeies te -rdio
pplto;1960. 1910, and 1980 data.                                                          "rcAdceattngeeralpublic"per itnee ad ofI                pltio   sldta
Ptnsseercetgintas- A-er9gnuebarofdaegtbar   a sn-a  sill hear in Iene    eaee   nnes  e  an  I  yardbetreistaIon  riedIa
tiIity ease;  ...ally tin-year  --eragen endi"IngS1 1            197.O an"d 1980                   son   mse tism  a-.inlhed licening
FomileF'Is..itg-b~ert-r., Asn... It(oe..nds) - Annaon                herIc--  fac-ptor             TV itee_tner     petinuaadpnpelasbnnI)-f'-ieeteats   t brr-d-asnia
sfieitoentdelsaoder sespic-  of ntoa  fasl)yptan,ningptsirs.-gnera  pubIc iperhousand popalatic                                                   niadessnI I..tsedfhVreceistt
Fatylnns-sr    .p.eesI ofmarie~da....n.-....e...gtonseidine ..str.iesend iyaseersi aIooffTyset.a.s.                                                                f
gossn   f child-bssrit0a0aI  11~5-44yat)  mueS rieas                                              H deicet  ...pepr Ciecl-asil me  pt  thousad fp.a  n)-tnateaeaete
al   aeid Iama    -nnm  age grnap.                                                            .......e I)  d'dily..... t     ...i neremsI neaai", asfIned  sn etdstei
pellaindvnnid pemril fin recor..d  t  genera  ns.It L.scnssde...d
FOWD AND0 NUTRITION                                                                                    en he "delyl" if it appears as  seat  I_our           .  _laai~.
Indeg of Foed Fr-deeien 2_2 apt   199l-lOt                    Inan  of per  ,spi, anneal           Cinem   Annual Aste.dndae e,       Cti   e   ea-BasdIsthe                   ofbe  e
prydnenen  aS al fngd  osassdiiaa.  Prdarioneteladasses   an d teed and                 tiken  -oid daring  tieya.inldn Goudtm n  Idrisa-i  sIsea
Ia enrladrya  Satin   '     b1:. CmaiieeeIpimr   od  leg.u sareen                                  and  _btile Inia..
testedsoftogarl,hithe eds  Icondcotetn rien                      (e-ceIse  and
tea are  -tlu.dd).  Aggragate Prod ettien  of  -1,h  --etr  in basd n                         LABOR FORCE
natinne1 an_rgs pedec..  presaeiti; 1961-65. 1910, and 1900 data.                                -oa ao  Pace  )thn...a-ds I    ecne1ely Instrpese-                     iI,1edieg
For capits  _apiy of snoisIse                f-reqieesne. I - Competed feam                          armed sress end  ..enplnyad but etcleing  hInoele,te                   .et
-negy eqioasof ne  food suppyli te -nillable i so ..ente  pe  cap_ita                              conino pepelasIns of all aoIo.   Ofiniti,,ns  an v.fi... esnoris  r
e_ day.  OA-ilsbls seppli le      -oprise de---atit peoduetion, imports lest                       not c- -rele; 1960, 1970 and 1980 date.
taens,an ,easasin                 -pr  a  scLi-s anlde animal teed, seds,                  Female Ipeteynn   - Femalr lame- Ioy---aI  pe r-atgeoota, ff,i lat-  fssue.
qunitie  e_d in led pr_esng  and I.s..t in distrdibutio-   Rsqcir-                              ugricltu-  Ire-cons  - 1Labor force- inlahug ortts  b in, and
maes-re eat matd by FAO basd o   hyse .g.o  nedsfr .r,-I aeni-                                    fl,istig at pllr cotag. If tn-1 labor laity; 160. 1910 and 1980 deta -
nity and ieihenisig encIenenaltnerte   bd.aihe   ge                                                 nueyIecn      LaIbor fIree  in ing                 ntrelesnfaeis
and sen d   Isirhei..on   f torelanln, and alospin  10 pecnooasetad  laclreitisy.aster asd .ea as perens                                                ofn tos)-    bs ors
h.e.ehold I..sl; lOl-bD   1910 and 1917 dabs,                                                       1960.  1070 end 190da
Per _astia neP"i  nO  F_nO        N_re  yen das-Foei    onten  of pe           ietta              Fritaingt   prtt      oal    at  n   sa   -etIiassu
ntspply ofInd parday    e  nyl  of land t.n de,,l sad aaicee    Re-                            a-tlity rate  s-  -oee-d as  -,o, sale. o,d fonlt 1labor fIIeea
allo......e.  60 by   - ara f o - tal -posIn pe  day and 20 gres of stie1 and                       1960, 1970. and 19A1 dat.   Dime  t   ae   n  L'   atcissc ae
p.J.. pr ioti. of ,hch 00 gras  sheel1d be animal pretyS.    haemtnd-                              reflectingae-a  -strelr   ci ebh' yool o ad lung tisa  t-s.A
anmi_ prtena    atn ragfoseerd.  proysedhtbytFAO ebMThird                                      tc-noitoDp2-do.ntt,  I a.- Ro,iI fc.pu           -lced-enb -a6Oh          - ondnnr
_snd Fend Saay   961_i5, 1970 nsa 1910 Sacs.                                                       toeteinbal. labor farc.
Fe paiareotein   ercfnsaia   n  pn)I -F-sotesn  sa,pply as food de-
rIse fMins,  aimal  and remnopes erdy    i9-6 , 170 and 1917 data.                              OttCOE  DISTRIBUTION
Child lao-  I0-C  teeth gate Ipe ot heesand) -:Ans         Ieah    e  thousan.d isFretu fPLaeIncome )b,os1, i~ t;-ah and kied) - Aeloe-d by ricEMi,
rneecp1-  ysstoeh.l.... intIaetrnap.toratdetolneu- .ecetrchs   0  ecnt   oret     per-anl .ad p--c 40 Cp-r-st
trIes deta d-ri-dlesif  tolt               .90, 191  and 1980 dana.                                yI househods.
EAELD5                                                                                             FOVERTO TaARGT GROUPS
Lift to pecIhnec at Bjr-b lnr)-Aeseage nusat sof years of Ife, resotning                           rofoOl -iog aec, Imce  are cery  penIa               otteo  p-irlcey l- I..
05hri  1960  170 and i980 data                                                                and should beinopreeI          tco   .n I, .'   derbleauin
Inatsrtocite RaeIre  tIhou...d) - bAnes  deacha of InI ants ader one y-re                     Estimated Absolute FncI t fX_n-yme Les)111  e is          rnal -aian_ad see I 
oagpeteead lIne, bitten;. 160,170ad 1980 data.                                       -   bsernryIncest  ... enII is tha  Incom                             "'ehb-aniamnIa
bar of people  Isnea. aeba, and rera) aishresaba ces toad-fe                                        ffl,ordble.1
naenpl    IIdcle  1den      ..oseaef-c iase  erasd.bet en-esnainaed                      Estimatd Noain    eernI-eteoc)15  teejLS$y   esjti)  -bnrb ansd rurl1
as-erneebanthat fro  plotretedtarainss,sprNn.ood IaitayeIflsR gralee111lain   pesarey Itn  laai6.r-Llird ofeeerae  pertepita
perecntasa   of ehei c-rmp-citn   popellai-no    lnaserbaord           apbltpersnlInem   clbauety. Ceba  IoselIs drgeed f- ro hi  enol1
ton ider_d Ie being  -hisi   reao..nabe  eas   f  a   Soae seral e..a                            Estimated Popcleno- Biele        I beI'le Fo-ret  Ileceme      1 fees    lmr-ss   - teAse
-  ono  bl occs  seald isply nhat she h..e.eeife er mabe   of the heeehold                      aed rural - Fercnty pII         otn   lorbint and reel) e. are 0ab5olate 
d       h.satse-edaIdineeopnr,ti..nto p-rnofhodoar t  fsleehenethe                             mo-".
family'    ae   -tds.
, sbrnpeyi)tot-1,ecrho. and ,rato)!need byescreradispaseia
P-0-o these naree_lve pepelacinno.. tn-- dispysal nay telede
Ill-d a    .ante-saerby easer-born   syseis  or the  -ot  of   I pride   adstl
lar intoa    ltigyn.
"P'uainn rein Physician  - Popolatiso  disided bY  .eb. o- :practislng  phyni-                                                             icngcad Socbial Dat  Dlsts ee
etaosae-lifiedfromane dicls1e-hos1 atesi- ety ee..                                                                                  enstuaysisand Peej-ti.ns  Depspt-a
Potelsten fe nursss Fenen  -Fepetat- dflnldd by  oefs ... pracisteg                                                                             sa   981
mae  ndfaal  pndat--se. a nnssnace.-o nures,  eae ea  stnsad



-23-
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMFNT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%0, constant prices)
US$ billion    %                   1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices               31.68      100.0                       3.5                6.3             5.0
Gross Domestic Investment           5.14        16.2                     -5.5                5.4            11.9
Gross National Saving               3.70        11.7                     -2.1                8.2             8.0
Current Account Balance            -1.53       -4.8
Resource Gap                       -3.48      -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /a
Value Added           Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    %    US$ million    %    ITSS million    x
Agriculture                        7,825        29         13.5       5L          580        58
Industry                           6,827       26           5.2       20        1,313       131
Services                          12,053       45           7.9       29        1,526       152
Total/Average                   26,705      100         26.6      100        1,004        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                                 Central Government
(Rs billion)             % of GDP                 (Rs billion)             % of GDP
1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-19/l-82           1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-198i/82
Current Recepts                     51.2           15.9           15.8                39.0           12.1            12.4
Current Expenditures                44.4           13.8           14.1                34.1           10.6            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              6.8            2.1            1.7                 4.9            1.5             1.8
Capital Expendtures                 27.0            8.4            9.3                21.2            6.6             7.4
External Assistance (net)            6.3            2.0            2.8                 6.3            2.0             2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82 b/
Money and Ouasi Money                           33.1     41.6       51.7     63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)              17.5     22.7      29.5      34.3      43.1      48.1      54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)           19.7     23.1      30.1      35.7      42.7      50.6      58.7      70.7
Money and Quasi Money as % GDP                  29.5     31.5       34.6      36.7     39.0      38.3      37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70=100)           211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    35R.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                           23.6       8.6      11.3       6.3       6.7       9.3      13.3      11.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)              21.2      29.4      18.8      16.6     25.6      11.6      12.5      10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)           26.3      17.3      30.3      18.6      19.6     18.5      16.0      20.4
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b  Provisional
February 1983



-24-                                                      ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million)                                   MERCHIANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1981/82)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81 /a  1981/82                                          US$ million           z
Exports of Goods, NFS               1,404    1,651    2,107    2,951    3,461              2,966        Raw Cotton                       260.5           11.5
Imports of Goods, IFS               2,877    3,297    4,485    5,709         6,466        6,613         Cotton Yarn                      181.3            8.0
Cotton Cloth                     230.4           10.2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)         -1,473   -1,646   -2,378   -2,754   -3,005            -3,847         Rice                             382.7           17.4
All Other Commodities         1,196.9            52.9
Interest Payments                    -172      -183      -261       -285      -357          -453          Total                        2,261.8          100.0
Workers' Remittances                  578    1,166    1,395        1,748    2,097          2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)            15         62       134       151       274           345                 EXTERNAL DEBT, DECFMBER 31, 1981
Net Transfers                           ..        ..        ..        .
USS million
Balance on Current Account         -1,052      -601   -1,110   -1,140         -991       -1,530
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed           8,813.9
Direct Foreign Inovtment               ..        ..        ..        ..         ..           ..        Non-guaranteed Private Debt /e
Net M0.T Borrowing
Disbursements                       961       841       813    1,134         956        1,102           Total Outstanding and Disbursed           8,813.9
Amortization                       -175      -122      -235      -310       -516         -492
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/P2 /f
Sub-Total                           786       719       578        824       440          610                                                    Percentage
Transactions with IMP/b                44         41       -14        78       315           358
Public D)ebt, Includiog Guaranteed            12.2
Other Items n.e.i. /c                  24        163       238       600       527           364        Non-guaranteed Private Debt                      ..
Increase in Reserves (-)              198      -322        308      -362      -291           198          Total                                        12.2
Gr3ss Reserves (year end)/d           372       694        386       748    1,039            841        I3RD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 1981) (USS million)
IBRD    IDA
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                     1.6       1.7       1.8        1.8       1.8           1.8        Outstanding and Disbursed               310.3   908.8
Undisbursed                              32.1   505.3
Outstanding, Including Undisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                     413       497        539    1,237    1,602          1,683
Petroleum Exports                      27        63         61       178       160           185
Rate of Exchange
Through Ntay 11, 1972    Mlay 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973    Feb. 15, 1973-Jan. 7, 1982              January 8-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
UTS$ = Rs 4.7619               US$ = Rs 11.00                      US$ = Rs 9.90                        IJS$ = Rs 11.46
Rsl = US$0.2100                Rsl = US$0.0909                     Rsl = USS0.1010                      Rs  = 0.087
/a  Government estimate.
/b  Including Trust Fund.
/c  Including net short-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
7   Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
7e  Private debt is negligible.
If  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and worker's remittances;
not including short-term or IMF changes.
/g  Since January 8, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Not available.



-25-
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                     (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                   Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Eighty-four loans and credits fully disbursed /a          635.8           720.7/e
1107       1975   Fourth Sui Northern Gas                  53.0            --       0.7
1208T     1976   Power (Second WAPDA)                            32.0      --       1.6
620        1976   Seed Project                            --               23.0    6.5
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply               --              26.6    4.6
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)         --              14.0    6.7
1366T      1977   Livestock Development (Punjab)          --    10.0       --       9.3
1372)     1977   Railways                                 35.0             --       1.0
684 )     1977   Railways                                                  25.0    1.1
678        1977   Third Education                         --               15.0    7.0
751        1977   Hill Farming Development                 --               3.0    1.6
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation          --               70.0   68.8
755        1978   Hazara Forestry Pre-investment                            1.7    1.4
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.               --               12.5    7.2
846        1978   Fauji Fertilizer                                         55.0    3.4
867        1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development               --              30.0    0.9
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                  60.0   58.5
892        1979   Primary Education                       --               10.0    8.3
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --               9.0    9.0
957        1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP)         --               30.0   10.8
968        1980   Power (Third WAPDA)                      --              45.0   36.6
974        1980   Third Highway                           --               50.0   39.7
1019      1980   Development Finance (PICIC XI)           --               40.0   16.9
1109/d    1981   Vocational Training                      --               25.0   24.8
1113/d    1981   Small Industries                         --               30.0   29.9
11577     1981   Grain Storage                            --               32.0   32.0
1158/d    1981   Agricultural Research                    --               24.0   24.0
1163/d    1981   On-Farm Water Management                 --               41.0   38.8
11867    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)          --               30.0   30.0
2122       1982   Telecommunication IV                    40.0             --      40.0
2166       1982   Structural Adjustment                    60.0                    59.1
2172/f    1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                 __      38.5
1239Wg Id 1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                   40.0   40.0
1243/b /d 1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.           --              14.0   14.0
1255/d    1982   Structural Adjustment Credit             --               80.0   80.0
12567?7    1982   Technical Assistance Credit (SAL)    --                   7.0    7.0
1278/d    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                 --               50.0   50.0
Totalv                                                    862.3  22.0  1,613.5  809.7
of which has been repaid                               447.3   --        30.5
Total now outstanding                                    414.9  42.0  1,583.0
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                        --      --       --     --
Total now held by Bank-and IDA/c                         414.9  42.0  1,583.0
Total undisbursed                                         139.3  10.9    659.5  809.7
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former Fast Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  Not yet effective.
Tc  Prior to exchange adjustment.
7  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The
principal is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation.
Undisbursed amounts are computed at the August 31, 1982, rate of 1.07234.
/e  By using the rate at August 31, 1982, 1.07234, $41 million was disbursed
under Credit 1066-PAK, now fully disbursed. This amount is shown as
current principal for 1066-PAK.
/f  Effective on October 21, 1982.



-26-
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel           0.63      --       0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles                 0.75     --        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development             --     0.52       0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles               1.84    0.11       1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        19.35    0.84      20.19
1980
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food          2.40    0.38       2.78
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals and           29.00    1.82      30.82
Ltd. and Attock        Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-       1.78      --       1.78
lene bags
1980     Premier Board          Particle Board         2.70     --        2.70
Mills Ltd.
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17        3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                 3.60      --       3.60
Total Gross Commitments                     82.43    9.83       92.26
Less:  Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                 48.85    1.02      49.87
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           33.58    8.81       42.39
Undisbursed (including participants)        17.36    0.35       17.71



-27-
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works which, together with work in the downstream channel, were completed
in June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool was
completed in 1982. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the dam have
been met. Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. Con-
struction of a second power plant with four units is in progress. All
Credit proceeds have been disbursed; the Bank continues to administer the
Tarbela Development Fund.
Loan No. 1107          Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of May
15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
This project has been completed.
Loan No. 1208-T        Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30,
1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
All major works have been completed. One outstanding retention
payment for about US$650,000 is expected to be disbursed shortly.
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$2.3 Million Credit of March 29,
1976; Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Delays have continued to be experienced in the construction and
equipping of processing plants in Punjab., due mainly to disputes with civil
works contractors and structural defects in the buildings. The plant in
Sind has been completed. Field activities have made good progress.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-28-
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted but construction delays have
continued and will probably cause a further delay in project completion.
Detailed action plans to improve operational and financial performance have
recently been agreed.
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Develop-
ment Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July
31, 1984
Overall progress is about three years behind schedule due to ini-
tial delays in employing consultants, procurement problems and difficulties
in installing the subsurface collector drains. Canal remodeling, surveys
and extension services are proceeding satisfactorily. Additional equipment
is being procured to improve the rate of construction.
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date:
August 3, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983_
The reformulated project has been approved by the Executive Direc-
tors and GOP and GOPun have signed the legal documents. The contract for
the rehabilitation of the Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) has been let and
preparatory work is under way. An outstanding issue is the appointment of
three consultants to strengthen LMP management.
Loan No. 1372          Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9,
1977; Credit No. 684          Closing Date:  Decemer 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications
and signaling scheme is making good progress and the conplete network is
expected to be commissioned before mid-1983. Procurement has been com-
pleted and the total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
Credit: No. 678        Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February
18, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The project is generally making good progress. Curriculum improve-
ments have been satisfactorily carried out. Nearly all civil works con-
tracts have been completed except at Quetta and Rahim Yar Khan where con-
struction of the Agricultural Training Institutes has been delayed for
about one year due to site problems. At Sind Agricultural University
construction is also behind by one year due to initial delays in appoint-
ment of project implementation staff.



-29-
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff shortages and lack of a decision on upgrading field assis-
tants have caused implementation problems. Nevertheless, the vegetable
seed, maize production, service laboratory, training and apple production
components are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule, sig-
nificant momentum has now begun in projec: implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Progress has been made
in awarding the first civil works contracLs and obtaining necessary equip-
ment, vehicles and materials.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January
29, 1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project
activities. The Guzara socio-economic study, the chir pine forest inven-
tory and the pulping tests for chir pine have been completed. However, on
the basis of a forest resource assessment study, the immediate development
of an economically sized pulp mill had to be ruled out; the scope of the
feasibility study will therefore be broadened to include a range of
development options. Terms of reference are now being prepared and field
work on the next phase of the study will start in the Spring of 1983.
Credit No. 813          Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$
12.5 Million Credil: of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite some progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work. Implemeti-
tation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages continue to be
weak. Low salaries for village level staff and delays in recruiting con-
sultants remain problems.
Credit No. 846         Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September
14, 1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is in operation. Final disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 1982.



-30-
Credit No. 867         Toot Oil and Gas Development:  IJS$30 Million Credit
of January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Two new producing oil wells in the Toot field have recently been
completed despite very difficult drilling problems but well-drilling and
management problems persist. Project implementation is about 15 months
behind schedule. The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1981, has been
extented to March 31, 1983, to allow completion of the original 8-well
drilling program.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP)
Mardan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979;
Effective Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project has been reduced in scope and initial budgetary and
other problems have been resolved. CIDA (the project co-financier) is
assisting WAPDA in scheduling implementation activities as well as in
preparing subsurface drainage design and specifications. Although about
two years behind schedule, work is accelerating on the preparation of the
final designs and tender documents for the restructured project.  Some
contracts have been awarded.
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing steadily. Nearly all of the project
inputs including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training
have been provided. The evaluation program has been redesigned and a
comprehensive proposal for the improvement of primary education is expected
to be completed by June 1983.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979;
Effective Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 1984
Critical staff has been recruited and project inplementation has
started, although well behind schedule. Implementation of the T&V system
and research-extension linkages remain weak. Recruitment of consultants
has been delayed.



-31-
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the agricultural credit component has been
satisfactory.  The agricultural engineering training component in NWFP is
50% completed; implementation in Punjab is about to begin. Funds for ADBP
onlend- ing are about 70% disbursed and will be fully disbursed by June 30,
1983.
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January
10, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily.  Procurement schedules and construc-
tion targets for substations and transmission lines are generally being
met.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9,
1980; Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion,
one has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and
re-awarded, and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts.
Discussions are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of
technical assistance to two provincial governments to improve road main-
tenance.
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial DEvelopment:  US$40 Million Credit
of May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
About US$35 million had been autlhorized for 28 projects and US$23
million had been disbursed by September l0, 1982. PICIC-s recovery program
is on target.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7
Million Credit (US$'25 Million equivalent) of April
24, 1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project has made progress in many areas, although there has
been slow progress in the establishment of In-plant Training Advisory
Services in the provinces and in the appointment of staff for the Provin-
cial Training Boards and the National Training Development Institute. The
Government has agreed to a new timetable for appointing staff and develop-
ment of a staff training and work program for these institutions.



-32-
Credit No. 1113        Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective
Date: October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31,
1985
About $750,000 had been committed by July 1982. Selection of
consultants has been completed for the service centers and for the expert
promotion component activities; building construction and procurement of
machiLnery and equipment are in progress.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Mil-
lion equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date:
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Construction of the storage facilities is progressing satisfac-
torily although there have been delays in hiring of consultants and staff,
and in making training arrangements.
Credit No. 1158        Agricultural Research:  SDR 33.4 IMillion Credit
(US$24 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1986
Most of the staff required to operate the project have been
recruited and the procedures to appoint a consultancy firm to provide
technical assistance are well advanced. Preliminary selections have been
made for the first 40 overseas training fellowships. Architects have been
appointed, designs for civil works completed and construction commenced at
the National Agricultural Research Center.
Credit No. 1163        On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1984
This Credit was declared effective on March 30, 1982.
Credit No. 1186        Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan  (IDBP
II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million equiv-
alent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date: June
14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on June 14, 1982.
Loan Nqo. 2122         Fourth Telecommunications:  US$40 Million Loan of
April 13, 1982; Effective Date: June 9, 1982; Clos-
ing Date: June 30, 1987
This Loan was declared effective on June 9, 1982.



-33-
Loan No. 2166           Structural Adjustment:  US$60 Million Loan of  June
23, 1982; Effective Pate: September 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
This Loan was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Loan No. 2172           Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation:  US$38.5 Million
Loan of June 23, 1982; Effective Date: October 21,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on October 21, 1982.
Credit No. 1239         Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation:  SDR 33.5 Million
Credit (US$40 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: May 15, 1983; Closing Date: Decemr
ber 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1243        Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Project: SDR 12.5 Million Credit (US$14
Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982; Effective Date:
January 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1988
This Credit was declared effective on January 5, 1983.
Credit No. 1255        Structural Adjustment:  SDR 71.9 Million Credit
(US$80 Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effec-
tive Date: September 9, 1982; Closing Date: Decemr-
ber 31, 1983
This Credit was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Credit No. 1256        Technical Assistance:  SDR 6.3 Million Credit (US$7
Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effective Date:
September 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Credit No. 1278        Railways XI:  SDR 44.3 Million Credit (US$50 Million
equivalent) of July 13, 1982; Effective Date: Sep-
tember 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on September 13, 1982.
Loan No. 2218          Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project:
(Us$12 Million Loan of January 17, 1983; Effective
Date: April 17, 183; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Loan is not yet effective.



-34-
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJFCT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
SectiLon I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  10 months
(b)  Agency which has prepared project:  WAPDA
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank and first Bank mis-
sion to consider the project: January 1982
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: May 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: February 2, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1983
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Condition of Effectiveness
Approval of the PC-1 by ECNEC (paragraph 56)
Other Conditions
(a) Continuation of a training program by WAPDA and presen-
tation to the Bank of a plan for such training program
by December 31, 1984 (paragraph 53);
(b) Periodic inspection of the reservoirs by independent
teams of experts (paragraph 54); and
(c) Provision by GOP of adequate allocations, including
required foreign exchange, to meet the total required
annual recurrent expenditures on the reservoirs and
related facilities, including the O&M of capital
infrastructure investments (paragraph 57).



IBRD 1663OR
_                                                               ,e~ 4                 S,_
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                   ./   -. V   < J- -.
AFGHANISTAN                                        O_DEM RzP I5F"'
---'                                                                                I A N    AFGHANISTAN/
.  'SArCOA         . . -,r           7  Oar and    (..... |, P- 'D                          PAKISTAN
- -Jx WARSAiK><OAM                                                                                     I I DI
*0                                  O = - Tcrbsla   1i  \O'f '
* ._    .    Peshowor                                                                       - .MAN    K r  or-
-0                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARABIAroOO
2       ~                                                               Attock             I SLAMABAD                                  .. ---- Thor craOs PbeerprMTyrea t ht
CO)World B-ok stf o!ttOyO
5                           .                     Rawcilpl nd       Ys~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(  .          rthe con,eo,ooco of toe readers of
Pci   i                          't  the report to es/tp   o     artt,ched
/tX    *~~~~~~~~~O Jd9tencros rv at r   ted 00 ntorsemn
_ ,  OKushobgorh :t 2 . . oracceptAnceof tuch bouedarle3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dooatOt.' sI 10 O0tofsh
O   t-trit*ry o aty ere ofrttrot
-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W, =.l ,=_t .ff,!,-
or    c th o g I1-d -oor-ar,
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- i-... -y -°,d .-- !
K ushbgarh                                                                       .... ..
00        t~ALABAGH                                                        \*                lorO  tt,t
'-Pe of CorterrI
H~~~ CA as i'- A    }
os//  RESERVOIROMAINTEEAFIRABACLI
360 '
7                                                               Sn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIOre
PROJECTSI SFEROZEPORE
SiDes       ro IBP    Remodeled      COew  Works
RESRVIRMAITEANE MACILIISPRJC
'or,                            PROJECT SITES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  b   C,;
740                                   2~~~~~~
OCOER18



I



Tho  -ep h-o b-o  p   ap-d by the World B-id   otoft oo-li-ic/y fot the . n
of the readers of the repoit to which it is otta-h-  Ide enoonnot,oy    see the -on-dth
hoonderies Show>n no n hs nc,  di nor -mply on lb, p-rn nf the World honk eAd to
PA K IS TA N                                              -ccePtnce o b Ochho.n-do l °Y
RESERVOIR  MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT                   \°L-SUKAN DAN  /
Mangla Dam
(9Ao  ,   j  <   .........  -                  V     A9   1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/'1 >   (    ' '  r
<                                             =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~EMBANKMENT                                 ~     G
K i~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~ ~                                 1000  2000o  300uAr 2<
i>k  \  OC_  ~                                                         i         SW TCHYARD
-                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TATION
TMSRG[NCYi M\J              I7$NK I
\ UPPER JU ELUM
Ri R!- Hk I                       ~~~~~~~CANAL
'-0                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MANOLA COLONY
PA,n NISTANM / 
1200                                                                                                                IND A Ae>SA
0  100   2000   3000 
FEET                           nt,-MAN>        cC:II/
<:<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anu n-






N                                                                                                                                           I
.  bOo U 5 5 R  70 , j. t C. -ono1
-     Nc                                    4.s, 4  W                                                                                      t PAKISTAN
IRESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
JR MRPOF' A'z,x,          I,L/,L'\                              Chashma  Barrage
I R A N   A FGHANISTAN [Ch-h'a ,  /
S-'     a5  B arrage      $         /
720       /                   2o/
PAKISTAN 
'2        , ,, .//                  7
-iNDIA
U A.' t             t.              EXISTING       I-RIGHT  SPUR NO.2
OAtIDi\°MAN                   - PARHARPUR
AtIA   60°                           FEEDER                                                                                                                                                  3350 000E-
CANAL
-RIGHT SPUR
'>RIGHT
GUIDE BANK
..-LEFT
IR -BRANCH SPUR
\            ////          ~~~~~LEFT SPUR
W/gWAPDA COLONY
-3310 000 E               \                  >        s                >                 3        3        1       0                0        0       0                E       -              3
L I N K C A N A L             <        K U N D I A N                                                                                             Th,t -ap h-t beet prepdbd by rhe
World 8a-k st,f e,.ffe   teo
The danottat,oos used athe  n
8                                                           Z)                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do let-ply, -c he part bf the  t O
c                                   W orld   and fia afhbl- e cey
o                                                                                                                     leddet-t -n the reg.l Ptato  Of 
o                                                                                                                     any teritory er aey endereeee-
o                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
o                                                                                     0                               or fccepteece tf tech haundarr _ 
.._                                                                                      I                                                          Z to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






RER                                 P A K I S T A N
RESERVOIR MAINTENANCE FACILITIES PROJECT
TARBELA DAM
615 000                                                                                                                                                                             615 000
INTAKE CHANNELa          ,9                           -
IRRIGAT ON     ,          X        '
DIVERSION POWER-                                                                        -
GATE OPERATION ,
STRUCTURE>
POWER TUNNELS
IRRIGATION TUNNELS
V§L11             ~~~~AUXILIARY
Ha                                                             J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AXILIAIRY  DAMDAM
605. 00                                                                                                                                                                            605 000
61 UtM HEP U  S .                                 *~~O6E 5                          DA  DA>;RRA WEIR                                          _____O__________JGVG
00   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
d A ~~~~flh..S2INDIAacnFgg)0>3Tfl3x  sa /     Or 1-<                                                                                                                                 3 /ldBn3sd 
A R A Rl A f r p   \   Rw                                                                                                                                                        ,dION
60 5 000                                                                                                                                          60~~~~ 51 00 J
A,17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
j,,03   IN Io,  ,                                                                                                                                           1
6  -.  0                                                                        0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
-    303A 



