Report No. PID7364
Project Name                     Peru-Agricultural Research and (@+) ...
Extension
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Agricultural Extension; Research
Project ID                       PEPE47690
Date PID Prepared                October 7, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         June 20, 1999
Projected Board Date             October 14, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
In the 1990s, following several decades of economic mismanagement, widespread
terrorism, and economic stagnation, the Government of Peru instituted
fundamental reforms that stabilized the economy, restored public order, and
reintegrated the country into the global economy. The Government of Peru is
pursuing a comprehensive strategy directed towards economic growth and
poverty alleviation. Macro-economic reforms initiated in 1990 are central to
this and include: reduction of the public deficit, elimination of price
controls, tariff reduction, elimination or reduction of subsidies, and
privatization of state-owned assets. The Government has also introduced a
broad range of programs for poverty alleviation and improvement of living
conditions. The social integration of Peru is a major Government theme with
emphasis on improved access for the poor in remote areas to education,
health, property rights, and infrastructure services.
Continued commitment to an open economy, private sector-led growth, and sound
economic management have led to substantial growth in agricultural GDP and
some reduction of rural poverty from its peak in 1992. Continued growth in
the agricultural sector is constrained by the following issues [Poverty and
Social Development in Peru: 1994-97 (World Bank, 1999); Peru: Agricultural
Policies for Economic Efficiency (World Bank 1992); Peru: Agricultural
Development Strategy--Draft (World Bank 1998)1:
Rural poverty levels remain very high. In 1997, 64.7 percent of rural
households were in poverty and 24.5 percent were in severe poverty. In
comparison, 40.4 percent of urban households were in poverty and 9.3 percent
were in extreme poverty. This widespread poverty forces government attention
to the issue, but presents a difficult environment for sector growth.
Lack of technological innovation restricts farmers' ability to increase
productivity and improve post-harvest processing and marketing functions.
Current public investment in agricultural research is minimal, reaching only
0.2 W of AgGDP.
Natural resource degradation is a threat to sustainability for some
agricultural production systems. Mismanagement of irrigation water leads to
salinization and soil erosion on the Coast; poor cultivation practices cause
erosion on susceptible soils in the Selva and Sierra; over-grazing is a
problem in the Sierra. Deforestation and poor management of forest resources
is a widespread problem and over-use of pesticides threatens water and food
supplies.
Plant and animal health services are constrained by an outdated legal and
regulatory system, limited capacity, and limited funding. This inhibits
Peru's ability to access international markets, restricts farmer access to



improved planting materials, and exposes the country to introduction of pests
and diseases. An IDB project is addressing these problems, but would benefit
from enhanced in-country research support.
Rural financial services are limited and are expanding only slowly following
closure of the Banco Agrario del Peru, reduction of subsidized rural credit,
and widespread rural terrorism. Only three percent of rural credit is from
formal sources, but 30 percent of rural families have access to credit
(Alvaredo and Ugay 1998). Growth of an effective rural financial system is
necessary to support a vigorous rural economy.
Agricultural market development has improved with the dismantling of
government monopolies and price controls, though the government continues to
intervene in several small programs that adversely impact on market
development. Improved market information systems and a new wholesale market
in Lima remain priorities.
The World Bank Country Study on poverty and social development in Peru found
that substantial recent improvements in social welfare have not been shared
equitably and that rural areas (especially in the highlands) have lagged in
economic growth. The indigenous population has fallen further behind. The
study concludes that greater impact on poverty reduction could be achieved
with available resources if central coordination of investment were based on
sound analysis and linked with decentralized execution of programs at the
local level under public-private-voluntary partnerships. A major task in
achieving reduction in poverty rates will be to increase productivity and
real incomes.
The Study concludes that poverty would be more effectively reduced in the
short term if economic growth is concentrated in agriculture, construction,
and commerce and in rural areas. Simulation of a three percent growth rate
over five years indicates that growth in agriculture and construction would
reduce severe poverty by twice as much (49.2 percent) as would growth in the
services sector (24.3 percent). Rural growth would reduce severe poverty by
twice as much (47.0 percent) as would growth in Lima (22.3 percent).
With macro-economic reforms and a poverty alleviation safety net in place,
the Government is implementing agricultural sector reforms, including the
following:
land titling and registration reforms and an IDB-financed land titling and
registry project,
continuing study and pilot activities directed towards introducing tradable
water rights and greater irrigation cost recovery from water users,
an extensive program (PRONAMACHCS) for reforestation, soil conservation,
forest mapping, and assignment of forest concessions based on sustainable
forest management plans,
an IDB-financed project to strengthen plant and animal health services, and
an alternative development program to introduce economically-viable
alternatives to coca production.
2. Objectives
The Project Development Objective is to establish a private sector-led and
decentralized agricultural technology innovation system. The system would
permit farmers and farmer organizations to collaborate with research
institutions in carrying out adaptive research work and to access technical
advisory services for a range of needs from production to management and
- 2 -



marketing. This would lead to increased farmer adoption of environmentally
sound technology. The Government would provide cofinancing, and policy
guidance for the system. Research institutions would develop strategic plans
to increase their capacity to meet the long term technology needs of the
sector. Information and training institutions would develop plans for rural
information services and extension training programs to complement
decentralized, demand-driven extension services. The Project would: (a)
improve management of public investment in agricultural technology; (b)
involve producers in planning and financing adaptive research and extension
services; and (c) develop plans for increasing capacity for strategic
research and extension support services.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is a major financier for strengthening agricultural research and
extension systems worldwide and has strong commitment to this important
instrument to stimulate economic growth and alleviate rural poverty (Vision
to Action Plan; October, 1997).
The Bank has extensive experience in Latin American in design and
implementation of competitive funding systems for agricultural research and
decentralization of extension systems, i.e., Chile, Colombia, Brazil,
Bolivia, Ecuador, and Venezuela.
The Bank has provided support for development of an agricultural sector
strategy, financed rural development, and supported improvement of Peru's
irrigation sector.
4. Description
The APL projects would finance the following three components:
A Program and Policy Coordination Component would finance a Program
Implementation Unit (PIU) to manage the development of the technology system,
coordinate public sector support for agricultural research and extension, and
facilitate institutional reforms.
An Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF) would cofinance adaptive research and
extension projects on a competitive basis, which would be submitted and
selected on regional basis. Farmers and research and extension institutions
(NGOs, universities, private sector firms, government technical institutions,
etc.) would cofinance and execute projects implemented at the regional and
community level.
The Institutional Strengthening Component would build capacity in selected
programs of strategic significance in the national technology system. It
would finance institutional analyses and planning for selected programs of
applied and strategic research and extension training and information systems
and would finance strategic program development projects on a competitive
basis.
A. Program and Policy Coordination
B. Agricultural Technology Fund
1.) Extension Grants
2.) Adaptive Research Grants
C. Institutional Strengthening
1.) Strategic Planning
2.) Strategic Program
Development Grants
-3-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               4.22
IBRD                     9.6
IDA
Total Project Cost       13.82
6. Implementation
APL Implementation Period: 01/01/2000-12/31/2011
First Phase: 01/01/2000-12/31/2002
Second Phase: 01/01/2003-12/31/2006
Third Phase: 01/01/2007-12/31/2011
Implementing Agencies : Implementation would involve a wide range of
institutions. The Ministry of Agriculture would be the implementing agency.
Co-implementing agencies would include: farmer organizations and various
research and extension services providers, including INIA, universities,
NGOs, and private companies.
Project Coordination: A Program Implementation Unit (PIU), with a Board of
Directors appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture, would have overall
responsibility for coordinating all activities with the Bank and for
implementing the Project. The naming of the Board of Directors would be a
Condition for Negotiations and it's establishment by Ministerial Resolution
would be a condition of effectiveness. The establishment of the PIU and
naming of core staff satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness. An Operational Manual (OM) will be the working document for
the Project describing all administrative procedures, including how to plan,
prepare, select, contract, finance, and supervise all activities to be
financed under the Project. A draft of the OM would be presesented to the
Bank prior to negotiations. A condition of Loan Effectiveness would be the
issuance of a Ministerial Resolution adopting the OM and requiring that the
Project be implemented in accordance with the OM and that the Government send
any proposed changes to the Bank for approval.
Implementation:
Policy and Program Coordination: The PIU would be responsible for the Bank
Project implementation and for coordination of public sector support to the
agricultural technology system. It would be guided by a Board of Directors
composed of stakeholders representing farmers, agribusiness, research and
extension services providers, environmental interests, and government
agencies. The PIU would evolve into a permanent Agricultural Technology Unit
as a condition for the third phase of the Program. It would provide strategic
leadership in the technology subsector and cofinance technology programs in
the sector.
Agricultural Technology Fund: The PIU would establish a fund for competitive
grants to cofinance adaptive research and extension projects. The PIU would
administer the Fund through regionally-based Coordinators, responsible for
promotion and administration of the Project at the regional level. These
coordinators would be supported by regional Agricultural Technology Fora,
comprised of representatives from farmer organizations, agribusiness,
financial institutions, NGOs, and research and extension service providers.
These Fora would provide for a discussion of technology issues for the
region, set priorities and provide guidance for review and approval of
projects financed by the ATF. The PIU would contract services for program
promotion, proposal review, extension agent training and technical
backstopping, and program monitoring and evaluation.
-4 -



The PIU would contract extension advisory services and adaptive research
services for producer organizations in three regions. Project proposals would
be developed in collaboration between farmers groups and service providers
based on farmer needs. Proposals would be submitted to a competitive
selection process based on regional technical evaluation panels managed by
the PIU. The numerous existing producer organizations in Peru (including 5716
registered indigenous community groups and other commodity associations,
irrigation groups, cooperatives, and women's groups) would be eligible to
submit proposals and new groups might also form to develop proposals. A
promotional program and a registry of service providers would help interested
farmer organizations to develop proposals.
Extension services providers would include NGOs, commercial consulting firms,
agribusinesses, universities, and others. There are currently over 400
registered NGOs working in agricultural programs, employing over 5,000
agricultural specialists. The PIU would contract adaptive research projects
with a range of institutions, including government research and technical
agencies, NGOs, universities, private firms, and others.
Institutional Development: During the first phase Project, the PIU would
undertake the analysis and planning of programs to be strengthened in areas
of strategic research and extension support. Possible research programs for
support are: genetic resources conservation and utilization, biotechnology,
post-harvest handling and processing, water resources management, forest
management, land and soil management, agricultural economics, and integrated
pest management. Extension support programs would include agricultural
information services and agricultural training programs. The PIU would
contract consultants to assess the current status of priority technology
programs, identify priorities for future program development, and develop
plans for future program support. A complementary competitive grants program
would finance a limited number of competitively selected proposals for
strategic program development in these areas.
Procurement Arrangements :
The PIU would be responsible for and would follow standard Bank procedures
for all Project procurement. Procurement plans would be included in the
Project Implementation Plan and Annual Project Implementation Plans.
Procedures for procurement would be incorporated into the OM. Procurement
would include: consultant services, goods and equipment, training, minor
civil works, and research and extension project grants. Contracts for
execution of research and extension grants would stipulate that the
executing agencies would follow Bank Guidelines for all procurement under the
contracts. The PIU would carry out spot checks of procurement under grants
and would audit them for compliance with Bank Guidelines. Up to US$ 250,000
would be authorized for retroactive financing of expenditures incurred after
August 31, 1999.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements:
The financial administration of the Project would be the responsibility of
the Program Implementation Unit (PIU), which would contract adequate
qualified staff to provide control and support of the operation and would be
comprised of not less than an administrator, an accountant and a treasury or
disbursement officer. The PIU would establish a Project specific general
ledger in sufficient detail and of a design adequate to record transactions
and report both for internal and external purposes by cost category and
component and sub-component in the manner detailed in Annex 6.
The PIU would open a Special Account in a commercial bank for Project
financing from the Bank loan and would maintain a separate account for
Government of Peru financing. Initial replenishments would be on the basis of
- 5 -



Statements of Expenditures, but within 18 months from Board Approval Date,
the Project would move to Project Management Report-based disbursements.
Before negotiations can occur the status of the financial management of the
Project would be certified by the Bank and an action plan approved to bring
the Project financial systems to a level acceptable under Bank procedures.
External audits in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
would be engaged annually and audit opinions with related statements
presented to the Bank within six months of the fiscal year end. (details in
Annex 6).
Monitoring and Evaluation:
Monitoring and evaluation would be critical to the Project, both to support
the implementation of the Agricultural Technology Fund and to meet the
requirements of the APL for design of the second and third phases of the
Program (see Annex 13). As a condition of Loan Negotiations, the Government
would present a detailed monitoring and evaluation plan, which would be
derived from the logframe (Annex 1).
The PIU would establish a Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU)
comprised of specialists in economics, environment, social sciences, and
information systems. This Unit would manage all Project and technology system
monitoring and evaluation activities. The PIU would establish a program
management information system and contract any additional services necessary
for monitoring activities funded by the Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF)
and the Institutional Strengthening Component. During the first phase
Project, the PIU would evaluate ATF grant projects through case studies with
baseline studies and in-depth surveys and monitoring of a sample of projects.
These would help to understand the process of technology adoption and the
impacts of technological innovation under the ATF projects. Baseline studies
would also measure agricultural productivity and farmers' income and would
provide a reference point for future impact evaluation.
For the Policy and Program Coordination Component and the Institutional
Strengthening Component, the PIU would undertake continuous review and
evaluation of work and analyses completed. In later phases of the APL,
routine monitoring of strategic national programs would be complemented by
external peer reviews. These peer reviews would assess program progress and
provide guidance for future program direction.
Program Performance Reviews would assess overall Program operations. A
special External Review would be conducted after two and a half years of
Project implementation and would use external specialists in research and
extension management, and institutional development to assess Project
management systems and the accomplishments of different Project components
and activities in quantitative and qualitative terms. This Review would
provide the basis for a decision on whether to proceed with the Phase II
project and would provide specific guidance for any phase two design
modifications.
7. Sustainability
The Project carries two risks affecting sustainability. These vary in
severity as follow:
Financial sustainability is a major issue for research and extension systems
throughout the world. The Project will incorporate strategies as described
above to address this risk and to enhance financial sustainability of the
Project.
Institutional sustainability is a moderate risk due the participation of a
- 6 -



large number of institutions and the need for these to relate in new ways,
i.e., public-private partnerships for research and extension.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Bank experience, as documented by OED evaluations, indicates that the
following elements are important for success of agricultural research and
extension projects:
Strong government commitment is an essential condition for development of
sustainable and efficient research and extension programs.
Both public and private sector services should be considered in extension
system design and both traditional mass-media and new communications
technologies may be appropriate in extension programs.
Accommodating needs of women, indigenous and vulnerable groups can be
accomplished by: involving these groups in setting research agendas and
evaluating extension services; sensitizing extension workers to roles of
these groups in the farming community; and developing methodologies to
effectively reach these farmers.
Needs-based extension staff training should focus on training extension
workers to encourage farmer organization participation in extension in
addition to providing technical information.
Monitoring and evaluation systems for extension programs need to assess
program impacts resulting from usable technologies adopted by farmers.
Extension systems must be adaptable to respond to rapidly changing economic,
trade, and sectoral conditions.
Investment in country-wide extension systems may be inappropriate when there
is lack of resources or technology to support such systems.
Considering technology generation, acquisition, and adoption as elements of a
single system promotes synergies between scientists, educators, extension
agents, farmers, and industry stakeholders.
Rationalizing existing resources and limiting expansion of facilities is
important to developing financially sustainable research systems. Policy and
regulatory regimes should be favorable to private sector research and
technology spill-ins.
Research planning and priority setting are important, but need to be carried
out in ways that ensure local ownership and good quality of such exercises.
Developing socioeconomic capabilities and monitoring and evaluation systems
deserve greater attention in Bank research projects.
Attention to excellence in research quality needs to be enhanced through:
needs-based training; competitively awarding research grants based on
explicit economic, social and technical criteria; external review of research
programs; involvement of universities and a range of other research
providers; and linkages with international, regional and national research
centers of excellence.
Effective institutional linkages with research system clients requires farmer
involvement in determining research agendas and consideration of gender
effects in research planning and execution.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     No
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The Program would have positive overall impacts on the
environment and natural resources. An environmental analysis (Malpartida and
Loli 1999) found that Peru's agricultural resource base is under considerable
pressure from population growth and poor management of natural resources. The
APL Program would address some of the critical problems identified in the
-7 -



environmental assessment by focusing research on natural resource management,
integrated pest management, and genetic resources conservation. Targeted
training and technical assistance would sensitize Project staff, extension
agents, and farmers to environmental issues and would encourage activities
that address environmental problems. Training and information program
development would introduce activities and capacities for programs enhancing
environmental awareness among extension agents and agricultural producers.
Representation from an environmental agency would be included on the Board or
Directors and an environmental specialist would be employed by the PIU to
review all Project activities for negative environmental impacts. The Project
Operational Manual would include a list of environmental criteria for
screening Project activities, including use of any proscribed pesticide,
increase in deforestation, pollution of groundwater, negative impact on
endangered species, or increase in pesticide in food.
All proposals for competitive grants projects would include an assessment of
environmental impacts, including a negative checklist for proposal
eligibility. Projects would be screened for impacts on: water use, water
contamination, air contamination, erosion, deforestation, land clearing,
overgrazing, use of pesticides, wildlife, biodiversity, parks and protected
areas, or cultural heritage sites. No project would be financed that involves
use of pesticides that: (a) are not registered with SENASA per Supreme Decree
No. 15-95-AG and Ministerial Resolution No. 0268-96-AG or (b) are categorized
as "Persistent Organic Pollutants" by the UN.
Project proposals would be classified as to potential environmental impacts
and, as appropriate, would require environmental analyses or inclusion of
appropriate mitigation measures. Technical review panels would assess
environmental impacts of proposals and the PIU environmental specialist would
review all proposals prior to funding. The Environmental Specialist would
coordinate monitoring of project compliance with environmental mitigation
measures and reporting on environmental impacts of all projects.
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202)458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Task Manager
Matthew A. Mcmahon
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 8, 1999.
- 8 -



