Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19841 - PE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON THE FIRST PHASE OF A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9.60 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 1999)
Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol (S/.)
S/.1.0= US$ 0.29
US$ 1.00 = S/.3.41
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AgGDP   Agricultural Gross Domestic Product            M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
AKIS      Agricultural Knowledge and Information       MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
Systems Thematic Group
APL       Adaptable Program Loan (also Adaptable       NCB          National Competitive Bidding
Program Lending)
ATF       Agricultural Technology Fund                 NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
ESW       Economic and Sector Work                     NPV          Net Present Value
FEAS    Proyecto de Fomento de la Transerencia de      OM           Operational Manual
Tecnologia a las Comunidades Campesinas de
la Sierra (Development Project for Technology
Transfer to Peasant Communities in the Sierra)
FONCO   Fondo Nacional de Compensacion y Desarrollo    PHRD         Japanese Trust Fund
DES       Social (National Social Compensation and
Development Fund)
FRR       Financial Rate of Return                     PIIEA        Proyecto de Investigacion, tnformacion, y Extension
Agropecuaria (Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                       PIU          Program Implementation Unit
GPN       General Procurement Note                     PMR          Project Management Report
ICB       International Competitive Bidding            PRONA-    Programa Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas Hidrograficas y de
MACHCS   Conservacion de Suelos (National Program for River Basin
Management and Soil Conservation)
IDB       InterAmerican Development Bank               QCBS         Quality and Cost Based Selection
IFAC      International Federation of Accountants      R&D          Research and Development
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural          R&E          Research and Extension
Development
IFPRI    Intemational Food Policy Research Institute   SA           Special Account
INIA     Instituto Nacional de Investigacion Agraria   SENASA       Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Agraria (National Agricultural
(National Agricultural Research Institute)                Health Service)
INRENA  Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales       SIL          Specific Investment Loan
(National Institute for Natural Resources)
IRR       Internal rate of Return                      SOE          Statement of Expenditure
LACI    Loan Administration Change Initiative          TOR          Terms of Reference
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:      David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:       John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Matthew A. Mcmahon



PERU
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing:                                              3
2. Project development objective                                                     4
3. Key performance indicators                                                        4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
3. Benefits and target population                                                   10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      16
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                         16
2. Financial                                                                        17
3. Technical                                                                        18
4. Institutional                                                                    19
5. Social                                                                           20
6. Environmental assessment                                                         21
7. Participatory approach                                                           22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   22



2. Critical risks                                                                   22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   23
G. Main conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                         23
2. Other                                                                            24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       45
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                             56
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   60
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                     61
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          67
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy from the Government of Peru                          69
Annex 12: Project Implementation Plan (Preliminary Draft)                              84
Annex 13: Project Monitoring Plan                                                      88
Annex 14: Map of Proposed Regions for ATF Program Implementation (draft)               93
Annex 15: Summary of Draft Indigenous Peoples Plan                                     94
MAP(S)
IBRD 30426



PERU
Agricultural Research and Extension
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSES
Date: October 25, 1999                              Team Leader: Matthew A. Mcmahon
Country Manager/Director: Isabel M. Guerrero        Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P047690                                 Sector(s): AE - Agricultural Extension, AR - Research
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: No
Prograin Finaneing Data
.  .  - ::   ,                           ~~~~~~~~Estimated-::      -    ;
-APL            Indicative Financing P@an          Implementaion Peilod            Borrower
-_____  -______ _  -_ _ -   :   --.Bank  Fn
IBRD             Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %       US$ m       US$ m        Date         Date
APL 1         9.60    69.5     4.22        13.82     01/01/2000   12/31/2002 Government of Peru
Loan/
Credit
APL_ 2       50.17    56.0    39.44        89.61     01/01/2003   12/31/2006 Govemment of Peru
Loan/
Credit__                                                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 3        56.10    39.8    84.98       141.08     01/01/2007   12/31/2011 GoverumentofPeru
Loan/
Credit
APL 4
Loan/
Credit
Total       115.87  1128.64   1244.51    ________________________
Project Financing Data
N Loan          Bi Credit        B Grant        EB Guarantee      B~ Other (Specify)
For APL I Project
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 9.60
Proposed Terms: LI To be defined   3 Multicurrency 3 Single currency
3 Standard Variable 3 Fixed          M LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             5
Years to maturity:                 17
Commitment fee:                   0.75
Front end fee on Bank loan         1.00%
iFinancing Plan: B] To be def-med
Source                               Local         Foreign          Total
Government                                                        3.39            0.83          4.22
IBRD                                                              5.75           3.85           9.60
IDA



Total:                                                          9.14           4.68          13.82
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF PERU
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency:
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Agriculture
Address: Av. Salaverry, Cuadra 6, Jesus Maria, Lima, Peru
Contact Person: Rafael Ravettino
Tel: (511) 424-9239                Fax: (511) 431-0109               Email: rravetti@mag.minag.gob.pe
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual      0.8          2.2          4.0         2.6
Cumulative     0.8           3.0         7.0         9.6
Project implementation period: January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2002
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2003
COCSAPLFon F-O tObeS, 19
-2 -



A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The Program purpose is to increase the productivity and competitiveness of the agricultural sector through
the adoption of environmentally sound technologies generated and disseminated by a private sector-led and
decentralized technology innovation system. A nation-wide technology system would be established over
three phases of a 12 year program. Improved technologies would address constraints to crop and livestock
production, post-harvest handling and marketing, and natural resource management. Technological
innovation would originate from an institutionally pluralistic research, extension and information system
that is demand driven and cofinanced by users.
The first three-year Project would:
*   Establish a decentralized, competitive research and extension system in three regions. This phase of the
Program, through an Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF) would cofmance 123 extension and 51
adaptive research projects developed in response to farmer demands. These projects would deliver
technology services to 20,000 farmers and would strengthen 123 farmer organizations.
* Develop plans for building institutional capacity and finance competitive projects in strategic
agricultural research programs. The Project would finance the development of strategies and plans for
extension agent training program, agricultural information services programs and priority national
research programs. It would finance the development of institutional strategic plans including that of
the Instituto Nacional de Investigacion Agraria (INIA). It would also finance 16 applied and strategic
research projects, 3 extension agent training projects and 3 information services projects
The second phase Project would last for four years and would:
*   Expand the decentralized agricultural research and extension system throughout the country. The ATF
would expand operations throughout the country and would cofinance 494 extension and 238 adaptive
research projects through competitive grants. Approximately 80,000 farmers would participate in, and
benefit from improved technology.
*   Increase support for strategic technology programs. The Project would cofinance 20 projects in priority
areas identified during the Phase I Project. The Project would also continue assistance to research and
extension institutions to plan and implement institutional reforms.
The third phase Project would last for five years and would consolidate the decentralized, pluralistic and
cofinanced agricultural technology system. This phase would strengthen the regional coordination of
extension and adaptive research programs. Strategic national research programs would generate
information and technologies to feed extension and adaptive research projects, and a technology unit
responsible for policy and coordination of public financing would be established in a modernized Ministry
of Agriculture. This unit would support a pluralistic agricultural technology system with a mix of public
and private funding. The competitive grants program would cofinance 1040 extension and adaptive
research projects, directly benefiting 115,000 farmers.
Over the life of the Program, approximately 215,000 direct program participants would increase farm real
incomes by an average of 30 percent and approximately 430,000 indirect beneficiaries would increase
incomes by 15 percent.
-3 -



2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project Development Objective is to establish a private sector-led and decentralized agricultural
technology innovation system. The system would permit farmers and farmer organizations to collaborate
with research institutions in carrying out adaptive research work and to access technical advisory services
for a range of needs from production to management and marketing. This would lead to increased farmer
adoption of environmentally sound technology. The Government would provide cofinancing, and policy
guidance for the system. Research institutions would develop strategic plans to increase their capacity to
meet the long term technology needs of the sector. Information and training institutions would develop
plans for rural information services and extension training programs to complement decentralized,
demand-driven extension services. The Project would: (a) improve management of public investment in
agricultural technology; (b) involve producers in planning and financing adaptive research and extension
services; and (c) develop plans for increasing capacity for strategic research and extension support
services.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Project goal level impact indicators would include: increased rural household incomes, increased value of
total agricultural production, reduction in cost of production, reduced rate of land and forest degradation,
and improved use efficiency of irrigation water.
Project outcome indicators would include: three regional programs of extension and adaptive research
established with farmer participation, eight strategic national research programs and extension support
programs planned, institutional strategies developed for INIA and two other institutions, 87 firms supplying
technology services to 123 producer organizations, 16 institutions implementing strategic technology
programs, private sector financing at least 15 percent of extension and adaptive research program costs,
20,000 farmers adopting production and resource conservation technologies, farm real incomes of
producers adopting new technologies increased by at least 30 percent, and 30,000 hectares of land under
improved management of natural resources.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16796PE                        Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/22/97
The Project would strongly back the CAS objective of supporting Government of Peru efforts to achieve a
sustained, continuous reduction of poverty. By improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the
agricultural technology system, the Project would increase agricultural productivity and farmer incomes,
and reduce natural resource degradation. Higher rural incomes and increased agricultural production would
support expansion of agricultural marketing and processing industries.
- 4 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In the 1990s, following several decades of economic mismanagement, widespread terrorism, and economic
stagnation, the Government of Peru instituted fundamental reforms that stabilized the economy, restored
public order, and reintegrated the country into the global economy. The Government of Peru is pursuing a
comprehensive strategy directed towards economic growth and poverty alleviation. Macro-economic
reforms initiated in 1990 are central to this and include: reduction of the public deficit, elimination of price
controls, tariff reduction, elimination or reduction of subsidies, and privatization of state-owned assets. The
Government has also introduced a broad range of programs for poverty alleviation and improvement of
living conditions. The social integration of Peru is a major Government theme with emphasis on improved
access for the poor in remote areas to education, health, property rights, and infrastructure services.
Continued commitment to an open economy, private sector-led growth, and sound economic management
have led to substantial growth in agricultural GDP and some reduction of rural poverty from its peak in
1992. Continued growth in the agricultural sector is constrained by the following issues [Poverty and
Social Development in Peru: 1994-9 7 (World Bank, 1999); Peru: Agricultural Policies for Economic
Efficiency (World Bank 1992); Peru: Agricultural Development Strategy--Draft (World Bank 1998)]:
*   Rural poverty levels remain very high. In 1997, 64.7 percent of rural households were in poverty and
24.5 percent were in severe poverty. In comparison, 40.4 percent of urban households were in poverty
and 9.3 percent were in extreme poverty. This widespread poverty forces government attention to the
issue, but presents a difficult environment for sector growth.
o   Lack of technological innovation restricts farmers' ability to increase productivity and improve
post-harvest processing and marketing functions. Current public investment in agricultural research is
minimal, reaching only 0.2 % of AgGDP.
-   Natural resource degradation is a threat to sustainability for some agricultural production systems.
Mismanagement of irrigation water leads to salinization and soil erosion on the Coast; poor cultivation
practices cause erosion on susceptible soils in the Selva and Sierra; over-grazing is a problem in the
Sierra. Deforestation and poor management of forest resources is a widespread problem and over-use
of pesticides threatens water and food supplies.
*   Plant and animal health services are constrained by an outdated legal and regulatory system, limited
capacity, and limited funding. This inhibits Peru's ability to access international markets, restricts
farmer access to improved planting materials, and exposes the country to introduction of pests and
diseases. An IDB project is addressing these problems, but would benefit from enhanced in-country
research support.
*   Rural financial services are limited and are expanding only slowly following closure of the Banco
Agrario del Peru, reduction of subsidized rural credit, and widespread rural terrorism. Only three
percent of rural credit is from formal sources, but 30 percent of rural families have access to credit
(Alvaredo and Ugay 1998). Growth of an effective rural financial system is necessary to support a
vigorous rural economy.
* Agricultural market development has improved with the dismantling of govermment monopolies and
price controls, though the government continues to intervene in several small programs that adversely
impact on market development. Improved market information systems and a new wholesale market in
Lima remain priorities.
The World Bank Country Study on poverty and social development in Peru found that substantial recent
improvements in social welfare have not been shared equitably and that rural areas (especially in the
highlands) have lagged in economic growth. The indigenous population has fallen further behind. The study
concludes that greater impact on poverty reduction could be achieved with available resources if central
coordination of investment were based on sound analysis and linked with decentralized execution of
- 5-



programs at the local level under public-private-voluntary partnerships. A major task in achieving
reduction in poverty rates will be to increase productivity and real incomes.
The Study concludes that poverty would be more effectively reduced in the short term if economic growth
is concentrated in agriculture, construction, and commerce and in rural areas. Simulation of a three percent
growth rate over five years indicates that growth in agriculture and construction would reduce severe
poverty by twice as much (49.2 percent) as would growth in the services sector (24.3 percent). Rural
growth would reduce severe poverty by twice as much (47.0 percent) as would growth in Lima (22.3
percent).
With macro-economic reforms and a poverty alleviation safety net in place, the Government is
implementing agricultural sector reforms, including the following:
* land titling and registration reforms and an IDB-financed land titling and registry project,
* continuing study and pilot activities directed towards introducing tradable water rights and greater
irrigation cost recovery from water users,
*   an extensive program (PRONAMACHCS) for reforestation, soil conservation, forest mapping, and
assignment of forest concessions based on sustainable forest management plans,
*   an IDB-financed project to strengthen plant and animal health services, and
* an alternative development program to introduce economically-viable alternatives to coca production.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project would address the need for improved technology to support an agricultural transformation.
Such agricultural technology is critically needed to facilitate the adjustment of the sector to an open
economy, to exploit areas of comparative advantage, and to increase competitiveness of the overall sector.
The Project would finance the generation, adaptation, and dissemination of technologies for the small farm
sector in crop and livestock production, natural resources management, socio-economic research,
agricultural product processing and post-harvest handling, and strategic research.
To achieve these goals, the Project would build on existing capacities and introduce demand-driven
mechanisms to ensure the relevance of programs to Peruvian producers and agribusiness. Such demand
driven mechanisms would result in a pluralistic system for financing and execution of research and
extension, thereby increasing private sector participation and contributing to the sustainability of the
system.
The Project faces strategic choices as described below. In the first three cases, the choice is not "either-or",
but rather a balance relating largely to the extent of the public versus private goods nature of the activities
to be financed. Choices include:
*   Public vs. private sector: The Government could choose not to invest in an agricultural technology
system, but rather to leave financing of agricultural technology innovation completely to the private
sector. Clearly, in the Peruvian case, this is not a desirable option, since most products of research and
extension are non-appropriable goods and many benefits flow to society as a whole. Certain activities
can and should be funded by the private sector (including producers) and a recurrent question will be
the relative role of the private sector in technology policy, financing, and execution.
*   Strategic Research vs. Adaptive Research and Extension: The Government could emphasize only
extension and adaptive research and not develop a more extensive research system. This would draw on
existing technologies to provide quick impact on productivity and incomes. The Project is financing
these activities but would also develop institutional capacity for strategic research important for
- 6 -



long-term sector growth.
* Commercial vs. Small farm agriculture: Setting priorities for both research and extension involves
difficult decisions on geographic targeting (Coast, Sierra, Selva), commodity focus (traditional exports,
non-traditional exports, basic food crops), and target technology users (agribusiness, small farmers,
larger commercial farmers). Balancing these priorities is complicated in that they imply some choice
between providing services for small subsistence farmers or larger commercial farmers. The Project
would support a technology system that responds to a wide range of commodities but focuses public
financing on small farmers.
* Adaptable Program Lending (APL) over a Specific Investment Loan (SIL): The selection of an
APL was an additional strategic choice made for three reasons. First, institutional development,
agricultural technology generation, and technology adoption are long term processes that would benefit
from stable, long term support. This is especially so in Peru, where major system reform and
redirection is necessary. Secondly, development of a pluralistic research and extension system does not
lend itself to blueprint financing. Institutions require time to develop strategies, plans, and alliances and
project financing must adapt to institutional needs as they evolve. And, finally, decentralized provision
of demand-driven services represents a fundamental change in Peruvian agricultural technology
programs and requires a period of learning and refining program design and implementation strategies
as these programs are developed.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The first Program phase would last three years and would establish a decentralized, competitive research
and extension system in three regions with strong private sector participation and develop plans for
capacity development in strategic national research programs. Mechanisms at both national and regional
levels would provide users of agricultural technology, principally small and medium-scale farmers, a role in
governance and priority setting for the technology system.
Triggers for the initiation of the second phase would be based on the results of an external review after
30 months from the date of effectiveness. The review would be carried out by a team of four independent
specialists. The team would include expertise in agricultural economics, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, and project administration. The external review would produce a report of findings and
recommendations, which would serve as a basis for decisions on continuing with a second phase project.
Specific triggers for continuing with the second phase project would be the following:
* Determination by the external review team that the competitive extension and adaptive research grants
program is operating effectively in three regions, and has at least 75 percent of ongoing projects with a
satisfactory rating.
* Evidence from the project monitoring data and confirmation by the external review team that private
sector and other stakeholders are cofinancing at least 15 percent of adaptive research and extension
project costs.
*   Determination by the external review team that the project has a comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation system that produces timely information necessary for program management and evaluation.
* Presentation of priorities for a program of competitive grants to support program development in
strategic research, information and extension services support programs.
* Approval of a strategic plan for INIA, detailing priorities, activities, and financing.
- 7 -



The second phase of the program would last four years and would expand the decentralized agricultural
research and extension system. This phase would expand coverage of the competitive grants program for
adaptive research and extension. Farmers and other stakeholders would finance an increasing share of the
program costs and participating farmers would see significant increases in sustainable productivity and
incomes from adoption of new technology. The Project would continue support for strategic planning and
institutional reform in participating institutions and would expand the competitive grants program to
finance approximately 20 projects to develop strategic research, information and extension support
programs.
Triggers for the initiation of the third phase would be based on findings of an external review. Specific
triggers would include the following:
* Positive evaluation of implementation of competitive extension and adaptive research grants program in
all regions and in at least 75 percent of the projects.
* Private sector and other stakeholders are cofinancing at least 25 percent of adaptive research and
extension project costs.
* Positive external peer reviews of strategic research programs in at least six strategic areas.
* Positive evaluation of extension support programs.
3 Establishment of an Agricultural Technology Unit within a modernized Ministry of Agriculture, that
would be responsible for policy, regulation, public financing and international cooperation for
agricultural technology programs.
*  Public sector financing for agricultural research increased 100 percent over 1995.
The third phase of the program would consolidate systems for policy, regulation, operation and financing of
a pluralistic agricultural technology system leading to increased farmer adoption of economically and
environmentally sound technology. The system would be based on institutional pluralism both in
implementation and financing. Farmers and other stakeholders would have an increased participation in the
governance of the systems. Strategic national research programs would be generating information and
technologies to support adaptive research and extension programs. Agricultural training institutions and
information systems would effectively support the sector technology programs. Competitive allocation of
resources would be central to financing strategies. In this way Peru's agricultural research and extension
system would evolve with a mix of public and private funding. A permanent Unit within a modernized
Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for policy, regulation, public financing and international
cooperation for agricultural technology programs.
The Project would continue to serve farmers and farmer organizations throughout the country and would
fund an additional 1040 adaptive research and extension projects. An additional 20 grants would strengthen
strategic research and extension support programs. Participating farmers would have demonstrable
increases in production and income and significant areas would benefit from improved natural resource
management systems utilizing new technologies.
C: Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The APL projects would finance the following three components:
A Program and Policy Coordination Component would finance a Program Implementation Unit (PIU) to
- 8-



manage the development of the technology system, coordinate public sector support for agricultural
research and extension, and facilitate institutional reforms.
An Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF) would cofinance adaptive research and extension projects on a
competitive basis, which would be submitted and selected on regional basis. Farmers and research and
extension institutions (NGOs, universities, private sector firms, government technical institutions, etc.)
would cofinance and execute projects implemented at the regional and community level.
The Institutional Strengthening Component would build capacity in selected programs of strategic
significance in the national technology system. It would finance institutional analyses and planning for
selected programs of applied and strategic research and extension training and information systems and
would finance strategic program development projects on a competitive basis.
Indicative   .ai*                 % of-
Component                   Sector        costs     % of   financing   Bank-
_____________  (JU$$M)   Total    (US$M    financing
A. Program and Policy Coordination    AR - Research     3.30      23.9       2.08      21.7
B. Agricultural Technology Fund    Agricultural        4.46       32.3       3.79      39.5
1.) Extension Grants            Extension
2.) Adaptive Research Grants    AR - Research       2.77       20.0       1.81      18.9
C. Institutional Strengthening     Agricultural         0.71       5.1       0.58       6.0
1.) Strategic Planning          Extension
2.) Strategic Program           AR - Research        2.48       17.9      1.24       12.9
Development Grants
Total Project Costs                   13.72       99.3      9.50       99.0
Front-end fee                    0.10        0.7      0.10        1.0
Total Financing Required                    13.82      100.0      9.60      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project would reinforce commitment to and implementation of policy and institutional reforms already
underway. Key areas of reform to be supported by the Project are:
*   Sustainable financing which requires increased Government funding for the Agricultural Technology
System, with a substantial increase above the current estimated level of 0.2 percent of AgGDP. The
strategic vision for the agricultural technology system also envisions greater private sector funding.
*   Expanded private sector participation in financing and implementing technology programs. Peru has
an active private sector that promotes research and technology transfer at various points in the food
chain, but overall private sector investment in agricultural R&D is still small. The Project would
encourage private sector investment by: cofinancing technology programs with the private sector;
strengthening producer organizations and agribusiness associations; and promoting greater awareness
of technology options. This would stimulate an innovation culture in agribusiness firms, many of which
now lack managerial capacity, an effective demand for technology and information, and linkages with
public research and technology transfer organizations.
*   Liberalizing regulations on import and development of germplasm and new technologies. A
review of Peru's regulatory framework found no regulations that are major impediments to private
R&D, though some distortions result from current seed laws that favor marketing of imported seed and
varieties. Peru has enacted intellectual property rights legislation (including plant varietal rights), but in
practice these have not been implemented. A biosafety law to allow importation and testing of
-9-



transgenic crops is before parliament but has yet to be enacted. The Project would finance studies and
analyses of legal, policy, and regulatory frameworks for private sector investment in technological
innovation. These analyses would seek to relieve investment constraints relating to intellectual property
rights, technology importation (to the extent compatible with prudent phytosanitary controls), and crop
varietal release and ensure establishment of adequate regimes for biosafety.
* Clarification of Government policy on provision of services. While there are crops and regions
where public sector involvement in seed production is justified, public sector seed production in some
crops may undermine incentives for private investment. Likewise, MOA projects may produce
distortions in markets for technical advisory services by providing information free to producers, even
in areas where commercial firms provide similar services at full cost. This Project would introduce a
mechanism for the competitive contracting of services which would require cofinancing by users.
Underpinning the policy of competitive funding is a Government commitment to promote
institutionally-pluralistic research and extension systems. The Project would finance a Strategic Plan
for INIA to define its future activities, both scientific and commercial, and its future financing plan.
*   The establishment of an Agricultural Technology Department in a modernized Ministry of
Agriculture would be supported. This body would be responsible for policy, regulation and
coordination of public financing of a pluralistic agricultural technology system.
3. Benefits and target population:
The expected benefits from the Project would include:
*   the adoption of new production and post-harvest technologies that increase agricultural productivity,
production, and farmer incomes, directly benefiting approximately 20,000 farmers and increasing farm
real incomes by approximately 30 percent;
*   production and natural resources management technologies that improve and conserve approximately
30,000 hectares.
*   development of technologies that open new market opportunities, increase exports, improve food and
other product quality, and provide alternatives for economic development;
*   development of a private sector led market for basic and strategic agricultural services that is
pluralistic and demand-driven.
*   strengthening of over 123 producer organizations that organize to gain access to technological
innovations.
Of the country's 1.7 million farm units, focus would be on the 1.3 million units producing basic food and
export commodities. Of these, 56 percent farm less than three hectares and another 30 percent farm
between three and ten hectares. In addition to the 34 percent of the economically-active population
employed directly in agriculture, other direct beneficiaries would be the participants in the rural non-farm
work force that benefit from increased rural economic activity and the workers employed by agribusinesses.
The Project would seek to build a sustainable and responsive agricultural technology system that would
facilitate technological innovation and increase productivity, alleviate poverty and conserve natural
resources. There is at times a tradeoff in the relative emphasis to be placed on productivity growth versus
poverty alleviation. There is a consensus that Peru's new technology system must place major emphasis on
broad-based productivity growth-----productivity growth that affects a large number of producers. Such
productivity growth has been demonstrated to have substantial poverty alleviation effects---through effects
on incomes of large numbers of producers, growth linkage effects on the rural economy through expanded
markets for goods and services, direct and indirect employment effects from increased production, and
lower prices for basic foods for poor consumers. Thus, while the Project is not primarily a project to
- 10 -



alleviate rural poverty, the Project would emphasize equity by incorporating criteria such as:
*   Allocating resources across regions, based on the number of potential beneficiaries and the level of
poverty in each region;
*   Cofinancing arrangements that require larger farmers to pay a higher share of project costs;
*   Evaluating projects as to their impact on poverty; and
*  Monitoring beneficiary profiles as regards poverty, gender and ethnicity.
The conservation of natural resources is a key element in the long term sustainability of the agricultural
sector and is therefore central to the strategy for this program. Various mechanisms are employed in the
screening and approval of projects to be financed under the program to ensure positive environmental
impacts. Strategic plans will also be prepared for the further development of areas such as biodiversity, soil
and water conservation, integrated pest management, etc.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
APL Implementation Period: 01/01/2000-12/31/2011
First Phase: 01/01/2000-12/31/2002
Second Phase: 01/01/2003-12/31/2006
Third Phase: 01/01/2007-12/31/2011
Implementing Agencies: Implementation would involve a wide range of institutions. The Ministry of
Agriculture would be the implementing agency. Co-implementing agencies would include: farmer
organizations and various research and extension services providers, including INIA, universities, NGOs,
and private companies.
Project Coordination: A Program Implementation Unit (PIU), with a Board of Directors appointed by the
Ministry of Agriculture, would have overall responsibility for coordinating all activities with the Bank and
for implementing the Project. The establishment by Ministerial Resolution of a Board of Directors,
satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness. The establishment of the PIU and naming of core
staff satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness. An Operational Manual (OM) will be the
working document for the Project describing all administrative procedures, including how to plan, prepare,
select, contract, finance, and supervise all activities to be financed under the Project. A draft of the OM
was presesented to the Bank prior to negotiations. A condition of Loan Effectiveness would be the issuance
of a Ministerial Resolution adopting the OM and requiring that the Project be implemented in accordance
with the OM and that the Government send any proposed changes to the Bank for approval.
Implementation
Policy and Program Coordination: The PIU would be responsible for the Bank Project implementation
and for coordination of public sector support to the agricultural technology system. It would be guided by a
Board of Directors composed of stakeholders who would look out for the interests of farmers, indigenous
and campesinos, agribusiness, research and extension services providers, environmental community and
government agencies. The PIU would evolve into a permanent Agricultural Technology Unit as a condition
for the third phase of the Program. It would provide strategic leadership in the technology subsector and
cofinance technology programs in the sector.
Agricultural Technology Fund: The PIU would establish a fund for competitive grants to cofinance
adaptive research and extension projects. The PIU would administer the Fund through regionally-based
Coordinators, responsible for promotion and administration of the Project at the regional level. These
coordinators would be supported by regional Agricultural Technology Fora, comprised of participants from
- 11 -



farrner organizations, indigenous groups, agribusiness, financial institutions, NGOs, and research and
extension service providers. These Fora would provide for a discussion of technology issues for the region,
set priorities and provide guidance for review and approval of projects financed by the ATF. The PIU
would contract services for program promotion, proposal review, extension agent training and technical
backstopping, and program monitoring and evaluation.
The PIU would contract extension advisory services and adaptive research services for producer
organizations in three regions. Project proposals would be developed in collaboration between farmers
groups and service providers based on farmer needs. Proposals would be submitted to a competitive
selection process based on regional technical evaluation panels managed by the PIU. The numerous existing
producer organizations in Peru (including 5716 registered indigenous community groups and other
commodity associations, irrigation groups, cooperatives, and women's groups) would be eligible to submit
proposals and new groups might also form to develop proposals. A promotional program and a registry of
service providers would help interested farmer organizations to develop proposals.
Extension services providers would include NGOs, commercial consulting firms, agribusinesses,
universities, and others. There are currently over 400 registered NGOs working in agricultural programs,
employing over 5,000 agricultural specialists. The PIU would contract adaptive research projects with a
range of institutions, including government research and technical agencies, NGOs, universities, private
firms, and others.
Institutional Development: During the first phase Project, the PIU would undertake the analysis and
planning of programs to be strengthened in areas of strategic research and extension support. Possible
research programs for support are: genetic resources conservation and utilization, biotechnology,
post-harvest handling and processing, water resources management, forest management, land and soil
management, agricultural economics, and integrated pest management. Extension support programs would
include agricultural information services and agricultural training programs. The PIU would contract
consultants to assess the current status of priority technology programs, identify priorities for future
program development, and develop plans for future program support. A complementary competitive grants
program would finance a limited number of competitively selected proposals for strategic program
development in these areas.
Procurement Arrangements:
The PIU would be responsible for and would follow standard Bank procedures for all Project procurement.
Procurement plans would be included in the Project Implementation Plan and Annual Project
Implementation Plans. Procedures for procurement would be incorporated into the OM. Procurement would
include: consultant services, goods and equipment, training, minor civil works, and research and extension
project grants. Contracts for execution of research and extension grants would stipulate that the executing
agencies would follow Bank Guidelines for all procurement under the contracts. The PIU would carry out
spot checks of procurement under grants and would audit them for compliance with Bank Guidelines. Up to
US$ 250,000 would be authorized for retroactive financing of expenditures incurred after August 31, 1999.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements:
The financial administration of the Project would be the responsibility of the Program Implementation Unit
(PIU), which would contract adequate qualified staff to provide control and support of the operation and
would be comprised of not less than an administrator, an accountant and a treasury or disbursement officer.
The PIU would establish a Project specific general ledger in sufficient detail and of a design adequate to
record transactions and report both for internal and external purposes by cost category and component and
sub-component in the manner detailed in Annex 6.
The PIU would open a Special Account in a commercial bank for Project financing from the Bank loan and
- 12 -



would maintain a separate account for Government of Peru financing. Initial replenishments would be on
the basis of Statements of Expenditures, but within 18 months from Board Approval Date, it is expected
that the Project would move to Project Management Report-based disbursements. Before Board
presentation can occur the status of the financial management of the Project would be certified by the Bank
and an action plan approved to bring the Project financial systems to a level acceptable under Bank
procedures.
External audits in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank would be engaged annually
and audit opinions with related statements presented to the Bank within six months of the fiscal year end.
(details in Annex 6).
Monitoring and Evaluation:
Monitoring and evaluation would be critical to the Project, both to support the implementation of the
Agricultural Technology Fund and to meet the requirements of the APL for design of the second and third
phases of the Program (see Annex 13). As a condition of Loan Negotiations, the Government presented a
detailed monitoring and evaluation plan, which would be derived from the logframe (Annex 1).
The PIU would establish a Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) comprised of specialists in
economics, environment, social sciences, and information systems. This Unit would manage all Project and
technology system monitoring and evaluation activities. The PIU would establish a program management
information system and contract any additional services necessary for monitoring activities funded by the
Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF) and the Institutional Strengthening Component. During the first
phase Project, the PIU would evaluate ATF grant projects through case studies with baseline studies and
in-depth surveys and monitoring of a sample of projects. These would help to understand the process of
technology adoption and the impacts of technological innovation under the ATF projects. Baseline studies
would also measure agricultural productivity and farmers' income and would provide a reference point for
future impact evaluation.
For the Policy and Program Coordination Component and the Institutional Strengthening Component, the
PIU would undertake continuous review and evaluation of work and analyses completed. In later phases of
the APL, routine monitoring of strategic national programs would be complemented by external peer
reviews. These peer reviews would assess program progress and provide guidance for future program
direction.
Program Performance Reviews would assess overall Program operations. A special External Review would
be conducted after two and a half years of Project implementation and would use external specialists in
research and extension management, and institutional development to assess Project management systems
and the accomplishments of different Project components and activities in quantitative and qualitative
terms. This Review would provide the basis for a decision on whether to proceed with the Phase II project
and would provide specific guidance for any phase two design modifications.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following tactical alternatives were considered and rejected:
Exclusive reliance on importation of technology was rejected as experience from other countries (i.e.
Brazil and Chile) has shown that local capacity is essential to facilitate such imports and develop
technologies to fit local conditions.
Exclusive financing of research by the private sector was rejected as the products of research activities
- 13 -



suitable to Peru are largely non-appropriable and benefit society as a whole.
Exclusive support for a single research-extension institution (i.e., rebuilding INIA) was rejected as
agricultural sector research needs cannot be addressed adequately by one institution and such an exclusive
approach has led to highly bureaucratic institutions which are not responsive to farmer needs.
Establishment of a government implemented extension service would be costly and such systems tend to
be bureaucratic and unresponsive to producers' needs. The producer-cofinanced approach was judged most
appropriate as it allows producers to express their demands and share costs, thus enhancing the financial
sustainability and relevance of services.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
LatestSup,ervision
Setr IsePrj                                               (PSR) R~atings~
____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____   __ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ (Ba k-fna n edW   projects    onjL)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
to alleviate poverty of rural Sierra  Sierra Natural Resources (US$     S             S
people                              51 m)
to finance irrigation rehabilitation  Irrigation Rehab.(US$ 85 m)      U              S
to reduce time and cost of getting  Rural Roads-- (US$ 90 m)            S              S
products to market
to develop an agricultural sector   ESW: Agricultural
development strategy                Development Strategy
to finance demand-driven local      FONCODES--(US$150m)                 S             HS
infrastructure and services
Other development agencies
to assist the rural poor to obtain  Technology Transfer to Rural
sustainable employment              Communities--FEAS (IFAD)
to increase value of natural resources   Management of Natural
for commercial agricultural production  Resources in the Southern
in the southern sierra              Sierra (IFAD)
to improve plant and animal health  National for Agricultural
Health (SENASA)(IDB)
to provide access for the poor to   Increased Incomes of the Poor
income-generating activities        (USAID)
to promote licit agricultural production  Alternative Development
and marketing in coca areas         (USAID)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Bank experience, as documented by OED evaluations, indicates that the following elements are important
for success of agricultural research and extension projects:
*   Strong government commitment is an essential condition for development of sustainable and efficient
research and extension programs.
- 14 -



*   Both public and private sector services should be considered in extension system design and both
traditional mass-media and new communications technologies may be appropriate in extension
programs.
*   Accommodating needs of women, indigenous and vulnerable groups can be accomplished by:
involving these groups in setting research agendas and evaluating extension services; sensitizing
extension workers to roles of these groups in the farming community; and developing methodologies to
effectively reach these farmers.
*   Needs-based extension staff training should focus on training extension workers to encourage farmer
organization participation in extension in addition to providing technical information.
*   Monitoring and evaluation systems for extension programs need to assess program impacts
resulting from usable technologies adopted by farmers.
*   Extension systems must be adaptable to respond to rapidly changing economic, trade, and sectoral
conditions.
* Investment in country-wide extension systems may be inappropriate when there is lack of resources
or technology to support such systems.
*   Considering technology generation, acquisition, and adoption as elements of a single system
promotes synergies between scientists, educators, extension agents, farmers, and industry stakeholders.
*   Rationalizing existing resources and limiting expansion of facilities is important to developing
financially sustainable research systems. Policy and regulatory regimes should be favorable to private
sector research and technology spill-ins.
*   Research planning and priority setting are important, but need to be carried out in ways that ensure
local ownership and good quality of such exercises.
*   Developing socioeconomic capabilities and monitoring and evaluation systems deserve greater
attention in Bank research projects.
*   Attention to excellence in research quality needs to be enhanced through: needs-based training;
competitively awarding research grants based on explicit economic, social and technical criteria;
external review of research programs; involvement of universities and a range of other research
providers; and linkages with international, regional and national research centers of excellence.
*   Effective institutional linkages with research system clients requires farmer involvement in
determining research agendas and consideration of gender effects in research planning and execution.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Goverrnent of Peru has followed a phased approach to agricultural sector development by first
initiating macro-economic and structural reforms to stabilize the economy and provide a base for future
growth. With those reforms in place, the Government now indicates that timing is right to proceed with
investment in an agricultural technology system project. In addition to the Government request for this
project loan, the following indicate Peruvian commitment and ownership in the Project:
*   The Ministry of Agriculture has developed a subsector strategy entitled "Strategy for Technological
Innovation and the Competitiveness of Peruvian Agriculture", which identifies this program as the
principal vehicle for its implementation.
*   The Ministry of Finance has indicated in meetings with Bank staff that it gives priority to development
of agricultural research and extension systems that involve private sector participation and that support
technological innovation by the private sector.
*   There has been widespread discussion in both public and private sector institutions of the need to
develop a demand-driven, institutionally pluralistic research and extension system.
*   In various workshops during project preparation there has developed a general consensus among the
major stakeholders on the principles on which the Project is designed.
- 15 -



* The project preparation team contracted by the Ministry of Agriculture and funded under PHRD Grant
prepared the Project with inputs from consultation with a broad range of stakeholders.
*   During the preappraisal and appraisal missions the Government indicated its support for the proposed
APL (see Aide Memoires dated 3/12/99 and 7/8/99).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*   The Bank is a major financier for strengthening agricultural research and extension systems
worldwide and has strong commitment to this important instrument to stimulate economic growth and
alleviate rural poverty (Vision to Action Plan; October, 1997).
* The Bank has extensive experience in Latin American in design and implementation of competitive
funding systems for agricultural research and decentralization of extension systems, i.e., Chile,
Colombia, Brazil, Bolivia, Ecuador, and Venezuela.
* The Bank has provided support for development of an agricultural sector strategy, financed rural
development, and supported improvement of Peru's irrigation sector.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$224 million; ERR= 39 %
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Economic analyses of agricultural research and extension projects are methodologically difficult because of
the strong emphasis on institutional strengthening. Detailed economic analysis at the project level is often
not warranted for project preparation. (See AKIS Team Good Practice Note: "Economic Analysis of
Agricultural Research and Extension: Problems, Methods, and Guidelines for Good Practice" draft, dated
3/22/99.). The APL phase I Project is heavily focused on institution building. Project economic analysis
includes: review of returns to past investments in agricultural research and extension, assessment of
potential returns to new investments, and evaluation of economic return on investment in ATF extension
and adaptive research projects. The Project would finance capacity development for continuing economic
evaluation of agricultural technology programs.
Returns to Past Investments: There is ample evidence of satisfactory economic returns to investment in
agricultural technology systems with average returns reported of 73 percent (Alston and others 1999).
There is no reason to believe that economic returns to technology investments in Peru would be
substantially below the level of historical returns and substantial evidence supports the potential for good
returns to investments in agricultural technology in Peru.
Potential Returns to New Investments: Ganoza and others (1990) analyzed potential returns to
investments in research and extension in Peru and showed high rates of return, especially if investments are
maintained. Recent analysis has confirmed the favorable estimates of rate of return (Alarcon, 1999). Fano
and others (1999) have evaluated expected impacts (from 1992 to 2003) for 16 technologies developed by
INIA and estimated that these would produce net benefits to investment in research and extension combined
of US$ 29 million per year, with IRRs varying from 11 percent (quinoa varietal development) to 39 percent
(cotton technology). Project preparation field case studies carried out in three regions identified
technologies in each region with high priority for diffusion and high potential return on investment.
Returns to Investment in ATF Projects: An economic analysis was completed for extension and adaptive
research project investments financed under the ATF (Annex 4). The analysis for a 20 year period included
all Project costs, including investments in the PIU and institutional strengthening as overhead costs for the
- 16 -



ATF technology program. Benefits were estimated as the incremental income benefits to producers due to
earlier adoption of improved management practices and technologies. The analysis yields a NPV of US $
224 million (at a 12 percent discount rate) and an IRR of 39 percent. Sensitivity analyses indicate that
reducing program benefits by half would reduce the IRR to 21 percent; introducing an additional two year
lag time in technology adoption and benefits would give a 25 percent IRR; and eliminating any benefits
from spread effect (indirect beneficiaries) would reduce the IRR to 28 percent. The conservative estimates
and robustness of rate of return estimates indicate that the program would be a sound investment.
Economic Analysis During Implementation: During implementation the PIU would employ an economist
in the M&E unit to: monitor project expenditures in relation to national priorities, incorporate economic
analysis into resource allocation decisions, undertake ex ante analysis of a sample of ATF projects, arrange
for ex post evaluation of a sample of ATF projects, and monitor program impacts. Program impact
monitoring would include baseline studies and subsequent monitoring of measures of agricultural
productivity and agricultural technology services markets. The economist would also coordinate
institutional strengthening of agricultural economics research programs to ensure capacity in research and
extension organizations to undertake economic impact assessment.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ 224 million; FRR = 39 %
There are no significant distortions in prices used to calculate Program costs and benefits. Financial NPV
and FRR for the Program would be essentially equivalent to the economic NPV and IRR. Financial
soundness of the Program rests principally on the ability of farmers and agribusiness to finance the
development, adoption, and use of new technologies and on the ability of participating technology
institutions to sustain operations.
Financial viability of new technologies is supported by Project preparation case studies that identified
technologies available in each region that would provide farmers high returns, ranging from 20 to 50
percent. A number of well-documented experiences demonstrate successful adoption and increased
profitability of technological innovation in asparagus, coffee, beans, grapes, tuna fruit, and milk (See for
example, Annex 2 to the World Bank 1998 draft Peru: Agricultural Development Strategy). Financial rate
of return for a group of producers participating in the ATF program is estimated at 78 percent (see Annex
4).
Financial sustainability of technology institutions is a major issue in many countries. Peru has a poor
record of sustaining public support to agricultural technology programs and has paid the price for this in its
low agricultural productivity and the atrophy of public sector technology institutions. For a future
transformation of the rural sector, it is essential that public investment in agricultural technology be
increased. The APL Program is a major first step in this direction and, over the 12 year Program period,
public financing for agricultural research (estimated at US$ 9.6 million in 1998) would increase to US$
19.2 million. The APL Program would address the problem of financial sustainability by: diversifying
funding sources; requiring user co-financing of services; and increasing technology program efficiencies
through competitive, pluralistic and demand-driven programs, decentralized program management, and
reforms in research institutions.
Fiscal Impact:
The three-phase APL Program would require Government expenditures to peak at approximately US$ 8
million per year for research and US $ 8 million per year for extension. The research funding would be part
of the estimated US$ 9.6 million increase required for a productive agricultural research system. The total
increase in annual Government expenditures would be approximately US$ 17.6 million, representing 6.0
percent of the 1998 government budget for the sector or 0.28 percent of the total government budget. The
- 17 -



increase in public funding for agricultural research is large in percentage terms because of its low base, but
is modest in terms of the overall MOA budget. Total public sector funding for agricultural research would
be approximately 0.44 percent of AgGDP, still low in comparison with investment levels of other countries.
Increased expenditures for extension would be off-set by savings from completion of the FEAS project and
there is considerable scope for the Govermment to reallocate funding from less productive investments or
from extension activities less well targeted to provision of public goods and services.
Program impacts would offset the increased fiscal outlays. Productivity increases resulting from Program
investments would substantially reduce requirements for government expenditures for rural poverty
alleviation and environmental programs. Private sector co-financing minimizes the need to increase
government budget outlays and the Project plans to explore the potential for institutionalizing producer
financing through product levies on selected products. Preliminary analysis suggests that use of levies
would be financially feasible for most commodities (Alarcon, 1999).
The Project would produce positive impacts on government tax revenues. Incomes of agricultural
producers are projected to increase by US$ 334 million annually. Using this as a conservative estimate of
increased economic activity (e.g., ignoring value of increased input use) and assuming an average five
percent tax on transactions due to the increased income results in an estimate of US$ 16.7 million of
increased govermnent tax revenue due to the Project. This would nearly offset the Government expenditures
for the Program.
3. Technical:
The APL program design is technically sound in taking into consideration global experience and lessons
learned from Bank and other programs for technology system development. (See various AKIS thematic
Group documents.) These lessons are embedded in the four principles underlying the new technology
system---pluralism, competitive financing, user participation, and user financing. The Program
incorporates other recognized good practices, such as: separation of functions of program financing and
execution; core support for long term strategic programs as a complement to competitive funding for
short-term projects; and linking research and extension with sector training. An international workshop
allowed program preparation to draw on the wealth of experience with participatory research and extension
programs and technology system reforms in Latin America. (See papers from the international workshop
3/1 1-13/99.)
Appropriate technologies are available to increase productivity and small farm incomes. Field case studies
have documented the availability of cotton, rice, potato, and cocoa technologies that can increase farmer
productivity substantially, but have yet to be diffused (Del Rio and others 1999). Technologies are often
not diffused because of poorly functioning extension programs that are not oriented to market production
and farmer needs. Case studies also identified opportunities for applied and strategic research with
potentially high payoffs. The relatively low yields for most Peruvian crops also suggests that there is
potential for significant increases in productivity. There are other important opportunities to improve
productivity through introduction of new crops and livestock products, improvements in product quality,
and value added activities in product processing.
Strategic national research programs would build local capacity in specific technical areas. These would
link with world centers of excellence to appropriate the latest scientific knowledge for application to
resolving problems in Peru. The approach recognizes that Peru needs to take advantage of state of the art
technologies, but can not develop capacity in all fields and must rely on technology impor.s through a local
capacity to selectively access international programs.
Advances in communications and information technology provide opportunities to increase efficiency and
effectiveness of agricultural information systems. The Project information services support program would
- 18 -



utilize these technologies, as appropriate, but, recognizing that in many rural areas, more traditional
information systems would likely be more cost-effective, the information services program would work
with a range of information and communications technologies.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Program implementation arrangements are relatively complex, as is required in building an
institutionally-pluralistic technology system with substantial private sector participation. Executing
agencies would include: farmers' organizations, universities, INIA, other government technical institutions,
private sector firms, foundations, NGOs, and others. Although the number of participating institutions is
large, the program would build on existing institutional capacity and programs and would require only
incremental changes in level of activity of each. This contrasts with many past research and extension
projects, which supported major, unsustainable increases in program activity. Institutional analyses
(Manrique 1999 and Risi 1999) have documented the many institutions currently active in the sector, their
problems, and their ability to participate as planned in the Program.
The Program would introduce major changes in the orientation of technology programs and the way these
relate to one another. Decentralized, client-oriented research and producer-contracted extension services
require a new mentality in technology institutions. The ATF would foster this new mentality, introducing it
gradually as institutions and scientists become accustomed to competitive funding. This same change in
mentality towards a more results-oriented, client-responsive system has been observed in other technology
programs in Colombia, Chile, and Venezuela. Strategic national program development would reinforce this
change in thinking by encouraging partnerships and collaborative programs and by introducing more
effective program coordination.
Governance structures at the central level (the Board of Directors) and regional level (Agricultural
Technology Fora) would greatly expand the level of user participation in technology program planning and
governance.
b. Project management:
The PIU, along with its regional Coordinators, the Board of Directors, and Regional Agricultural
Technology Fora, would bear major responsibility for Program management. Past political and economic
instability affected government ability to implement technology programs, but the Ministry of Agriculture
has improved its implementation capacity and has an acceptable record in implementing programs, such as:
the Sierra Natural Resources Project, SENASA, and FEAS. The program would provide adequate training
and technical assistance to the PIU to enable it and its regional offices to carry out their responsibilities.
The phased nature of the APL Program provides an important initial period for institutional capacity
building and testing and scaling up of the program.
- 19-



5. Social:
The major social issues for the program are the feasibility of implementing the grants program through
producer organizations and the impact of the technological innovation on the poor and disadvantaged
groups. Field Case Studies (various reports) and the social assessment (Agreda 1999) found that producer
organizations ranging from commodity-based groups, to community and irrigation associations, exist in all
ecoregions though these are less prevalent in the selva. Some groups are quite strong and already
participate actively in purchasing and supplying technology and information services, while many are very
fragile. The diversity and large number of existing producer organizations would allow the program to be
selective and provide support directly to the most capable organizations while investing in training and
promotional activities to strengthen the capacity of others. Experience with the FEAS project and in other
countries provides evidence that the Project approach, with its targeted support for producer organizations,
is viable.
Case studies confirmed that commercial orientation is essential for effective program implementation.
Farmers need assistance with credit, product marketing, and input supply facilitation and can best utilize
technical assistance if provided in concert with these market activities. ATF program activities would
emphasize market-oriented approaches and would reinforce a trend in NGO programs moving towards
more market-oriented approaches to small farm development. The studies found that regional offices should
develop an image independent of past government agricultural programs in order to minimize expectations
of welfare-type programs.
A Peru World Bank Poverty Study (1999) found that rural poverty is pervasive with poverty rates 60
percent higher in rural than in urban areas and extreme poverty 163 percent higher. Increased farm incomes
would reduce poverty levels and increased productivity and availability of non-traded basic food crops
would result in lower food prices and higher real incomes, thus benefiting poor consumers. A study of
indigenous peoples' development (World Bank 1998) found poverty to be concentrated in indigenous
groups and suggested that NGOs and community organizations need to be involved in program
implementation to be effective in serving these communities.
The technology system's emphasis on broad-based productivity growth would affect large numbers of
producers and have substantial poverty alleviation effects through: effects on incomes of producers, growth
linkage effects on the rural economy through expanding markets for goods and services, direct and indirect
employment effects from increased production, especially of labor-intensive high valued crops, and through
lower prices for basic foods for poor consumers. The Program would also ensure wide distribution of
benefits by: allocating resources across regions based on the number of potential beneficiaries and the level
of poverty in each region; establishing cofinancing arrangements requiring larger farmers to pay a higher
share of project costs; evaluating projects as to their impact on poverty; and monitoring beneficiaries
profiles as regards poverty, gender and ethnicity. Fano (1999) found that many available technologies are
appropriate to small farm systems and can have substantial impacts on farm productivity and incomes.
Case studies and the social analysis found that small producers divide into two groups: market-oriented
(growing) small farmers and subsistence-oriented (stagnant) producers. Both groups are threatened by
change in the competitive economy, but the market-oriented small producers are the entrepreneurs most
likely to adopt innovations to enable them to compete. Market-oriented small and medium-scale producers
are the primary target group for the Project. The poorest producers in difficult agro-ecological regions have
limited links to markets and limited opportunities to increase productivity and incomes through improved
technology and information. The Project would assist these subsistence-oriented producers as a secondary
target group benefiting from introduction of new crops and market opportunities and through Project
support to NGOs and other projects, which directly target these groups.
The Project Operational Manual will include a monitorable plan to ensure participation of women and
- 20 -



indigenous peoples in the program. Special efforts in program promotion and implementation would target
these groups. The PIU would monitor Project impacts on women and indigenous communities and the
relevant indicators are included in the M&E plan. If these groups lag in accessing Program services, the
PIU would reallocate training and promotional resources to better target these groups. The regional
Agricultural Technology Fora would also ensure proposal preparation by indigenous groups and assist
such groups to prepare proposals that provide services in the local language.The Board of Directors will
have one member designated to monitor implementation of the project's Indigenous People's Action Plan as
included in the OM.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category L A El C
Z B a FI
The Program would have positive overall impacts on the environment and natural resources. An
environmental analysis (Malpartida and Loli 1999) found that Peru's agricultural resource base is under
considerable pressure from population growth and poor management of natural resources. The APL
Program would address some of the critical problems identified in the environmental assessment by
focusing research on natural resource management, integrated pest management, and genetic resources
conservation. Targeted training and technical assistance would sensitize Project staff, extension agents, and
farmers to environmental issues and would encourage activities that address environmental problems.
Training and information program development would introduce activities and capacities for programs
enhancing environmental awareness among extension agents and agricultural producers.
Representation from an environmental agency would be included on the Board or Directors and an
environmental specialist would be employed by the PIU to review all Project activities for negative
environmental impacts. The Project Operational Manual would include a list of environmental criteria for
screening Project activities, including use of any proscribed pesticide, increase in deforestation, pollution of
groundwater, negative impact on endangered species, or increase in pesticide in food.
All proposals for competitive grants projects would include an assessment of environmental impacts,
including a negative checklist for proposal eligibility. Projects would be screened for impacts on: water use,
water contamination, air contamination, erosion, deforestation, land clearing, overgrazing, use of
pesticides, wildlife, biodiversity, parks and protected areas, or cultural heritage sites. No project would be
financed that involves use of pesticides that: (a) are not registered with SENASA per Supreme Decree No.
15-95-AG and Ministerial Resolution No. 0268-96-AG or (b) are categorized as "Persistent Organic
Pollutants" by the UN.
Project proposals would be classified as to potential environmental impacts and, as appropriate, would
require environmental analyses or inclusion of appropriate mitigation measures. Technical review panels
would assess environmental impacts of proposals and the PIU environmental specialist would review all
proposals prior to funding. The Environmental Specialist would coordinate monitoring of project
compliance with environmental mitigation measures and reporting on environmental impacts of all projects.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
- 21 -



a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
During Project preparation, primary beneficiaries---small and medium-scale farmers---were consulted
through numerous field visits, six regional planning workshops, and field case studies that used a rapid
rural appraisal methodology. Beneficiary input confirmed the general Project approach and led to
introduction of strategies of decentralization, regional Agricultural Technology Networks, need for
information services, and identification of requirements for producer organization participation.
During implementation, beneficiaries would be included in Project governance and oversight structures (the
Board of Directors and regional Agricultural Technology Fora), would participate in priority setting and
review of extension and adaptive research projects, and would be consulted through surveys for monitoring
and evaluation of project activities. Project support would strengthen producer organizations and their
ability to represent producer interests.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Research and extension institutions (government technical agencies, NGOs, and universities) and other
stakeholders (agribusinesses, larger farmers, and exporters) were consulted during Project preparation
through field visits and regional workshops. Participation was enthusiastic and many good ideas resulted
from discussions with stakeholders, who confirmed the need for the Project and the importance of an
institutionally-pluralistic approach. These stakeholders represent critical constituencies for the Project and
would be key partners in implementation, with representation in Project governance on the Board of
Directors and regional Fora.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project carries two risks affecting sustainability. These vary in severity as follow:
*   Financial sustainability is a major issue for research and extension systems throughout the world. The
Project will incorporate strategies as described above to address this risk and to enhance financial
sustainability of the Project.
*   Institutional sustainability is a moderate risk due the participation of a large number of institutions and
the need for these to relate in new ways, i.e., public-private partnerships for research and extension.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Rural financial markets do not allow        M          Rural financial services should improve
farmers to obtain financing to invest in               with reduced govermment interference in
technological innovation.                              financial markets and with expanded
private sector activity.
World commodity prices fall below           N          Improved market information systems
levels that allow Peruvian producers to               will help producers plan production, but
expand production.                                     can not assure profits.
Producers are not able to access            N          Recent reforms and an IDB project
international markets and comply with                 should address this risk.
phytosanitary regulations for exports.
-22 -



Peru's natural resources base for        N         This Project and others (i.e., irrigation)
agricultural production deteriorates               contribute to improved natural resource
from over-use and mismanagement.                   management.
Technology institutions are not able to  N         The Project will assist participating
develop sources of sustainable                     institutions with strategy development,
financing.                                         priority setting and financial planning.
From Components to Outputs
Government does not remain committed     M         The Government "Strategy for
to development of an institutionally               Technological Innovation and
pluralistic agricultural technology                Productivity in Peruvian Agriculture"
system.                                            and the "Letter of Development" (Annex
11) record Government's substantial
commitment to the Program.
Research programs are not successful     N         Research is an inherently unpredictable
in developing improved technologies.               activity, but the demand driven process
will lead to better focused programs.
Private sector does not invest in        N         Economic liberalization and an open
agricultural research and technological            economy will require private sector
innovation.                                        investment to improve competitiveness.
Farmer organizations do not have the     N         The PIU would contract services and
capacity to contract and manage                    the Project would strengthen the
extension advisory services.                       capacity of producer organizations.
Technology institutions do not adjust to  M        Project resources will provide incentives
and function effectively in the new                for institutions to evolve as more
institutional policy environment.                  competitive and market-oriented.
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A Board of Directors shall have been established, its members appointed, and their honoraria determined,
by a resolution of the Minister of Agriculture to the satisfaction of the Bank.
The PIU shall have been established by a resolution of the Ministry of Agriculture, and shall be staffed and
operating in a form satisfactory to the Bank.
The Operational Manual shall have been approved by the Bank and adopted by a resolution of the Minister
of Agriculture.
An indigenous peoples action plan shall have been prepared to the satisfaction of the Bank and incorporated
in the Operational Manual.
- 23 -



Standard bidding documents to be used for national competidve bidding proicdures and an annual
prcuremrent plan for the first year of the Project shall have been prepared to the satisfaction of the Bank
A financial management s5ftn has been atablished to ihe satisfaction of the Bank
2. Other (classify according to covenant lps usd in the Legal Agreements.]
Obligation to carry out the project in accordance with the Operational Manual, including the Indigenous
Peoples Action Plan
H. Readiness for Implementation
O  I. a) The ngieerng desige documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the star
of projct implementation.
1- b) Not applicable.
Ol 2 The procurement documents for the first year's actvities are complet and redy for the start of
projert implementation.
0 3. The Projcmt Implementation Plan has bem appraisad and found to be realistic and of stisfactory
quality.
1E 4 The following items are kcking and are discussed under loan cornitions (Section 0):
Ministerial resolution establishing the Board of Directors in a form satisfictory to the Bank
Ministerial resolution etablishing the PIU in a form satisfactory to the Bank
Final draf of the Operational Manual including the Indigenous Peoples Action Plan
Standard bidding documents for NCB and first year procuremnent plan
Financial Management system satisfactory to the Bank
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
C3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Cl 2. Thc following cxeeptions to Bank policies are rcomnmended for approval. The projct complics with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Ma  ewA. Mcmah Ran                                                    sabl ,we        .
Team Leader                        Sector ManageWlDirector           Con naorDirer
24



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustained, reduction of    *Increased rural household   Country Studies; Reports of   eContinued investment in
poverty achieved through    incomes.                  the Ministry of Finance and    improved social services and
increased competitiveness of  *lncreased value of     Ministry of Agriculture; UN    poverty alleviation programs.
the agricultural sector, with    agricultural production.  Agency Reports        *Non-agricultural sector
reduced rate of natural    *Reduced cost of production                            growth increases
resource degradation.      *Improved irrigation water                             employment opportunities.
use efficiency.                                     *Continued improvement in
*Reduced rate of land and                              internal security.
forest degradation.
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:         (from Purpose to Goal)
Increased productivity and    *Agricultural sector    PIU Routine Reports from the *Technological innovation
competitiveness of the      productivity increased    Program Management          expands rural employment
agricultural sector through the  (measure to be determined).  Information System (PMIS)    opportunities in agriculture,
adoption of environmentally  *Agricultural technology  ATF Program Baseline and    agricultural processing, and
sound technologies generated   services market activity              .            rural non-farm sectors.
and disseminated by a       increased (measure to be    Impact Case Studies
modernized technology       determined).              Special Study of Agricultural
innovation system.         *215,000 direct program    Sector Productivity
Program phasing will include:  participants and 430,000  Special Study of Agricultural
indirect participants adopted Technology Services Market
*Phase I: Technology System   new farm production,
Establishment.             marketing, management, and Special Surveys and Reports
*Phase II: Technology System   post-harvest technologies.
Expansion.                *Farm real incomes of direct
*Phase III: Technology      program participants
System Consolidation.      increased by 30 % and of
indirect participants by 15
*Management of natural
resources (soil, water,
forests) improved on 318,000
hectares of land.
- 25 -



Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
A decentralized, private   *Extension and adaptive    PIU Routine Reports from the *Infrastructure development
sector-led agricultural     research programs         Program Management          allows efficient marketing of
technology innovation system   established in 3 regions.    Information System (PMIS)    agricultural production.
established to increase farmer *87 firms are providing  Program Performance      *Macro-economic policy
adoption of profitable,    technology services to 123    .                        environment continues to
environmentally-sound       producer organizations.                               provide stable economic
technology.                *16 institutions are       Strategic Program Peer      conditions.
implementing strategic   Reviews                    *Research programs are
research and extension   ATF Program Baseline and    successfuil in developing
program development      Impact Case Studies          improved production,
projects.                                            processing, and natural
*Private sector has cofinanced Special Surveys and Reports   resource management
15 % of ATF project costs.                           technologies.
*20,000 farmers participated
in extension and adaptive
research programs and
adopted new technologies.
*Real farm income of
producers directly
participating in ATF projects
has increased by 30 %.
*30,000 hectares of land
under improved management
of natural resources.
*Priorities and strategies
developed for eight strategic
research and extension
programs.
*INIA and two other
institutions have developed
strategic plans.
- 26 -



Kby,Pedfonnance
fi".rthty of Ojects-   -          In4lcatrsn                     &IRVAlu;ton    Ciitifcat -stions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
L Policy and Program      I. Policy and Program
Coordination               Coordination
Establishment of a system for *PIU established with                              *Research and extension
efficient management of     effective Board of Directors  PIU M&E System Routine  institutions are able to
public investment in a     *3 regional offices established
pluralistic, demand-driven  with 2 AT Fora each.                                  sustainable financing.
agricultural research and  *ATF program operating
extension system.           efficiently.
033 program monitoring and
evaluation studies
completed.
II. Agricultural Technology  II. Agricultural Technology                         *World commodity prices
Fund                       Fund                                                   remain at levels that allow
A. Establishment of a system   * 123 extension projects                           Peruvian producers to
for diffusion of knowledge and  underway with 75 %                               *Pand producton.
solution of production,     satisfactory rating or better                        *Producers are able to comply
marketing, and post-harvest    and with 30 % participation                        with product phytosan tary
handling constraints.       rate by women and 30 % by                             international markets.
indigenous communities.                             *Pernaticults.
.170 extensionists contracted                          Peru's agricultural
by farmer organizations,                             production natural resources
byth farm    ofragenatswoens,                        base (land, water) does not
with 30 % of agents women,                           deteriorate from over-use
*228 innovations introduced                            demisaagement.
tofrmes                                             and mismanagement.
to farmers.
B. Establishment of a system   .51 adaptive research projects                    *Rural financial markets
for producers to participate in  underway with 80 %                               allow farmers to obtain
generation of efficient and  satisfactory rating.                                 financing to invest in
environmentally sound      *An average increase of 30 %                           technological innovation.
technology for crop and    in productivity demonstrated
livestock production and    by adaptive research trials.
marketing.
III. Institutional         III. Institutional
Strengthening              Strengthening
A. Increased capacity to   95 studies completed on
conduct applied and strategic  strategic research program
research for long term      areas and institutional
agricultural productivity   strategies with wide
increase.                   stakeholder participation.
. 16 strategic research
program development
projects underway with 90 %
satisfactory rating.
- 27 -



B. Increased capacity to   |2 studies completed on
provide training and         extension services support
information services in      programs and institutions
support of extension         with wide stakeholder
programs.                    participation.
*6 strategic extension services
support program
development projects
underway with 80 %
satisfactory rating.
- 28 -



Key Perffome
HJlerarchy of Objectives         ftidlcators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critial Assumtns
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
I. Policy and Program     I. Policy and Program      PIU M&E System Routine    *Government remains
Coordination              Coordination (US$ 3.29m)  Quarterly Reports            committed to development of
i.Works                                               an institutionally pluralistic
2.Goods                                               agricultural technology
3.Consultant and training                             system.
services
4.0perating costs
II. Agricultural Technology  II. Agricultural Technology                        *Farmer organizations are
Fund                      Fund (US$ 7.23m)                                       interested and able to
*  Extension Grants     i.Extension grants.                                    contract for extension
*  Adaptive Research    2.Adaptive research grants.                            advisory services and applied
Grants                                                                      research.
III. Institutional        III. Institutional                                    *Research programs are
Strengthening             Strengthening (US$ 3.19m)                              successful in developing
*  Strategic National   i.Consultant and training                              appropriate, new technology.
Research Programs      services.                                           *Private sector remains
* Extension Services    2.Strategic program                                    interested in investing in
Support Programs       development grants.                                  agricultural research and
technologies.
- 29 -



Annex 2: Project Description
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
Program and Project Description Summary
The Project financed by an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), would be the first of a three phase investment
program for the development of an agricultural technology innovation system (research, extension and
information). The focus of the Program would be on increasing the adoption of improved technology by the
country's 1.3 million small and medium-scale producers. The program would be based on principles of:
*   institutional pluralism to draw on the competitive advantage and capacities of multiple institutions to
provide research and extension services;
*   competitive allocation of funding for research and extension services with separation of the functions of
financing and execution of services;
* cofinancing costs of research and extension with the providers and users of technology services; and
*   demand-driven provision of services with participation of users in the identification, financing, and
implementation of such services.
The Program purpose would be to increase the productivity and competitiveness of the agricultural sector
through the adoption of environmentally sound technologies generated and disseminated by a modernized
technology innovation system. The Project Development Objective for this first phase is to establish a
private sector-led, decentralized technology innovation system to increase the adoption of
environmentally-sound technologies. The Project would have three components: Program and Policy
Coordination; an Agricultural Technology Fund; and Institutional Strengthening. Project components are
described below along with a summary of activities anticipated in the second and third phase Projects.
Project outcomes would include: the establishment of three regional programs of extension and adaptive
research with strong private sector participation, private sector cofinancing of 15 percent of Project costs,
development of strategies for eight research and extension support programs, INIA, and two other
institutions, 87 institutions providing technology services for 123 producer organizations, 20,000 farmers
adopting production and resource conservation technologies with farm real incomes of technology adopters
increased by at least 30 percent, and 30,000 hectares of land under improved management of natural
resources.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.30 million
A. Program and Policy Coordination Component
The APL Projects would finance a Program Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Agriculture,
which would be the implementing agency for the Program and for reform of the agricultural technology
system. The PIU would coordinate the Project and Bank loan; establish the decentralized extension and
adaptive research system, manage the competitive fund to finance this system; and support institutional
reforms in public sector agricultural technology programs. The PIU would prepare a three year work
program for Project implementation and supplement this vvith detailed Annual Project Implementation
Plans. The Annual Project Implementation Plans would be linked to work plans of PIU Units and individual
staff members. Procedures for carrying out these functions would be established in an Operational Manual
(OM).
Current directions for the technology system are outlined in the "Strategy for Technological Innovation and
the Competitiveness of Peruvian Agriculture". The PIU would allocate funding for technology programs in
line with the national strategy and priorities, considering also expressed needs and priorities of agricultural
producers. Technology policy and coordination of public sector financing is a permanent government
- 30 -



function, requiring the PIU to evolve as a permanent unit affiliated with the Ministry of Agriculture.
The Project would finance: minor civil works for PIU office renovations; vehicles, goods, and equipment
for PIU and regional office operations; staff training; salaries and operating costs for the PIU and regional
offices; and program monitoring and evaluation. Bank financing for operational costs for the PIU would be
phased out over the life of the Program.
1. Institutional Structure of the PIU: The PIU would have a core staff of approximately 13 professionals
and eight support staff. It would be organized with: a Director; an Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF)
Unit with two professionals to coordinate regional research and extension programs; an Institutional
Strengthening (IS) Unit with two professionals to coordinate institutional and program capacity
development; a Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) with four professionals; an
Administrative Unit with four professionals; and three regional coordinating offices each with two
professionals.
Project Organizational Structure
Ministry of Agriculture
Board of Directors
(Nine Members)
Planning, Monitoring &                 PIU Director                 Administrative Unit
Evaluation Unit                                                  (Four Professionals)
(Four Professionals)
Agricultural Technology        In titutional Strengthening
Fund Unit                           Unit
(Two Professionals)              (Two Professionals)
W_~~~~~~~~1
Regional Offices
(Two professionals
per region)
The PIU would receive policy guidance from a Board of Directors established by a Ministerial Decree. The
Board of Directors would be composed of key stakeholders in agricultural technology programs. Members
would serve in their personal capacities and should have strong commercial experience and orientation.
Membership would include the Minister of Agriculture or his representative and stakeholder representing
the interest of; agricultural producers, indigenous peoples, export producers and agribusiness, agricultural
extension service providers, agricultural finance institutions, the education and scientific community,
environmental agencies, and the agricultural research community. Administrative functions of the Board of
Directors would include: overseeing Program implementation; selecting a PIU Director; approving the
Project Operational Manual, Annual Work Plans, and budgets; ensuring that the PIU complies with
- 31 -



obligations in Work Plans; ensuring that national priorities are adhered to within the program; ensuring the
implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Action Plan, and evaluating performance of the PIU. Policy
functions would include advising the Minister of Agriculture and senior Ministry officials on technology
policies and proposing changes in national technology programs and policies.
The Board's substantive involvement in Project oversight would require regular meetings, especially during
the initial phase of the Program. Board members would not receive salaries, but would receive costs and
honoraria for meetings. The PIU would serve as Secretariat to the Board of Directors and would arrange
meetings and presentations to the Board on issues relevant to the technology system and sector
development.
Details on structures, terms of reference, and procedures for the PIU and Board of Directors would be
included in the Project Operational Manual.
2. Functions of the Program Implementation Unit (PIU):
Project Coordination: In its role in Bank Project coordination, the PIU would be responsible for
preparing Project annual irnplementation plans and budgets, maintaining a Project Operational Manual,
administering funds, coordinating Project financing and supervision with the Bank, and implementing a
Project monitoring and evaluation program. The PIU would operate a Special Account for Project
financing and would arrange annual audits of accounts. It would hire competent financial staff with the
capacity to prepare quarterly financial statements and technical and program staff necessary to meet needs
for Project Management Report-based disbursement procedures. The PIU would contract a financial
institution to serve as fiduciary for management of grant project funding and would contract an
intermediary to manage consultant and training services. The PIU would help coordinate and would
participate in Annual Program Performance Reviews.
Establishment of a Decentralized Technology System : The PIU would establish a decentralized
system to support technological innovation and farmer adoption of technology. The Project would develop
appropriate institutional arrangements based on a network of regional offices and participatory Agricultural
Technology Fora. Regions would be defined by market, transportation, and agro-ecological factors, roughly
corresponding to Northern, Central, and Southern Costa; Northern, Central, and Southern Sierra; and
Northern and Southern Selva. During the Project, the decentralized system would be established in three
regions to be selected based on analysis of potential for productivity increases, relative lack of current
technology services, existence of interest and capability in producer organizations, and population base of
indigenous peoples and medium-scale producers.
The PIU would recruit Regional Coordinators for the three regions, each familiar with the region of
his/her responsibility. Each Regional Coordinator would establish a small office and recruit an Assistant
Coordinator. Qualifications of Regional Coordinators and Assistants would include expertise in marketing,
agribusiness development, farmer organizations, and---as appropriate---capability in indigenous languages
of the area. The Regional Coordinators would prepare Annual Work Plans for their region to be approved
by the ATF Unit.
Regional Coordinators would establish Agricultural Technology Fora by making contact with and
convening a wide range of stakeholders. These Fora would be composed of local representatives of farmer
organizations, agricultural finance institutions, agribusiness enterprises, NGOs, universities, and other
research and extension institutions, thus bringing together users and providers of agricultural technology
services to assist in priority setting, planning, promotion and review of projects for the region. The Fora
would provide opportunities for open discussion of agricultural technology issues in the region and for
developing linkages between providers and suppliers of research and extension services. Initially, two Fora
would be established per region. Later, the appropriate number and geographic coverage of Fora would be
- 32 -



determined by the Fora membership, as they form around natural agricultural, market, and social areas. In
year three the PIU would begin organizing Fora in five additional regions.
Regional Coordinators with support from the ATF Unit would convene Fora workshops one or two times a
year. The Regional Coordinator would present diagnostic studies or regional analyses to initiate
discussions. Fora workshops would define local priorities for technology services (extension, adaptive
research, strategic research, training, and information) and select a representative to participate in review
and ranking of extension and adaptive research project proposals for the region.
Management of Competitive Grants Funds: The PIU would manage a Competitive Grants Fund for
efficient allocation of public sector financing for the agricultural technology system. Detailed procedures
for administration of the Fund would be included in the Project Operational Manual. The Fund would
finance an Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF) to co-finance regional projects providing extension and
adaptive research services to producer organizations. In implementing this program, the ATF Unit would
coordinate assistance to regional offices for:
*   defining regional priorities in collaboration with the Fora; preparing Calls for Proposals; screening
in-coming proposals; and contracting Regional Technical Review Panels.
*   approving grant proposals for funding based on recommendations of Regional Technical Review
Panels.
*   executing contract agreements with successful grant applicants, monitoring expenditures and reporting,
and arranging required audits.
*   arranging program promotion and training for producer organizations and service providers in proposal
preparation, project management, project reporting, and special issues (i.e., environmental impact
mitigation, women and indigenous peoples participation, marketing and business development, and
producer organizations).
*   arranging training for extension agents in: farmer organization development, marketing and credit
facilitation, business plan development, program planning, enviromnental issues, women and
indigenous peoples participation, extension methodologies, and selected technical courses.
*   contracting Subject Matter Specialists to provide specialized technical support to extension agents, as
required.
The Competitive Grants Fund would also finance competitive Strategic Program Development (SPD)
grants to co-finance program development and institutional strengthening for applied and strategic research,
extension agent training, and information services. The IS Unit would manage this program and coordinate:
*   definition of national priorities through analytical studies and input from regional Fora; preparation of
Calls for Proposals; screening in-coming proposals; and contracting Technical Review and Advisory
Panels.
*   approving grant proposals based on recommendations of Technical Review and Advisory Panels.
*   executing contract agreements, monitoring expenditures and reporting; and arranging required audits.
*   arranging program promotion and training for service providers in proposal preparation, project
management, and project reporting.
Program Monitoring and Evaluation: The PIU would carry out a monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) program to: provide information for effective program administration; improve understanding of
technological innovation processes and impacts, and assess Program performance and impacts. The PMEU
will have four professional staff with Masters degree level qualifications and relevant experience in fields
of economics, environment, social science, and information systems. The PMEU will be responsible for:
*   A Program Management Information System based on reporting from ATF/SPD projects. All project
proposals will include baseline data, performance and impact indicators and targets, and plans for
- 33 -



monitoring and evaluation. The project implementing agencies will be responsible for reporting and the
PMEU for quality control and maintaining a consolidated database on project performance and impact.
*   Case studies will measure project impacts at the outcome level. A TF Producer Impact Case Studies
of a sample of ATF extension and adaptive research grant projects will verify program impacts at the
farm and community level. The studies will include baseline and longitudinal studies to detect changes
over time in production, productivity, use of technologies, marketing and management systems, farm
incomes, attitudes towards technologies and technology services, environmental conditions, and
knowledge of technologies and management practices. A Study of Agricultural Technology Services
Markets also involving baseline and longitudinal surveys will measure: how willing producers are to
pay for technology services; to what extent are they doing so; and how many service providers are
active providing commercial technical and information services?
*  Special studies will provide guidance to the PIU on program impacts and ways of improving program
efficiencies and effectiveness. Critical studies during the first phase Project will include: measurement
of agricultural productivity, development of indicators and methodologies for monitoring
environmental impacts, assessment of participation of women and indigenous peoples in the ATF
program, and private sector attitudes and constraints to investment in agricultural technology. Other
studies might include: program impacts and relationships of technological innovation to poverty,
effectiveness of different extension approaches and activities, ex ante economic analysis of alternative
investments in agricultural research, alternative types of producer organization participation in ATF
projects, impact of information services programs on technology use and producer incomes, and
assessment of information needs of different categories of producers.
*   Strategic Program Peer Reviews will assess technical direction of Strategic Program Development
projects including: scientific quality, program performance, institutional linkages, and potential
impacts.
o  Annual Program Performance Reviews will assess Program operations, procedures, and impacts.
The second Program Performance Review during the third year of the Project would be a special
review to assess triggers and plans for the phase two Project.
3. Project Outputs: Key outputs would be: establishment of central and regional mechanisms for
technology system coordination; demonstration of the feasibility of implementing the ATF; and evaluation
and monitoring impact studies. These outputs would provide the basis for implementation of subsequent
phases of the Program. Specific outputs would be:
Output                    Phase I           Phase II          Phase III
* Strong PIU established with a           1                 0                 0
supportive Board of Directors
* Regional offices established and        3                 5                 0
operating efficiently                  _
* Efficient system established for ATF     1                0                 0
management
* M&E Program Studies completed           33                44                49
4. Phase IH and III Activities: During Phase II, the PIU would support expansion of the decentralized
technology system throughout the country and continue implementation of the ATF program. It would
continue support for institutional development under an expanded SPD program and would continue to
finance program evaluations and analyses. By the end of Phase II, the Government would have taken action
to establish the PIU as a permanent entity affiliated with the Ministry of Agriculture.
- 34 -



In Phase III, the PIU would be transformed into an Agricultural Technology Department as a permanent
unit within a modernized Ministry of Agriculture. This body would be responsible for policy, regulation
and coordination of public financing of a pluralistic agricultural technology system. It would continue to
administer the ATF and SPD programs and to provide analytical support for the development of an
agricultural technology system. It would, with the active role of the Board of Directors, serve as a channel
for public-private collaboration on technology issues.
Project Component 2 - US$7.20 million
B. Agricultural Technology Fund Component
The Project would finance a competitive Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF) to support agricultural
research and extension projects. The PIU would manage the Fund at the national level with decentralized
implementation through regional offices. The Fund would cofinance two types of grants: grants for the
private provision of extension advisory services and grants to research institutions for adaptive research
projects carried out in collaboration with producers.
Grants would be made in response to proposals submitted by applicants under competitive procedures.
Proposals would be submitted by producer groups in association with identified service providers (i.e.,
NGOs, government research institutes, universities, agribusiness firms, consulting firms, and individuals).
All projects would require cofinancing from grant recipients.
The purpose of the Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF) would be to increase efficiency in use of public
funding for agricultural technology innovation. The requirement that grant recipients prepare project
proposals and cofinance projects ensures that governrent financing responds to user demands and genuine
interests of participating institutions. Cofinancing leverages the amount of resources available for
technology innovation programs. Funding a range of institutions enables the technology system to exploit
both under-utilized capacity in the system and the comparative advantages of different institutions. Finally,
competitive allocation of funding would improve project quality.
Detailed procedures for Fund administration, competitive selection of projects, and cofinancing matrices
would be established by the PIU and included in an Operational Manual. The PIU would develop standard
contract documents to be used for projects financed by the Fund. All contract agreements would include
requirements that Bank procedures be followed for all procurement and would require regular reporting
keyed to the Project Management Report-base disbursement procedures. The PIU would maintain
standards of full transparency in implementation of the program, especially with respect to review and
award of grants and release of information on project outcomes and program implementation.
ATF extension grants would finance: extension agent salaries, operating costs, farmer training, and
extension materials. Adaptive research grants would finance research operating costs, including research
materials and supplies, travel, minor equipment requirements, facility renovation and maintenance, and
research assistant and laborer salaries. Grants may also finance short term training and travel for research
team leaders, but would not finance large construction, major equipment procurement, salary supplements,
general degree training programs, or salaries for lead researchers.
1. Extension Advisory Services Grants (US$ 4.46 million) Extension grant projects would assist
producers to adopt new production, post-harvest handling, and marketing technologies, defined broadly to
include technical, managerial, and organizational innovations in the agricultural production and marketing
system. A range of technologies are currently available that have potential to increase agricultural
productivity and farm incomes. Extension project activities and approaches would vary depending on local
needs, but would be based on privately contracted extension advisors providing technical assistance
through farmer groups to address constraints to crop and livestock production, marketing and post-harvest
- 35 -



handling, management of natural resources, and farm management. Extension projects would also include
activities to strengthen producer organizations and their ability to represent and serve the interests of their
members.
Priority Setting: Priorities for the extension grants program would be established through
consultations at the regional and national levels. General priorities for extension grants would be
established at the national level and approved by the Board of Directors. These would focus on increasing
small farm productivity to: enhance competitiveness, sustainably manage the agricultural natural resource
base, and alleviate poverty. Within this general framework, consultations in regional Fora would identify
specific priorities, which Regional Coordinators, in consultation with the ATF Unit, would include in
regional Calls-For-Proposal for extension grants.
Participating Institutions: Producer organizations are the target clients for the ATF extension
grants. A variety of types of producer groups would participate in the program including: commodity
production associations, traditional campesino community organizations (Communidades Campesinas,
Communidades Nativas, Cooperativos Agrarias de Producci6n, Grupos Campesinas, and Sociedades
Agrarias de Interes Social), irrigation user groups, cooperatives, women's organizations, and informa
groups (grupos solidarios). The producer organizations would enter into agreements with service providers
(private firms, universities, NGOs, individuals, or others) for implementation of specific extension
programs. Extension approaches and specific activities would be tailored to individual situations and
competencies of producers and service providers.
To aid in program quality control and in developing linkages between service providers and farmers,
Regional Coordinators would maintain registries of individuals and organizations qualified to provide
technical advisory services and of producer groups interested in obtaining extension advisory services.
Eligible producer organizations would: have at least 50 members recognized locally as small and
medium-scale producers (generally less than 25 hectares), be registered with the regional ATF office, have
adequate management capacity, and have the ability to provide required co-financing. Eligible service
providers would: be registered with the ATF regional office, have legal status, and have adequate technical
qualifications and financial guarantees. Both foreign and local firms would be eligible. Detailed eligibility
criteria and procedures for maintaining registries of producer organization and service providers would be
incorporated into the Project Operational Manual.
Proposal Solicitation: The grant process would start with the PIU establishing an indicative budget
for grants for each region. Initially, program allocations would be equal for each region, but in later stages
of the program, allocations would vary depending on: production indicators (i.e., agricultural GDP, etc.),
social indicators (i.e., farm population, farm incomes, etc.), government policies, and regional experience
with implementation of the program.
Regional Coordinators, with support from the ATF Unit and contract promoters, as needed, would initiate
a campaign to promote the extension grants program and introduce the new system of user-contracted
extension services. The Regional Coordinators and Fora would help to link producer organizations with
potential service providers, who would be expected to assist with introducing the program concept to
producer groups and developing joint project proposals.
Program promotion would include training and orientation seminars to assist producers and service
providers develop sound project proposals. Regional workshops would help groups to develop proposals
that involve participation of women, indigenous peoples, and the poor; address environmental concerns;
emphasize market and agribusiness development; and focus on priority local technical issues. Program
promotion would target women, indigenous peoples, and small farmers and would be provided in local
languages, as appropriate.
- 36 -



Producer organizations in conjunction with service providers would submit project proposals to ATF
Regional Offices. Proposals would follow a standard format to be developed by the PIU and would
describe: the producer organization and proposed service provider, the proposed extension program, budget
requirements and cofmancing plan, environmental impacts and mitigative measures, plans for incorporation
of women and indigenous peoples, and expected results and impacts. Proposals would be signed by both the
farmer organization and the service provider. The PIU would encourage adequate competition to ensure a
supply of good proposals and a rigor in the selection process.
The PIU would monitor the program for participation of indigenous peoples, gender equity, and adequacy
of supply of services to women farmers. Training and orientation courses for proposal preparation would
emphasize these concerns and Fora would undertake special promotion and training efforts to ensure that
women are adequately represented as extensionists and beneficiaries. The Fora would also encourage
proposal preparation by indigenous groups and assist such groups to prepare proposals that provide
extension services in the local language.
Proposal Review: Regional Coordinators would review in-coming proposals and screen these for
completeness and conformity to program criteria. Incomplete and non-conforming proposals would be
returned to applicants. The Regional Coordinator would submit all other proposals to a Regional Technical
Review Panel contracted by the Regional Coordinator in consultation with the ATF Unit.
Regional Technical Review Panels would be composed of members familiar with agricultural and social
conditions in the region, including the needs of indigenous peoples where applicable, and knowledgeable
about potential innovations in agricultural technology. Panels would have six members, including
specialists in crop agriculture, livestock, environment and natural resources, agricultural economics, and
extension and a representative from the PIU. Panel members would individually review and score proposals
according to: technical soundness, conformity to established priorities for the area, methodology, potential
benefits and beneficiaries, cost-effectiveness (including cofinancing contribution), environmental impacts,
and capacity of the producer organization and the extension service provider. Panels would then convene as
a group under the chairmanship of the Regional Coordinator and with participation of one representative
named by each participating regional Forum. The full Panel would discuss all proposals and recommend
proposals for: approval or rejection. Proposals recommended for approval would be ranked in order of
priority. The Regional Coordinator would return all rejected proposals with an explanation as to why the
proposal was rejected and with appropriate recommendations for revision and re-submission. All approved
proposals would be forwarded to the PIU.
The PIU would check all proposals approved by the Regional Technical Review Panels for compliance
with environmental and social guidelines. The PIU would rank all approved proposals for award of grants.
Lower ranked proposals from one region may be passed over and funds earmarked for that region
reallocated to higher-ranked proposals of another region. The PIU would consolidate its recommendations
and forward them to the Board of Directors for approval. If any region consistently lags in receipt of grant
awards, the PIU would allocate additional resources to that region for training and promotion to improve
grant proposal quality.
Grant Award and Financing: The PIU would establish criteria for ATF project cofinancing and
incorporate these into the Project Operational Manual and Calls-for-Proposals. The ATF would generally
not cofmance proposals from the large farm sector, but would target medium-scale, market-oriented
producers and would encourage them to increase their share of cofinancing over time. Projects with
smaller, subsistence-oriented producers would rely more heavily on cofinancing by NGOs or other service
providers.
Following award of a grant, the PIU would sign a contract with the service provider for the provision of
extension services as stipulated in the approved proposal and signed by both the farmer organization and
- 37 -



the provider. Release of project funding would be based on authorization of the producer organization.
Program budgets are based on profiles developed for three sizes of projects with 100, 200, or 300
participating farmers. The average extension grant project would benefit 150 farmers, last three years, and
involve 1.5 extension agents. Each regional office would scale up the extension grants program with award
of I  grants the first year, 13 the second, and 17 each year thereafter. Extension grants would fund up to a
maximum of 95 percent of total extension project cost, a maximum grant amount of US$ 150,000 and a
maximum project life of three years. The following break-down in cofinancing for the Project as a whole is
indicative of what might be expected over the life of the Program:
Financing for ATF Extension Projects:                                                      - -
Financier                  Phase I           Phase II          Phase m
Agricultural Technology Fund               90                80                70
Other: Producers                           10                10                15
Other: Extension Service Suppliers          0                10                15
Extension Project Implementation Support: Extension project implementation responsibility
would lie with producer organizations and the contracted extension services providers. The PIU would
contract additional training and technical support services to enhance program quality. Regional Fora
workshops would introduce key issues of marketing, agribusiness development, producer organization,
environmental management, gender sensitivity, and priority technical issues important to proposal
development. Project start up training for producer organization leaders and the service providers would
cover procurement, reporting, and fnancial management procedures. Training for extensionists in on-going
projects would cover technical, agribusiness, managerial, and extension topics, as appropriate to regional
and project needs. Short term consultant services from subject matter specialists would assist extension
agents with specialized implementation issues. This implementation support would enhance a commercial
orientation and technical program quality of extension advisory services.
Program monitoring would be coordinated by the PMEU. Each project would submit semi-annual reports
to the Regional Coordinator following a standard format. Regional Coordinators would evaluate project
performance on a semi-annual basis and regional staff would visit each active project at least once per year.
Projects would report their experience and accomplishments at the semi-annual Fora workshops. The PIU,
using contracted services as necessary, would ensure regular monitoring of project activities, including
monitoring compliance with environmental commitments. Monitoring and evaluation would receive special
emphasis while program procedures are being established and program impacts verified during this Project.
2. Adaptive Research Grants (US$ 2.77 million): The ATF would also fund adaptive research projects
focused on resolving constraints to small farm productivity and income generation. Grants for adaptive
research would be implemented under the same general procedures as those for extension services as
previously described.
Priority Setting and Proposal Solicitation: The adaptive research grants program would follow the
same procedures for priority setting, program promotion, allocation of funding by regions, and project
preparation as described for the extension grants program. Proposals for both programs would be solicited
under a single call-for-proposals, which would clearly specify that the grant competition is for two separate
programs.
Participating Institutions: Eligibility criteria would be the same as for extension grants. Proposals
would be initiated by: producer groups, research organizations, NGOs, or agribusinesses that identify local
problems, or by Fora that identify a research priority and promote institutional alliances to develop
research proposals. Adaptive research grants would be made to research service providing institutions with
- 38-



grants requiring that producers be associated with and contribute to the project. Research services would
generally be provided by universities, INIA, other government agencies, foundations, and NGOs.
Proposal Review: Proposal review would follow the same process and use the same Regional
Technical Review Panel as for extension grants. The review procedure would maintain a separation of the
two types of proposals. Adaptive research grant proposal evaluation criteria would include: scientific merit,
conformity to area-defined priorities, plans for dissemination of findings, potential benefits and
beneficiaries, cost-effectiveness (including cofinancing contribution), environmental and social
implications, and capacity of applicant (i.e., qualifications, equipment, laboratories, etc.).
Grant Award and Financing: Procedures for grant approval, contracting, and release of funding
would be the same as for extension grants. A percent of project funding would be retained for release upon
submission of a final report acceptable to the PIU.
The adaptive research grants would fund up to a maximum of 75 percent of total project cost, a maximum
grant amount of US$ 300,000 and a maximum project life of three years. Each regional office would scale
up the adaptive research grants program, financing three projects the first year, five the second, and nine
each year thereafter. Cofmancing policies for adaptive research projects would generally follow those
outlined for the extension grants program. It is expected that initially less funding would be provided by
producers and a larger share of cofinancing would be from NGOs and other extension service providers
seeking to complement and improve the impact of their extension programs. The following estimate of
cofinancing is indicative of what might be expected over the life of the Program.
Financing for ATF Adaptive Research Projects:
Financier                  Phase I           Phase II          Phase III
Agricultural Technology Fund               65                65                60
Other: Producers                            5                 5                10
Other: Research Institution                30                30                30
Implementation Support: Institutions providing adaptive research services would be expected to
have adequate capability to execute projects with little additional support from the Regional Coordinator or
the PIU. Monitoring and evaluation procedures would be the same as for extension grants. Final reports
would be required for all grants to ensure that research findings are shared as widely as possible.
4. Outputs: Outputs from the ATF Component would be a series of research and extension projects
demonstrating the feasibility of competitive financing for decentralized technology projects. Innovations
introduced by these projects would increase productivity and profitability of participating farms and would
initiate a process of technological transformation of Peruvian small-holder agriculture. Collectively, the
grant projects would begin the process of developing in the agricultural scientific community a more
demand-driven, results-oriented approach to program planning and development. Specific outputs of the
programs include:
Outputs                     Phase I      Phase II    Phase M
* Extension advisory services projects        123          494          680
implemented
* Adaptive research projects implemented       51          238          360
5. Phase II and III Activities: In later APL Projects, the ATF extension and adaptive research grant
programs would continue with expanded operations and refinements of operating procedures. These diverse
projects would have substantial impact on technology use in Peruvian small-holder agriculture and on the
supply and demand for research and extension services to support a modernizing agricultural sector.
- 39 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 3.20 million
C. Institutional Strengthening
The Project would finance institutional strengthening for key programs in a number of institutions within
the agricultural technology system. This component would support strategic national research programs
and national extension support programs to rebuild capacity eroded over recent years, exploit the potential
of new advances in science and technology, and provide the technical backing and flow of new technologies
to support adaptive research and extension activities. The Project would finance: planning and priority
setting for program development in priority areas, development of institutional strategies for key
institutions, and competitive grants for strategic program development (SPD) projects.
The Project would finance: (a) consultant services and workshops for strategic program planning and
priority setting and for institutional analyses and strategy development and (b) strategic program
development (SPD) grants. The SPD grants would finance: research costs (including supplies, services,
minor equipment purchases, minor repairs and renovation, support staff salaries, travel, and short term
training); minor rehabilitation of civil works; limited investments in vehicles, computers, and equipment;
local and foreign technical assistance; local and foreign short term training and local Masters degree
training; costs of strategic alliance and technical network formation; and operating costs for information
collection, analysis, and dissemination.
1. Strategic Planning: The Project would finance a series of analyses and planning studies for priority
technology program areas. The program areas to be approved by the Board of Directors are expected to
include six research program areas [biotechnology, genetic resources, integrated pest management,
post-harvest handling and processing, natural resources management (including irrigation and water
management, soils and land management, agroforestry), and agricultural economics] and two extension
services support programs (extension agent training and agricultural information systems). Program area
selection is based on potential contributions to:
i   achieving national priorities (i.e., increasing agricultural competitiveness, contribution to poverty
alleviation, opening new export markets, protection of natural resources, etc.);
*   establishing an institutional base with core expertise, demonstrated comparative advantage, and
leadership needed to maintain program direction and long term contributions in the area;
*   providing direct impact on priority research and extension programs on a national level; and
e   accessing internationally available technologies for import and adaptation in Peru.
For each strategic program area, the PIU would contract expert review teams composed of recognized
foreign and local specialists to undertake a comprehensive inventory of current programs, capacities, and
interests in Peru and assess program areas in terms of potential technology and program development. Each
team would present its findings in a workshop with participation of local and foreign specialists in the
relevant field. Workshops would develop recommendations for priorities for future work and program
development in the technical field. Based on these workshops, the PIU would identify program priorities for
the SPD competitive grants program. These priorities would be approved by the Board of Directors.
Over the course of the Project, workshops would complete detailed priority setting and planning for six
strategic national research programs and two extension services support programs.
The Project would finance special studies and institutional analyses critical to technology system
development and system reforms in line with the "Strategy for Technological Innovation and Productivity in
Peruvian Agriculture". Institutional assessments and strategy studies would be approved by the Board of
Directors and coordinated by the IS Unit. These would help with institutional strategy formulation for key
institutions.
Each institutional analysis would assess an institution's organization, programs, budget, and comparative
-40 -



advantages in the national agricultural technology system and would result in a revised institutional
strategy and set of institutional priorities. The institutional analysis would follow a procedure similar to
that for strategic program priority setting. An expert review team would work with counterparts from the
institution to develop a set of findings and recommendations. These findings would be presented at a
workshop with wide participation of the institution's staff and stakeholders. Workshop proceedings and
recommendations would be incorporated into a final report of the expert review team. Following the
workshop, the expert review team and PIU staff would assist the institution to prepare a statement of
institutional strategy and priorities and an action plan for any reforms contemplated.
Institutional analyses are expected to be carried out for fNIA and OIA. During the project, competitive
procedures would be used to select other institutions for analysis based on their potential role in the
technology system, commitment to reform, and interest in developing an institutional strategy. Potential
collaborating institutions would include the various agricultural universities, information service agencies,
and others.
The PIU would coordinate other technology policy studies identified by the Ministry of Agriculture or the
Board of Directors with input from technology institutions. These would include studies relating to:
feasibility of establishing levies on agricultural products to finance agricultural technology programs;
genetic resources policy; seed industry regulatory reform; biosafety regulations; intellectual property rights,
or others.
2. Strategic Program Development (SPD) Grants: The Project would finance competitive grants for: (a)
strategic and applied research developing public goods technologies and information to feed adaptive
research and extension activities and (b) extension services support programs, including extension agent
training and agricultural information services. All projects would be co-financed.
SPD research grants would finance work in key disciplinary areas necessary to address critical
environmental problems and exploit changing market opportunities for agricultural products. SPD research
projects would seek to enhance inter-institutional coordination for upstream research and expand
collaboration drawing on and maximizing benefits from existing capacity of institutions active in these
fields.
SPD extension services support grants would finance capacity building in two broad program areas:
agricultural extension agent training and agricultural information services. SPD extension agent training
grants would improve the capability of training programs to produce technically-qualified extension
specialists able to plan and execute commercially-viable extension projects, draw on cornmunity resources
for participatory extension work, and communicate effectively with rural people. The agricultural
information services grants would develop programs to supply extension agents, producers, and
agribusinesses with relevant market and technical information necessary to the efficient functioning of a
dynamic market-oriented agriculture.
Priorities: Competition for SPD grants would be on a national basis open to proposals from various
technical fields. The Board of Directors would approve priorities for calls-for-proposals. Priorities for
strategic research program grants would include crop and livestock research in: genetic resources;
biotechnology; water and irrigation management; soil and land management; agro-forestry; integrated pest
management; post-harvest handling and processing; and agricultural economics.
SPD extension agent training grants would finance curricula improvements, staff training, and up-grading
of equipment and facilities for institutions training extension staff in regions in which ATF projects are
active. Projects would emphasize reform of training programs to provide extension workers with the skills
to work in market-oriented, private sector technology programs.
SPD information services grants would finance a range of information service activities, such as
- 41 -



establishing systems for market analyses or for consolidating technical information; using new
communications technologies to make market and technical information more rapidly available; or pilot
testing approaches to rural information dissemination (i.e., use of TV and radio, rural information centers,
newspapers and magazines, internet connections, etc.).
Participating Institutions: Target institutions for SPD research grants are universities and
government technical institutions. Institutional participation in these programs would be determined by
existing capacity, institutional commitment, and the ability to maintain program activities and program
financing on a sustainable basis. Potential participants include, but are not limited to: INIA, the National
Agricultural University at La Molina, other provincial and general universities, the National Institute for
Natural Resources (INRENA), the Center for Research and Production of Useful Insects (CICIU), and the
National Institute of Agro-Industrial Development (INDDA).
Agricultural universities are expected to be major participants in SPD extension agent training projects,
though government training centers, private training institutions, and NGOs may also participate. The
number of institutions to participate in each region remains to be determined.
Agricultural information services programs would involve collection, analysis and dissemination of
information. Projects for collection and analysis of information might involve the Office of Agricultural
Information (OIA) for market information and INIA or universities for technical information. Projects for
dissemination of information might involve a range of potential participants.
Public sector institutions are the most likely collaborators with interest, qualifications, and ability to
compete for SPD grants. Despite the fact that, the pool of potential applicants for some technical areas is
small, the competitive funding process is useful to encourage development of sound project proposals and
to avoid an attitude of complacency and entitlement. Competition for funding across, as well as within,
technical program areas would encourage sound proposal development.
Competition would be open to private sector and foreign institutions. However, SPD projects would be
required to demonstrate institutional strengthening and capacity building within Peru in either the public or
private sector. Foreign institutions competing for project funding would effectively be required to develop
proposals in collaboration with local institutions.
Competitive procedures would encourage development of networks in which institutions would collaborate
exploiting the different comparative advantages of each partner. For such networks, one lead institution
would submit a proposal including evidence of commitments from other partners collaborating on the
project.
Proposal Solicitation: The PIU would issue a Call-For-Proposals with a standard format for
proposal submission, criteria for review and selection of proposals, and details on eligible expenditures
under the grants. The PIU would conduct orientation and training seminars on program objectives and
proposal preparation to assist scientists and institutions with project planning and proposal development.
The Call-For-Proposals would advise of the availability of this orientation and training, which would be
scheduled as needed to meet demand.
Proposal Review: Proposals would be submitted to the PIU which would screen them for
completeness and conformity to program conditions. The PIU would contract a Technical Review and
Advisory Panel with eight members, one from each of the priority technical areas. Criteria for project
selection would include: scientific quality and technical soundness of the proposal, feasibility of completing
proposed work, potential for broad impact on national development objectives, institutional capacity to
undertake proposed work, contribution of the project to strengthening an on-going program, environmental
impacts, and cost-effectiveness, including consideration of the level of cofmancing from the applicant.
Development of institutional partnerships, collaborative networks, or international institutional alliances
-42 -



would be encouraged, but would not be a condition for award of grants. For SPD extension training and
information services projects, additional criteria would be cost-effectiveness of services and cost recovery
strategies to enable programs to become self-financing.
The Technical Review and Advisory Panel would review proposals and recommend them for rejection or
approval, ranking projects recommended for approval in order of priority. The Panel would submit its
recommendations to the PIU for approval by the Board of Directors. The PIU would advise all applicants
of results of the competition, providing explanations of why unsuccessful proposals were not funded.
Grant Award and Financing: Following Board of Directors approval of the budget, the PIU would
execute contracts with selected institutions for approved projects. The contracts would include: details on
institutions and programs to participate in the program and the roles and responsibilities of each; a
commitment to a defined program with focus on market and technological information needs of small
farmers; expected outputs from the program; activities to be supported; and cofinancing plans.
The SPD grants program would finance approximately 16 research projects, three extension agent training
projects, and three information services projects. The SPD grants would fund up to a maximum level of 65
percent of total project costs, a maximum grant amount of US$ 250,000, and a maximum project life of
three years.
Financing for Strategic Program Development Grant Projects:
Financier                  Phase I           Phase H           Phase m
Agricultural Technology Fund               50                50                50
Other: Producers          _                 0                 0                 0
Other: Participating Institution           50                50                50
Grant Implementation: Recipients of SPD grants would be expected to have substantial institutional
capacity and require no implementation support from the PIU. The IS Unit would monitor SPD projects
through reports submitted by executing agencies on a semi-annual basis and by visiting projects at least
once per year.
In year three, the PMEU would finance external peer reviews of selected SPD projects to assess program
performance and relevance, maintain program quality standards, encourage linkages with other programs
and recommend technical adjustments in the programs.
3. Outputs: Major outputs from the IS Component during the Project would be: development of strategic
program priorities and plans, institutional strategies, and results from strategic program projects
demonstrating the viability of competitive allocation of funding. Projected outcomes would be as follow:
Outputs                    Phase I          Phase II          Phase HI
* Priority technical program strategies    8                0                  0
and plans developed
* Institutional strategies developed       3                3                 3
*  Strategic research projects            16                16                16
*  Strategic extension training projects   3                 5                 0
* Strategic information services          3                 5                  5
projects
4. Phase HI and III Activities: In Phase II and III, strategic planning activities would continue, but at a
reduced level as most planning and priority setting work would be completed in the first phase.
The SPD program would finance competitive grants for development of more comprehensive technology
programs. Program funding would be allocated based on priorities established through technical analyses
-43 -



and planning work from Phase I plus input from producer consultations in regional Fora workshops. Grant
projects would continue to strengthen networks of public and private institutions collaborating in key
technology program areas. Research grants would finance strategic research, program development, and
institutional strengthening, with an increasing amount of the funding allocated to program infrastructure,
institutional alliances, collaborative network activities, and human resources development. SPD extension
training projects would strengthen training programs in five additional regions and information services
projects would make market and technical information more widely available to producers.
- 44 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
Table 3.A. Summary of Project Costs By Component (US$ million)
%     % Total
fUSS Million)         Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total Exchange  Costs
A. 1. PROGRAM & POLICY COORDINATION
Central Program Implementation Unit                      1.60     0.91      2.51        36        19
Regional Program Management & Support                    0.40     0.25      0.65        38         5
Subtotal 1. PROGRAM  & POLICY COORDINATION                 2.00      1.16     3.16        37        24
B. 2. AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY FUND
Extension Advisory Services Grants                       2.92     1.36      4.28        32       33
Adaptive Research Grants                                 1.85     0.80      2.65        30        20
Subtotal 2. AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY FUND                   4.77      2.16     6.93        31        53
C. 3. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Strategic Planning                                       0.34     0.35      0.69        50         5
Strategic Program Development Grants                     1.67     0.72      2.38        30        18
Subtotal 3. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                    2.01      1.06     3.07        35        23
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        8.77     4.38     13.16        33      100
Physical Contingencies                                   0.02     0.03      0.04        61         -
Price Contingencies                                      0.34     0.17      0.51        34         4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         9.13     4.58    13.72         33       104
Front-end fee                                               -     0.10      0.10       100         1
Total Costs to be Financed                                  9.13     4.68    13.82         35      105
Note: Due to rounding slight errors may appear in totals.
Table 3.B. Summary of Project Costs By Expenditure Account (US$ million)
%     % Total
/US$ Million)       Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS
Rehabilitation                                             0.01     0,00     0.02       25
B. GOODS
Vehicles                                                   0.05     0.09     0.14       65        1
Computer Equipment                                         0.03     0.06     0.10       65        1
Other Goods                                                0.03     0.03     0.05       50
Subtotal GOODS                                               0.11     0.18     0.29       62        2
C. SERVICES
Local Consultants                                          0.52     0.35     0.88       40        7
Foreign Consultants                                        0.13     0.29     0.42       70        3
Training, Seminars & Workshops                             0.32     0.21     0.53       40        4
Studies                                                    0.17     0.12     0.29       40        2
Subtotal SERVICES                                            1.14     0.97     2.11       46       16
D. GRANTS
Extension Advisory Services Grants                         2.59     1.11     3.70       30       28
Adaptive Research Grants                                   1.83     0.79     2.62       30       20
Strategic National Research Program Grants                 1.23     0.53     1.75       30       13
Information Services Program Grants                        0.15     0.06     0.21       30        2
Extension Program Development Grants                       0.29     0.13     0.42       30        3
Subtotal GRANTS                                              6.09     2.62     8.70       30       66
Total Investment Costs                                         7.35      3.77    11.11      34        64
II. Recurrent Costs
A. OPERATIONAL COSTS
Salaries & Benefits                                        1.01     0.43     1.44       30       11
Other Operational Costs                                    0.42     0.18     0.60       30        5
Total Recurrent Costs                                          1.43      0.61     2.04      30        16
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            8.77     4.38    13.16       33      100
Physical Contingencies                                       0.02     0.03     0.04       61         -
Price Contingencies                                          0.34     0.17     0.51       34        4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             9.13     4.58    13.72       33      104
Front-end fee                                                   -    0.10      0.10      100        1
Total Costs to be Financed                                      9.13     4.68    13.82       35      105
Note: Due to rounding slight errors may appear in totals.
- 45 -



Annex 4
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
Economic Analysis
Economic analysis for agricultural research and extension projects is methodologically difficult and often
not very useful for evaluating investment options relating to institutional development projects of this type.
This economic analysis follows current recommendations for good practice in the Bank and consists of
three sections: a summary of issues for economic analyses of research and extension projects; a summary
of global experience with returns to investments in agricultural technology projects; and an estimation of
the IRR and NPV for the proposed investment. It includes also an analysis of returns to producer
organization investment in an extension project.
A.     Issues in Economic Analysis of Research and Extension Projects
A draft AKIS Team Good Practice Note (Horstkotte-Wesseler and others 1999) reviews issues with
economic analysis of agricultural research and extension (R&E) within the framework of World Bank-
funded projects. This assessment concludes that the main objective of economic analysis of agricultural
R&E should not be the calculation of a single summary measure (normally subject to a wide range of
assumptions), but rather the mainstreaming of economic analysis into a process of evaluating costs and
benefits for more efficient allocation of scarce resources within the technology system. Given the large
share of R&E project resources allocated to institutional development, economic analysis of a whole project
as defined by a World Bank loan may not be warranted and ex-ante economic analysis of individual
investments within the project may be more appropriate.
Emphasis in World Bank projects should be placed on building capacity within national agricultural R&E
systems to undertake economic analysis (both ex-ante and ex-post) for effective evaluation, priority setting
and impact assessment on an ongoing basis. The Good Practice Note recommends the following strategies
to make economic analysis of R&E an integral part of the management processes within national systems.
* During project preparation, economic analysis should focus on (a) retrospective technology adoption
and impact studies to demonstrate that the current technology system has been productive in some
areas, and (b) prospective technology case studies to demonstrate the potential for research and
extension investments to produce good economic returns. The project preparation team has documented
the potential for good returns diffusion of recent innovations resulting from past INIA investment in
technology programs (Fano 1999). Field case studies identified areas of potential high returns to
research and extension to address farmer problems (various studies).
* During project implementation, emphasis should be on establishing a system to incorporate economic
analysis methods as a tool in R&E evaluation, planning, and priority setting on an ongoing basis. This
requires the development of capacity for improved R&E management and more attention to the
collection of baseline information and performance indicators. The project would finance institutional
capacity development in agricultural economics, including an emphasis on economic evaluation of
technology investments. The Project monitoring and evaluation system would draw on this capacity to
ensure a continuing process of economic and social impact evaluation of technology investments.
*   Agricultural research expenditures should be evaluated at the level of research programs for
important commodities or production systems (e.g., maize, beef, irrigated rice).
* Economic evaluation of expenditures for agricultural extension are valid when appropriate
technologies are available, but have not been adopted.
In order to build capacity for economic analysis and to create ownership for the results of the analysis,
-46 -



analyses should be undertaken by analysts within the national system. The preferred underlying model for
all approaches is the economic surplus method, or a simplification thereof, such as cost-benefit analysis.
However, the exact type of analysis to be conducted is determined by the activities to be financed, existing
and projected analytical capacity, and data availability within the national system.
B.    Global Experience with Returns to Agricultural Research and Extension Projects
A large number of ex post analyses of economic returns to agricultural research and extension investments
have shown these to yield high rates of return. The most recent and comprehensive review of literature in
this area is a 1999 IFPRI study ("A Meta-Analysis of Rates of Return to Agricultural R&D" by Alston,
Marra, Pardey, and Wyatt). This study reviewed 294 benefit-cost studies reporting 1,858 estimates of rates
of return to research and extension investments. After eliminating the extreme estimates (the highest and
lowest 2.5 percent), the remaining 1760 estimates indicated an average 73 percent per annum return to
R&D investments, confirming extremely positive returns to R&D investments.
The IFPRI study found average returns to research investments alone of 88 percent, extension alone
averaging 79 percent, and research and extension combined averaging 45 percent. The study suggested that
the lower estimate for research and extension combined might be due to these studies capturing more of the
total costs in the technology innovation process. The analysis found little difference in estimates between
different types of research and found no evidence of a decline in rates of return in recent years.
Favorable returns have also been documented in studies of returns to research in Peru with Ganoza and
others (1990) analyzing potential returns to research and extension in Peru and showing that rates of return
would be high, especially if investments were maintained. This analysis has recently been updated and
expanded to include milk production, confirming conclusions from the earlier work (Alarcon, 1999). As
part of project preparation, Fano (1999) evaluated expected impacts for the period 1992 to 2003 in selected
areas for 16 technologies developed by INIA, but not yet diffused. This study found that these technologies
would produce net benefits to investment in research and extension combined of US$ 29 million per year
and would have IRRs of between 11 percent (quinoa varietal development) to 39 percent (cotton
technology). In addition, field case studies carried out in three regions have identified technologies in each
region with high priority for diffusion and high potential returns to investments for diffusion of the
technologies. Preliminary data indicate returns of 30 to 100 percent.
C.    Estimation of IRR and NPV for Investments in Extension Projects
An estimate of economic returns to planned investments in ATF extension and adaptive research projects
was the basis for assessing economic impact of the Project. ATF extension and adaptive research projects
are more directly linked to economic benefits than are other project investments, such as technology system
coordination, strategic research, and extension support programs. These other investments were taken as
"overhead" costs for operation of an effective ATF extension and adaptive research program. The analysis
did not incorporate environmental benefits from improved natural resource management impacts.
The economic analysis was based on projections of APL Program costs and expected benefits from
producer adoption of improved technology as a result of participation in ATF projects. The economic
analysis is carried out for a 20 year period. Incremental costs are estimated as all APL program costs,
including ATF project costs plus costs of research and extension capacity building and PIU operations
through and beyond the APL Program period. Project benefits are estimated as the incremental income
benefits to producers due to earlier adoption of improved management practices and technologies due to
participation in ATF projects. Technology adoption is assumed to follow a one-year lag period and to
increase by 20 percent of potential coverage per year until full adoption in year six. In the "without project"
scenario, technology adoption is assumed to begin after six years and increase by 20 percent per year until
full adoption in year I1. Technology spillover is assumed with spread benefits to two indirect beneficiaries
- 47 -



for every direct participant, with a lag of three years and with the same adoption pattern. Average farm
income is assumed to be $2594 (AgGDP in 1997/1.7 million farms) and management and technology
improvements are assumed to increase net farm income by 20 percent for direct beneficiaries and 10
percent for indirect beneficiaries. (Income increases are conservatively estimated at two-thirds of Project
target levels for income increases.) ATF project starts follow the profile developed for the project budget
and implementation plan. Estimates of income increases and technology adoption rates are based on field
case studies and experience in other projects in Peru and neighboring countries.
The analysis is conservative in attributing all APL Program costs to the extension projects, even though
strategic research, improved sector policy and management, and training and information services would
benefit the many other extension and production programs operating in the country. The estimate of spread
effects (two indirect adopters for every direct adopter) is at the conservative end of the usual range of two
to three indirect adopters per direct extension program participant. Baseline income estimates of farm
production are based on gross estimates of numbers of farms and value of production, but are thought to be
reasonable (approximately US$ 519 per family member) considering that the project would target neither
the largest nor smallest production units.
Table 4.A. presents the economic analysis for ATF program investments. This analysis yields a project
NPV of US $ 224 million (at a 12 percent discount rate) and an IRR of 39 percent. Sensitivity analyses
indicate that reducing program benefits by half would reduce the IRR to 21 percent and the NPV to US$ 58
million; introducing an additional two year lag time in technology adoption and benefits yields a 25 percent
IRR and US$ 133 million NPV; and eliminating any benefits from spread effect (indirect beneficiaries)
would reduce the NPV to US$ 95 million and the IRR to 28 percent. The conservative estimates and
robustness of rate of return estimates indicates that the program would be a sound investment.
- 48 -



Table 4.A: Economic Analysis of Extension and Adaptive
Research Proiect Investments
Net
Incremental    Net     Net
Total                       Benefits With Incremental Incremental
Incremental Total Project Program Net  50 %    Benefits With Benefits Wit
Program    Costs-All  Incremental Reduction in Three Year No Indirect
Benefits  Components  Benefits   Benefits  Adoption Lag  Adopters
Year    (US$ Million) (US$ Million) (US$ Million) (US$ Million) (US$ Million) (US$ Million)
1          0.0       2.5       -2.5      -2.5       -2.5      -2.5
2          0.5        4.2      -3.7      -4.0       -4.2      -3.7
3          1.8        7.2      -5.4      -6.3       -7.2      -5.4
4          3.8       18.7      -14.8     -16.7     -18.1     -14.8
5          8.3       21.1      -12.8    -16.9    -19.3       -13.4
6         15.3       24.1      -8.8      -16.5    -20.3      -10.6
7         24.9       25.7       -0.8     -13.3    -17.5      -4.6
8         37.9       28.4       9.5      -9.4      -13.1      1.8
9         54.1       29.4      24.7      -2.4      -4.5       11.1
10         72.2      28.6       43.6      7.5       9.3       22.5
11         91.8      27.5       64.3      18.4      26.6      34.1
12        111.9      27.1       84.8      28.8      45.1      44.3
13        131.4       2.4      128.9      63.2      89.4      77.8
14        147.4       2.4      145.0      71.3      109.5     83.3
15        158.8       2.4      156.4      77.0      128.9     85.0
16        165.3       2.4      162.9      80.2      145.0     82.6
17        164.7       2.4      162.3      79.9      156.4     76.5
18        156.6       2.4      154.2      75.9     162.9      66.7
19        143.7       2.4      141.3      69.4     162.3      56.2
20         127.1      2.4       124.7     61.1      154.2     45.8
Total      1617.7    264.1    1353.6    544.8    1082.7    632.8
NPV(12%)=  $331.52   $107.72   $223.80   $58.04   $132.76   $94.60
IRR =         _          _       39%       21%   I  25%        28%
D.    Estimation of Returns to Producer Organization Investments in Extension Projects
Analysis of financial returns to an individual ATF extension project provides an indication of the viability
of participation by producers. The project is assumed to be implemented by a farmer organization with 150
members receiving extension services. Farmer adoption of new technologies follows a one year lag period,
with adoption of technology increasing by 20 percent of member production per year until full adoption in
year six. Average farm income follows assumptions given above, with management and technology
improvements assumed to increase net farm income by 20 percent. The analysis assumes that producers
would cover all project costs, but does not account for overhead costs for management, strategic research
and extension support program costs, spread effects to indirect beneficiaries, or environmental benefits to
producers. The analysis assumes an additional five year lag period for technology adoption and income
increases without the project.
Table 4.B. presents the financial analysis for the model extension project investment. This analysis yields a
project NPV of US $ 239,000 (at a 12 percent discount rate) and an IRR of 78 percent. Sensitivity
analyses indicate that reducing program benefits by half would reduce the IRR to 56 percent and
-49 -



introducing an additional two year lag time in technology adoption and benefits would yield a 41 percent
1RR. These estimates indicate acceptable rates of return which should make project participation
financially viable for small and medium-scale producers.
_______Table 4.13. Finan ial Analvsis for Sinale Extensinn Proiect
Net Benefit
Per Participant    Total                        Net Project
with Full   Incremental                      Benefits with   Net Project
Adoption (20%   Benefits for  Total            Decrease of  Benefit With a
# of extension Increase over    Direct  Extension   Net Project   30 % in  Three Year Lag in
project   US$ 2594    Participants  Project Cost Benefits (US$ Benefits (US$ Adoption (US$
Year    participants    base)   (US$ 000)   (US$ 000)     000)       000)         000)
1        150.0      518.8        0.0         22.7       -22.7      -22.7        -22.7
2        150.0       518.8       15.6        22.7       -7.2       -11.8        -22.7
3        150.0      518.8        31.1        22.7        8.4        -1.0        -22.7
4        150.0       518.8       46.7         0.0        46.7       32.7         15.6
5        150.0      518.8        62.3        0.0        62.3        43.6        31.1
6        150.0       518.8       77.8        0.0        77.8        54.5        46.7
7        150.0       518.8       74.7        0.0         74.7       52.3        62.3
8        150.0      518.8        71.6        0.0        71.6        50.1         77.8
9        150.0       518.8       68.5        0.0         68.5       47.9         74.7
10       150.0       518.8       65.4         0.0        65.4       45.8         71.6
11       150.0       518.8       62.3         0.0        62.3       43.6         68.5
12       150.0       518.8       49.8         0.0        49.8       34.9         65.4
13       150.0       518.8        37.4        0.0        37.4       26.1         62.3
14       150.0       518.8       24.9         0.0        24.9        17.4        49.8
15       150.0       518.8        12.5        0.0        12.5        8.7         37.4
16       150.0       518.8        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         24.9
1=7      150.0       518.8        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         12.5
18       150.0       518.8        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0
1 9      150.0       518.8        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0
20       150.0       518.8        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0
Total  I  3000.0    10376.0       700.4        68.2       632.2      422.0        632.2
NPV @.12%=               $294.05      $54.62     $239.43    $151.22       179.80
|IRR =                  _                          78%        56%          41%
- 50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
Table 5.A. Summary of Project Costs By Expenditure Account and Source of Financing (US$ million)
Local
World Bank         Others       The Government         Total         For.   (Excl. Duties &
Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %               Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS
Rehabilitation            0.01     50.0        -        -    0.01     50.0    0.02       0.1    0.00     0.01
B. GOODS
Vehicles                   0.11    65.0        -        -    0.06     35.0    0.16       1.2    0.11        -    0.06
Computer Equipment        0.07     65.0        -        -    0.04     35.0    0.11       0.8    0.07        -    0.04
Other Goods               0.04     75.0        -        -    0.01     25.0    0.06       0.4    0.03     0.02     0.01
Subtotal GOODS               0.22    66.8        -        -    0.11     33.2    0.33       2.4    0.21     0.02     0.11
C. SERVICES
Local Consultants         0.77     85.0        -        -    0.14     15.0    0.90       6.6    0.36     0.41     0.14
Foreign Consultants       0.32     75.0        -        -    0.11     25.0    0.43       3.2    0.30     0.02     0.11
Training, Seminars &
Workshops                  0.46    85.0        -        -    0.08     15.0    0.54       4.0    0.22     0.24     0.08
Studies                   0.26     85.0        -        -    0.05     15.0    0.30       2.2    0.12     0.14     0.05
Subtotal SERVICES            1.81    83.0        -        -    0.37     17.0    2.18      15.9    1.00     0.81     0.37
D. GRANTS
Extension Advisory
Services Grants           3.28     85.0    0.58      15.0    0.00        -    3.86      28.2    1.16     2.70        -
Adaptive Research
Grants                    1.78     65.0    0.96      35.0   -0.00     -0.0    2.74      19.9    0.82     1.91
Strategic National
Research Program
Grants                    0.91     50.0    0.91      50.0   -0.00     -0.0    1.82      13.3    0.55     1.27
Information Services
Program Grants            0.11     50.0    0.11      50.0       -        -    0.22       1.6    0.07     0.15
Extension Program
Development Grants        0.22     50.0    0.22      50.0       -        -    0.44       3.2    0.13     0.31
Subtotal GRANTS              6.30    69.4    2.78      30.6    0.00        -    9.08      66.2    2.73     6.35        -
Total Investment Costs         8.34     71.9    2.78     23.9    0.49      4.2   11.61      84.6    3.95      7.18     0.48
II. Recurrent Costs
A. OPERATIONAL COSTS
Salaries & Benefits       0.82     54.9        -        -    0.67     45.1     1.49     10.8    0.45     0.82     0.22
Other Operational Costs   0.34     55.0        -        -    0.28     45.0    0.62       4.5    0.19     0.34     0.09
Total Recurrent Costs          1.16     54.9       -        -    0.95     45.1    2.11      15.4    0.63      1.16     0.31
Total Project Costs            9.50     69.3    2.78      20.2    1.44     10.5   13.72    100.0    4.58      8.34     0.79
Front-end Fee             0.10    100.0        -        -       -        -    0.10       0.7    0.10        -        -
Total Costs To be Financed     9.60     69.3    2.78      20.2    1.44     10.5   13.82    100.7    4.58      8.34     0.79
Note: Due to rounding slight errors may appear in totals.
Table 5.B. Summary of Project Costs By Source of Financing (US$ million)
World Bank         Others       The Government         Total
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %
I. Foreign                         3.75     81.7    0.84     18.3    0.00         -    4.59      33.5
II. Local (ExcI. Taxes)            5.75     68.9    1.94     23.3    0.65       7.8    8.34      60.8
III. Taxes                            -        -        -        -    0.79    100.0    0.79       5.7
Total Project Costs                9.50     69.3    2.78     20.2    1.44      10.5   13.72    100.0
Front-end fee                    0.10    100.0       -        -        -        -    0.10      0.7
Total Promect Financing            9.60     69.5    2.78     20.1    1.44      10.4   13.82    100.7
Note: Due to rounding slight errors may appear in totals.
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
Procurement
All procurement of goods and works under the Project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and Revised
January and August 1996, and September 1997. Consultants would be employed in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers " dated January
1997 and Revised September 1997.
Works. Civil works for the Project are estimated to cost about US$ 20,000 and would include
rehabilitation of Project central headquarters and regional offices. World Bank financing for civil works
would amount to US$ 10,000 or about 50% of the total civil works cost. Contracts would be awarded on a
lump-sum, fixed price basis using Shopping Procedures (Shopping) satisfactory to the Bank.
Goods. Goods for the Project are estimated to cost about US$ 330,000. Goods to be procured would
include vehicles, computers and associated equipment such as printers and scanners, and furniture and
equipment for offices. Goods would be consolidated into procurement packages as large as possible in
order to facilitate the administrative procurement operation and to achieve cost benefits through
consolidated purchasing procedures. Vehicles, computers, and equipment estimated to cost over US$50,000
would be purchased using National Competitive Bidding Procedures (NCB), acceptable to the Bank. Goods
costing less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract may be procured using Shopping Procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Technical Services. Technical assistance and training services are estimated to cost about US$ 2.18
million. About 82% of the cost of technical assistance would be contracted with locally available
individuals and firms. Training would consist of local degree and local and foreign non-degree training.
Non-degree training would include short-term seminars, workshops and study tours, both local and foreign.
Technical assistance would consist of both short and long term local and foreign consultants. For the most
part contracts for training and technical assistance would be awarded through Consultants Qualification
and Fixed Budget selection methods. Some of the training, however, is expected to be sole sourced due to
the specific technical know-how required. Likewise, technical assistance to farmer/producer associations
for preparation of Grant proposals would be contracted directly from a register of firms/NGOs maintained
by the PIU. The beneficiaries themselves would select the firm/NGO who would assist them; the average
amount of these contracts is estimated at $800. The aggregate amount for all sole-sourcing would total
$200,000. Contracts with individuals would use the selection procedures outlined in Section V of the
Consultants' Guidelines. Terms of reference for all technical assistance would be subject to prior review by
the Bank.
Grants. Grants are estimated to cost about US$ 9.08 million and would be co-financed by the private
sector including, but not limited to, universities, producers, farmer's associations, NGOs and others. Grants
would finance contracts selected on a competitive basis for implementation of extension advisory services
and adaptive research projects. Service providers would be legally constituted organizations that meet
established qualifications as defined in the OM and are registered with the PIU. Grants would also finance
contracts between the PIU and participating agencies for strategic program development projects to
strengthen applied and strategic research programs and extension services support programs. Procurement
under the Grants, for institutions operating as commercial or private enterprises would follow commercial
practices which would include price comparisons from three qualified suppliers whenever possible. Public
sector institutions would follow shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Purchase of land will not be
- 52 -



financed by the Project. Procedures and condition of grant competition and awards would be set forth in
the Operational Manual (OM). The PIU would be responsible to ensure that grantees follow these
procedures.
Recurrent Costs. The total recurrent cost of the Project is estimated at US$2. 11 million, which would
include salaries of project staff, national and regional, office supplies, utilities, communications,
maintenance, fuel, rent for seminars etc. Financing by the Borrower would gradually increase over the life
of the Project. The Program Implementation Unit would have salaries and operational costs included in the
Project as incremental recurrent costs.
Institutional Capacity Assessment. The assessment was conducted by Ms. Carmen P. Nielsen, the
Procurement Acredited Staff assigned to the Project, and included meetings with the PIU and with other
officials from the Ministry of Agriculture. The project has been rated as "low risk" with respect to
procurement aspects.
The capacity assessment included a visit to six NGOs and three private firms that are included in the PIU's
register of potential service providers. The entities visited showed at least a basic administrative capability
and their procurement procedures, in most cases based on commercial practices, have been found to be
acceptable.
PIU would be autonomous and work independently within the Ministry of Agriculture (MA); it is already
staffed with a Procurement Officer capable to provide procurement support. The Operational Manual will
contain procurement and administrative procedures, as well as other organization and operational aspects
of the Project. To reduce the risk of conflicting NCB procedures contained in national legislation, the
following special provisions are recommended to be included in the legal agreement.
*   Award of goods and works contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever appropriate,
shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
*   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not be declared void if only only
two bids or less have been submitted unless such bids have been determined not to be responsive.
*   Foreign bidders and consultants shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to their bids
with Peruvian authorities as a prerequisite to bid.
*  No reference value shall be published in the bidding documents for contracting goods, works or
consultants.
Prior Review. The following would be subject to prior review by the Bank: the first contract using NCB
procedures for goods; the first contract for goods to be procured in each calendar year using shopping
procedures; each contract for the employment of consulting firms procured under Fixed Budget procedures;
and each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more. All other contracts would be subject to post review by the Bank or through procurement audits.
Table B details thresholds for prior review.
Procurement Audits. The Project will contract a procurement auditor acceptable to the Bank to perform
annual audits, on a sample basis, of contracts not included in the prior review process.
Procurement Plan. Prior to loan effectiveness, a procurement plan for the first year of project
implementation would be presented to the Bank; such a plan would be updated annually on a rolling basis.
- 53 -



Financial management
Disbursement: A three year period for loan disbursement is estimated with effectiveness expected on
January 1, 2000, a Project Completion Date of December 31, 2002, and a Loan Closing Date of June 30,
2003. An amount of US$ 250,000 of eligible expenditures made after August 31, 1999, may be financed
retroactively from the loan account. Table C shows the allocations of the proceeds of the loan. Over the life
of the Project and including financing of commitment charges, the Bank would disburse about US$ 9.60
million, or 70% of the total Project cost. An estimated delay of about six months has been assumed
between contract signing and first disbursement from Bank funds. The annual estimated disbursements are
indicated in a table on the first page of this Project Appraisal Document.
Semi-annual plans would be the mechanism for making disbursement estimates and measuring
disbursement performance. The allocation of loan proceeds is indicated in Table C of this annex. The Bank
loan would finance 50 percent of all eligible costs for Civil Works, 67 percent of all eligible expenditures
for Goods, 83 percent of all eligible expenditures for Services, 100 percent of amounts disbursed for
Grants, and 55 percent for all eligible expenditures for Recurrent Costs. Loan financing for Recurrent Cost
expenditures would be on a declining basis.
This Project would comply with the principles and concepts of the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI), whereby quarterly Bank disbursements are tied to financial statements, project progress reports,
and procurement management reports.  Initially the PIU would follow the traditional disbursement
system, but would move onto Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) as it gains familiarity with
Bank project operating procedures and receives required training. The move onto PMR-based disbursement
would be expected to be no later than 18 months from Board Approval Date.
Until PMR-based disbursement procedures are adopted, a Special Account in US Dollars would be
established in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, with an authorized allocation of US$ 900,000.
The advance to the Special Account would be limited to US$ 400,000 until disbursements from the loan
would have reached US$ 1.0 million. Most loan funds, including Extension Services Grants, the Adaptive
Research Grants and the SPD Grants, are expected to be disbursed through SOEs and PMRs. For all other
expenditures, e.g., contracts for consultant services over threshold levels of US$ 50,000 with individuals or
$ 100,000 with firms, full supporting documentation would be required. The Special Account should be
maintained by a depositary bank in a way that satisfies the requirements listed in Annex A of OP 12.2.
Bank statements would show all transactions in and out of the account, including amounts advanced and
reimbursed by the World Bank, and the balance at the end of each month.
Upon moving to the PMR system, both the Bank and the Borrower would make sufficient funds available
to finance the first six months of Project operation. The Bank's initial deposit into the Special Account
(SA) covering the first six month operation is estimated at US$ 500,000; the Borrower's deposit is
estimated at US$ 200,000 equivalent. All Project expenses would be paid out of these two accounts. The
Bank and the Borrower would make quarterly replenishments of Project disbursements made out of these
two accounts. Replenishment of the Bank's portion of these expenses would be contingent upon satisfactory
advancement of the Project as indicated by quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) submitted to the
Bank by Government. The format for these reports would be agreed upon during Loan Negotiations.
Government would maintain full documentation of Project expenses available for periodic review by the
Bank and independent auditors.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. The PIU would establish a financial
department headed by a qualified financial officer and sufficiently staffed by accountants to keep adequate
records specific to the Project and prepare the financial statements and auxiliary staff to execute financial
operations and provide control over Project assets. They would install a Project-specific general ledger
which would provide the basis for government reporting and support the preparation of the Report 1 of the
- 54 -



PMR. This system would have a double-entry automated accounting system comprising a general ledger
and supporting subsidiary records (check register, journal ledger and individual asset records). The account
structure used to record expenditures would comprise three classifications: the government budget
classifications, the component and sub-component of the Project document, loan categories, sources of
funds, and contracts. The automated accounting system would be Y2K compliant and contain required
security features.
The Project would develop and document the detailed procedures for all financial operations of the Project.
These should include descriptions of the following: job descriptions, cash receipts, disbursements, control
over advances, replenishment procedures, account reconciliation and controls, and reporting requirements.
The PIU would include these in the Program Operations Manual.
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, deposits into the Special Account and their replenishments
would be made on the basis of cash withdrawals statements based initially on Statements of Expenditure.
Similarly the PIU would execute an action plan to develop the capacity to produce all components of the
quarterly PMR, as required under LACI, by September 30, 2000. The financial management system has
been evaluated by Mr. Livio Pino (LCOAA) and is not yet adequate to project requirements. An Action
Plan for setting up an adequate financial management system has been agreed to and includes the following:
development of satisfactory financial and accounting policies for the project; preparation of a flow-of-funds
chart, preparation of cash-flow for the first six months; preparation of a complete chart of accounts;
development of a reporting format for producers organizations; establishment of a format for periodic and
annual financial reporting; and completion of financial section of the Operational Manual.
Following conversion to PMR-based disbursements, replenishments to the Special Account would be based
on cash forecasts contained in quarterly Project Management Reports. Each of these reports would: (i)
show actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period, and
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the following six-months; (ii) list separately
expenditures financed out of the credit during the period covered by the report and expenditures proposed
to be financed during the following six-month period; (iii) describe physical progress in Project
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered, and explain variances between the actual
and previously forecast implementation targets; and (iv) set forth the status of procurement under the
Project and expenditures under contracts financed from the credit for the period covered.
Audit. The Project accounts, including contracts and their modifications and amendments, as well as the
deposits and withdrawals from the Special Account would be audited each year by an independent auditing
firm acceptable to the Bank and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. In addition to the
annual financial statements conforming to International Standards on Auditing (IFAC Standards), the audit
report would include comments on the accuracy and propriety of all expenditures and on the extent to
which supporting information could be relied upon as a basis for requesting disbursements from the loan
using PMRs. Audit reports with the related statements would be submitted to the Bank within six months
of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. All supporting records would be maintained at the Project site for
at least one year after the completion of the Project.
PIU Project Management Capability: The PIU would have full responsibility for administrative,
financial, and procurement aspects of Project management. The unit charged with Project preparation
would form the nucleus of the PIU. This unit has been reviewed and considered to be adequately staffed
and trained to implement the financial and procurement responsibilities of the project. In addition to the
present staff, four key professional positions have been filled. These positions are: (a) Planning, (b)
Accounting, (c) Procurement, and (d) Legal. The Planning Officer would also carry out the functions of the
PIU Monitoring Officer for the first few months of implementation.
- 55 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
- 56 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB            N8B            Other N2B.F.                Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00           0.00           0.02           0.00           0.02
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.01)         (0.00)         (0.0 1)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.30           0.03           0.00            0.33
(0.00)         (0.20)         (0.02)         (0.00)         (0.22)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00           2.18           0.00            2.18
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.81)         (0.00)         (1.81)
4. Research & Extension              0.00           0.00           9.08           0.00            9.08
Grants
(0.00)         (0.00)         (6.30)         (0.00)         (6.30)
S. Front-end fee                     0.00           0.00           0.10           0.00            0.10
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.10)         (0.00)         (0.10)
6. Recurrent Costs                   0.00           0.00           2.11           0.00            2.11
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.16)         (0.00)         (1.16)
Total                             0.00           0.30           13.52          0.00           13.82
(0.00)         (0.20)         (9.40)         (0.00)         (9.60)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes goods, training services, grants and other operational costs to be procured through national
shopping; services of contracted staff of the PIU to be procured through direct contracting; and consultant
services to be procured using Bank consultant contracting procedures.
- 57 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                      < 200,000               Shopping                  None
2. Goods                      >50,000                   NCB             First contract (US$ 0.08)
<50,000                Shopping         First contract each calendar
year
3. Services              Individual Consultants    According to Section V of  All Contracts (US$ 0.20)
> 50,000          Consultant Guidelines
Individual Consultants    According to Section V of    None
< 50,000          Consultant Guidelines
Firns > 100,000          Fixed Budget            All (US$.25)
Firms < 100,000     Consultant Qualifications       None
and Sole Source
4. Miscellaneous         Other Operating Costs        Shopping                  None
5. Research & Extension         NA                      NA                      None
Grants
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$ 0.53 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 18 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement procedures under competitive grants will follow commercial practices which would include
price comparisons from three qualified suppliers, whenever possible. This will be specified in the
Operational Manual.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 58 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Elcet~cU*# Categowy -- -    :POURt in us                 Fitancing Percontage
A. Civil Works                             0.01                   50 % expenditures.
B. Goods                                   0.20                  67 % of expenditures
C. Services                                1.63                  83 % of expenditures
D. Grants                                  5.67          100% of amount disbursed under a grant
E. Recurrent Costs                         1.04           60 % of expenditures up to $500,000,
55% of expenditures up to $900,000,
and 50% of the remainder.
F. Unallocated                             0.95
Total Project Costs                        9.50
Front-end fee         0.10
Total                                      9.60
- 59 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
Project $c h ^ .                                  > 7; edu%e  P; + . l zt an om  ^ Xg R tuz  4 2 57ned  XAc 0 i l
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  12                        12
First Bank mission (identification)       05/25/98                    05/25/98
Appraisal mission departure               06/14/99                    06/20/99
Negotiations                              09/20/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness             01/01/99                    01/01/99
Prepared by:
Ministry of Agriculture
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Matthew A. McMahon                 Task Manager
Gary Alex                          RDV, Institutional Specialist
Derek Byerlee                      RDV, Principal Agricultural Economist
Dina Umali-Deininger               Agricultural Economist - Peer Reviewer
Peter Gregory                      Research Advisor - Peer Reviewer
Marta Molares-Halberg              Lawyer
Pascale De Boeck                   Lawyer
Efrain Jimenez                     Procurement
Carmen Nielsen                     Procurement
Cecilia Balchun                    Disbursements
Pierre Werbrouck                   Sector Leader
Livio Pino                         Project Financial Management
- 60 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
A. Project Implementation Plan
Carta de Politicas en Relacion a El Programa de Desarrollo para la Innovacion Tecnologica y la
Competitivdad en la Agricultura, Government of Peru.
Estrategia para la Innovacion Tecnologica y la Competitividad en la Agricultura Peruana (7/99), Ministry
of Agriculture.
Manual Operativo--Proyecto de Innovacion Tecnologica Agraria (draft--7/99), PIIEA Project Preparation
Team.
Project Description---Proyecto de Innovacion Tecnologica Agraria (draft--7/99), PIIEA Project Preparation
Team.
Project Implementation Plan--Proyecto de Innovacion Tecnologica Agraria (7/8/99), PIIEA Project
Preparation Team.
Project Procurement Plan--Proyecto de Innovacion Tecnologica Agraria (7/8/99), PIIEA Project
Preparation Team.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Alex, Gary. 1999. "Institutional Development Component for the Peru Agricultural Research, Extension,
and Information Project". (Notes from Pre-Appraisal Mission 2/20/99 to 3/13/99).
Byerlee, Derek. 1999. "Peru PIIEA Project: Interim Visit, May 10th, 1999.
McMahon, M., I. Marzall, P. Accatino, and J. Wooley. 1995. "A Modem Agricultural Research and
Extension System in Peru: A Proposal". (Mission Report).
World Bank. 1992. "Peru: Agricultural Policies for Economic Efficiency".
World Bank. 1992. Project Completion Report: Peru Agricultural Research and Extension Project (PE
2150-PE).
World Bank. 1998. "Peru: Indigenous Peoples' Development: Background, Policies and Program Strategy.
World Bank. 1998. "Peru: Proyecto de Investigacion y Asistencia Tecnica Agropecuaria: Ayuda Memoria
--- Mision de Preparacion" 5/25 to 6/5/1998.
World Bank. 1998. "Peru: Proyecto de Investigacion y Extension Agropecuaria: Ayuda Memoria ---
Mision de Preparacion" 11/30 to 12/17/1998.
World Bank. 1998. "Peru: An Agricultural Development Strategy (Green Cover Draft)", dated 3/5/98.
World Bank. 1999. "Peru: Proyecto de Investigacion y Asistencia Tecnica Agropecuaria: Ayuda Memoria
--- Mision de Preevaluacion" 2/21 to 3/12/1999.
World Bank. 1999. "Peru: Proyecto de Innovacion Tecnologica Agraria: Ayuda Memoria --- Mision de
Evaluacion" 6/21 to 7/8/1999.
World Bank. 1999. "Poverty and Social Developments in Peru, 1994-1997".
-61 -



C. Other
Agreda, Victor. 1997. "La Viabilidad de la Pequena Produccion Agropecuaria en las Actuales Condiciones
de Mercado" In Sepia VII--Potencias Centrales (8/97), pp. 71-97. Huancayo.
Agreda, V. 1999. Estudio sobre el Analysis Social del F'royecto "Peru Agricultural Information, Research,
and Extension". (7/1/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Agreda, V. and A. Granda. 1999. Analysis Social de los Potentiales Usarios del PIIEA en el Valle de
Chincha. (5/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Agreda, V. and E. Ventura. 1999. Analysis Social de la Zona del Valle del Mantaro. (6/99). PIIEA Project
Preparation Team.
Agreda, V., E. Sculupe, and A. Angulo. 1999. Analysis Social de la Zona de San Martin. (6/99). PIIEA
Project Preparation Team.
Alarcon, J. 1999. Proyecciones de la Produccion, Precios, y Gravemenes, Como Resultado de Cambios en
los Excedentes del Productor. (3/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Benevides, M. 1999. Aportes Teoricos y Empiricos para el Diseno del Proyecto para la Informacion
Investigacion y Extension Agraria. (6/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Berdegue, Julio and Cristian Marchant. 1999. "Servicios de Transferencia de Tecnologia para pequenos
Agricultures en Chile." (Paper presented at an International Workshop in Lima March 11-13, 1999). PIIEA
Project Preparation Team.
Chang-Navarro, Lorenzo. 1995. "Una Nueva estrategia para Elevar el Nivel Tecnologico de la produccion
y Commercializacion como Contribucion al Desarrollo Rural de la Sierra Peruana".
Del Rio, B., E. Acuna, and E. Garcia. 1999. Estudios de Caso de los Sistemas de Investigacion y Extension
Agraria en Valles y Zonas Representativas de la Costa, Sierra y Selva del Peru: El Caso del Valle de
Chincha.(6/16/99). PIIEA Team, MOA.
Echeverria, R. 1990. "Assessing the Impact of Agricultural Research." In Methods for Diagnosing
Research System Constraints and Assessing the Impact of Agricultural Research: Volume II Assessing the
Impact of Agricultural Research." Proceedings of a Workshop July 6-8, 1988 at Rutgers University. The
Hague: ISNAR.
Falconi, Cesar. 1999. "Emprendimientos Conjuntos del Sector Publico y Privado en la Investigacion
Agricola: Casos de America Latina y el Caribe." (Paper presented at an International Workshop in Lima
March 11-13, 1999). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Fano, H. and R. Cornejo. 1999. Estudios de Impacto Economico de la Inversion en Investigacion y
Extension Agropecuaria Realizadas en el Peru. (4/14/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Fano, H., R. Cornejo, E. Garcia, and M. Torres. 1999. Evaluacion de los Programmas de Investigacion del
INIA. (3/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Fano, H., R. Frisancho, R. Hermoza, and B. Del Rio. 1999. Informe de los Estudios de Caso Resultados
Preliminares--Documento de Trabajo. (5/26/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Frisancho, R., A. Castillo, and A. Aragon 1999. Estudios de Caso de los Sistemas de Investigacion y
Extension Agraria en Valles y Zonas Representativas de la Costa, Sierra y Selva del Peru: El Caso de los
Valles del Mantaro y Tulumayo.(6/16/99). PIIEA Team, MOA.
Ganoza, V., G. Norton, C. Pomareda, R. Evenson, E. Walters. 1990. "Evaluating Agricultural Research
-62 -



and Extension in Peru." In Methods for Diagnosing Research System Constraints and Assessing the Impact
of Agricultural Research: Volume II Assessing the Impact of Agricultural Research." Proceedings of a
Workshop July 6-8, 1988 at Rutgers University. The Hague: ISNAR.
Ginocchio, L. 1999. El Rol de las Empresas Proveedoras de Servicios Agropecuarios en la Reactivacion
del Sector Agropecuario Peruano. (5/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Haudry de Soucey, R. 1999. "Peru: Experiencias en el Desarrollo del Mercado de Asistencia Tecnica
Rural." (Paper presented at an International Workshop in Lima March 11-13, 1999). PIIEA Project
Preparation Team.
Heredia, J. 1998. Productores de pequena escala y desarrollo de un mercado de informacion agraria en el
Peru. (10/98). PROAPA, Fundacion Friedrich Ebert.
Heredia, J., N. Larrea, and A. Hauft. 1999. Impactos de las politicas de investigacion y extension
agropecuarias sobre procesos de innovacion en casos seleccionados del Peru: Avance do Resultados.
PROAPA, GTZ.
Hermoza, R., J. Burga, S. Torres, E. Sucuple, and A. Arevalo. 1999. Estudios de Caso de TARAPOTO
(5/99). PIIEA Team, MOA.
Hermoza, R., J. Burga, and S. Torres. 1999. Estudios de Caso de los Sistemas de Investigacion y
Extension Agraria en Valles y Zonas Representativas de la Costa, Sierra y Selva del Peru: El Caso de los
Valles del Alto Mayo y Huallaga Central.(6/16/99). PIIEA Team, MOA.
INIA. 1998. Resumen Operativo: Plan Operativo 1998.
ISNAR/CIP/COFIDE Mission. 1996. "Propuesta de un Sistema Tecnologico Agrario para el Peru".
Larrea,Nelson. 1999. "Analisis de Casos Exitosos". PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Malpartida, E. and 0. Loli. 1999. Evaluacion del Impacto Ambiental de los Proyectos del PIIEA: Informe
Final, Partes I y II. (7/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Manrique, K. 1999a. Marco Regulatorio para el Sector Privado en Aspects de Sanidad y Bioseguridad,
Semillas y Propriedad Intelectual. (5/26/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Manrique, K. 1999b. Descripcion y Diagnostico Institucional del Actual Sistema de Investigacion Agraria.
(6/1/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Manrique, Kurt. 1999. "Programa de Fomento a Servicios Estrategicos de la Agricultural--PROFOSE".
PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Ministerio de Economia, Chile. 1998. "Evaluacion de Instrumentos de Fomento Productivo: Programa de
Transferencia Tecnologica del Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario."
Ministry of Agriculture, Peru. 1998. "Proyecto de Fomento de la Transferencia de Tecnologia a las
Communidades Campesinas de la Sierra (FEAS): Informe de Avance Trimestral (Octubre-Dicienbre,
1997).
Ministry of Agriculture, Peru. 1998. "Proyecto de Fomento de la Transferencia de Tecnologia a las
Communidades Campesinas de la Sierra (FEAS): Plan de Operaciones 1997.
Ministry of Agriculture, Peru. 1999. "Estrategia para la Innovacion Tecnologica y la Competitividada en la
Agricultura Peruana". (draft dated, 6/6/99).
Paz Silva, Luis. 1986. "Peru and the CGIAR Centers: A Study of their Collaboration in Agricultural
-63 -



Research".
PIIEA Preparation Team. 1999. "Minuta: Taller Regional de Cajamarca". (1/25-26/99) PIIEA Project
Preparation Team.
PIIEA Preparation Team. 1999. "Minutas de la Reunion: Taller tecnologia para el desarrollo del Sector
Agraria--Chiclayo". (2/1-2/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
PIIEA Preparation Team. 1999. "Taller Regional de Arequipa". PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Pomereda, Carlos. 1999. "Informacion para la Innovacion Tecnologica y la Competitvidad en la
Agricultura." (Paper presented at an International Workshop in Lima March 11-13, 1999). PIIEA Project
Preparation Team.
Risi, J. 1999. Analysis de la Extension Agraria en el Peru. (5/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
SENASA. 1998. "Listado de Plaguicidas Agricolas Registrados (SENASA)." Decreto Supremo No.
15-95-AG y Resolucion Ministerial No. 0268-96-AG. Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Agraria, Ministry of
Agriculture. (with up-dates).
Schady, N. 1999. "Picking the Poor: Indicators for Geographic Targeting in Peru". World Bank.
Torres, M. 1999. Tecnologias e Investigaciones Desarrolladas por el INIA --1990 a 1997. (6/16/99).
PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Torres, M. and H. Fano. 1999. Tecnologias Desarrolladas por el INIA en el Transcurso de los Ultimas 11
Anos. (5/24/99). PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Valencia, Mirelle. 1999. "Programa nacional de Transferencia de Tecnologia Agropecuaria:
PRONATTA". (Paper presented at an International Workshop in Lima March 11-13, 1999). PIIEA Project
Preparation Team.
Villon, Augusto. 1998. "Informe Sobre el Sistema Actual de Informacion en la Oficina de Informacio
Agraria del Ministerio de Agicultura". PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
Villon, Augusto. 1999. "Analisis Institucional de la OIA". PIIEA Project Preparation Team.
*Including electronic files
-64 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project 10     FY   Borrower                    Purpose                               IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 71
PE-PE-390B6    1999 GOP                         URBAN PROPERTY RIGHT                   38.00       0 00        0.00      35.03      9.16      0.00
PE-PE-65596    1999 MINISTRY OF FINANCE         FIN SECTR.ADJ.LN II                   300.00       0.00        0.00     122.00   -178.00      0.00
PE-PE-54687    1998 GOVERNMENT OF PERU          EL NINO EMERGENCY LN                  150.00       0.00        0.00     118.23     58.23      2.00
PE-PE-40125    1997 GOVERNMENT OF PERU          FONCODESII                            150.00       0.00        0.00      65.80     80.80      0.00
PE-PE-42442    1997 GOVERNMENT OF PERU          SIERRA NATURAL RES.                    51.00       0.00        0.00      27.62     -1.36      0.00
PE-PE-8037     1997 GOVERNMENT OF PERU          IRRIG. REHAB                           85.00       0.00        0.00      62.67     24.48     -2.82
PE-PE-37047    1998 REPUBLIC OF PERU            RURAL ROS. REHAB & M                   90.00       0.00        0.00      17.62     15.52      0.00
PE-PE-8051     1995 SEDAPAL                     LIMAWAT.PRIVZN                        150.00       0.00        0.00      64.21     55.61      0.00
PE-PE-8055     1995 GOVERNMENT                  PRIM.EDUC                             146.40       000         0.00      76.89     76.89     -2.26
PE-PE-8045     1994 GOVERNMENT                  TRANSP.RHB                            150.00       0.00        0.00      13.75     12.72      0.00
Total:   1,310.40       0.00       0.00      603.82    134.05    -3.08
Acdive        Closed
Projects       Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       730.11        2,975.35       3,705.46
of which has been repaid:        0.00        1,240.64       1,240.64
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    1,344.40         1,734.70       3,079.10
Amount sold:         0.00           18.31          18.31
of which repaid:        0.00          18.31          18.31
Total Undisbursed:       603.82           0.00         603.82
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-65 -



PERU
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1979/83/90/93     Buenaventura                    0.00    0.00    1.69    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.69    0.00
1982/92/95        Wiese Leasing                   7.27    0.00    1.43    5.71    7.27    0.00     1.43    5.71
1984              Minera Regina                   1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94           Yanacocha                       2.40    0.00    0.33    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.33    0.00
1993/96           Quellaveco                      0.00   11.52    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.30    0.00    0.00
1994              Banco Credito                   3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Peru Prvtzn Fund                0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    13.89    0.00
1994              PPF Cayman                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96           AFP Horizonte                   0.00    0.00    0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23    0.00
1997              Interbank-Peru                 20.00    0.00    0.00  100.00   20.00    0.00     0.00   97.98
1998              agroguayabito                   7.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    5.50    0.00      1.00    0.00
1998              Latino Leasing                 10.00    0.00    2.50    0.00   10.00    0.00     2.50    0.00
1998              Paramonga                      22.00    0.00    0.00   23.00   14.18    0.00    0.00   14.82
Total Portfolio:       74.02   11.52   27.18  128.71   64.70   10.30   21.07  118.51
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
- 66 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
Latin    Lower-                                         9199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America   middle        mi. -ddl
Peru   & Carib.   income       Development diamond'
1998
PonulatJon. mrd-vear (millions)                         24.8        S02       909                   Life expectancy
rPNP ner canita (Atlas method. t$SSI                   2.480      3 944n     1 710
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                        E11       1.978      1 557
Averaae annual arowth. 1992-9.
Pootutation %l)                                          1.7        1.6        1.1
Labor force (%6                                           2 7       2.3        1 5     GNP                                Gross
Most recent esUtiate (latest vear available. 1992-981                                  capite                           primanllrnt
Povertv (%6 of oooulation below national oovertv /ine)    49
Urban DoDulation (% of total Doo4/lationr                 72         75        58
i if eaxnrctrnew at hirh (veats) l,r                                 70         i                         1
Infant mortality (Der 1.000 live births)                  40         32        38
Child matnutrition (ff of children under 5/                8          a                           Access to safe water
Access to safe water f% of oooulst/on)                    66         75        75
Illiteratc t% of ooou/ation aae 15+)                      11         13        14
Grossorimarvenrollment t% ofsc0hooI-aaeODoulation)       123        113       103               Peru.
Mate                                                   125                  105               Lower-middle-income group
FemAle 121                                                                 1 00
K(EY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios
GOP (US$ billions)                             14.2     23.9       63.8       62.9
Gtoss domestic investment/GDP                  19.2     21.5       24.6       24 6
Exoorts of aoods and services/GDP              15.9     11 0       12.8       120                      Trade
Gross domestit savinos/GDP                     12.4     19.7       20.8       19.8
G.ross national savinos/GDP                       .                19.4       18 6
Current account balance/GDP                    -6 5      .8 3       -5.3      -.8.0
Interest yavments/GDP                           2 9       08        1.6        18      Domestic                      Investment
Tofal debt/GDP                                 64 4     73.1       47.3       51.5      Savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                     53.0      13 3      31.1       27.3
Presennt value of deaht/GOrP                                       43 A
Present value of debt/eoxorts                                     294.9
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-D3
(averaoe annual Orowthl
Grip                                   1 7      'A9      7 2        n 7        f7                Peru
GNP net canita                        -0.8      2 6       5.4      -3.0        3 7               Lower-middle-income group
Pxoorts of ooods and services          0 5      7.0      13.0       2 4        7 9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDPI                                                                             40
Anriciltitre                                   15 7      1n 3       6 9        71
Industrv                                       34.6     33.4       36.4       36.7     2-
Manufacturino                                20.8      23.4       22.9      22.0     20.       _
Services                                       49.7      56.3      56.7       56.3      o
Private consumotion                            73.5     70.3       67.5       68.1    .10      93   94   95   96   97   98
General oovernment consumotion                 14.1     10.0       11.7       12.1               -     GDI    ---GDP
Imoorts of ooods and services                  22.7      12.7      16.6       16.7
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(averao7e annuat orow/hI
Aariculture                                     1.9       3.5       3.7        3.6     30
tndustrv                                       19        4 4       9 n        1 s     20-
Manufacturino                                  1.2      3.1        6.0      -3.0
Services                                        1.4       3.5       6.6       -0.9    10
Private consjmntinn                            1 7       2 6       41        -n 2      o
General aovernment consumotion                  1.6       2.6       4.6        2.4            93   94      9     s     97 
Gross domestic investment                       0.8       8.3      12.7       -0.1   -'
ImDorts of ooods and services                  -0.7      10.0      11 3       -0.1              -     Expors    -    ltmports
Gross national Droduct                          1.6       4.4       7.3       -1.2
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averafe. If data are missinD. the diamond will
hp incomnlete
- 67 -



Peru
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1977      1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                              80
Consumer prices                                 31.2     85.8        6.5        7.0       2      6
Implicit GDP deflator                           35.7     83.9        8.4        5.4     4T
Government finance                                                                      20
(% of GOP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                    ..      9.2      14.1       13.8             93    94    95    95    97    98
Current budget balance                            ..    -4.7         2.2        2.9                    GOP deflator    eCPI
Overall surplusideficit                           ..    -7.9        -0.7       -0.8
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977      1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions}
Total exports (fob)                                ..   2,715      6,813     5,723      s,   .
Copper                                           ..     562       1,096      391
Fishmeal                                        ..      223       1,031      777      6000
Manufactures                                    ..      726       2,121     2,032      . .
Total imports (cif)                                     3,215      8,552     8,199
Food                                            .. 438   1,302   1,315   3 0E                         li
Fuel and energy                                 ..      237        780       579
Capital goods                                   ..      987       3,011     2,760        o                      aI
92   92   94   95   96   97   99
Exoort Drice index (1995=t100                     ..       76        101        86
ImDort orice index t1995=1001                     ..       72        101        98               SExports        Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100                                 1ins        1in        RR
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
lUS$ millions)                                 1977      1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%I
Exports of goods and services                  2,131    3.508      8,354     7,531      0t
Imports of goods and services                  2,687    4,379     10,840    10,530
Resource balance                                -556     -871      -2,486    -2,999     -2i
Net income                                      -423   -1,221      -1.407    -1,454
Net current transfers                              .        ..       485       665      -4
Current account balance                         -926   -1,974      -3,408    -3,788
Financing items (net)                           971       826      4,401     2,785
Changes in net reserves                          -46    1,148       -993     1,003      .8 -
Memo:
Reserves includinao old (USS millions)           398    1.159     11.254     9.971
Conversion rate (DEC. Iocal/USSJ             8.38E-8  3.00E-5         2.7       2.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
fUSS millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           9,171    17,485    30,496    32,419
IBRD                                          171    1,214       1,920     2,128                           A: 2.128
IDA                                              0        0          0         0             G: 7.450            C 905
Total debt service                             1,136      481      2,936     2,452                     _:2.520
IBRD                                           22        50        182       184
IDA                                              0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 19       94        222
Official creditors                            586       292        963    -1,323
Private creditors                              17        79        373     1,772                                      E: 11.486
Foreign direct investment                      54        32      2,005     1,968           F: 7.93
Portfolio equity                                 0        0        348      -369
World Bank program
Commitments                        ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~60  0  507     38     16- IDA     D - Other multilateral   F - Private |
Commitments                                    6          0        57         38      A - IBRD                      E6- Bilateral
Disbursements                                  33        63        490       271      C- IMF                         G - Short-term
Principal repayments                           10        31         65        64       -                              -
Net flows                                      23        32        425       207
Interest payments                              13        19        117       120
Net transfers                                   10       13        308        87
Development Economics                                                                                                        9/8/99
-68 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Letter of Sector Policy from the Government of Peru
CARTA PRESENTADA POR EL GOBIERNO DEL PERU (GOP) AL BANCO
MUNDIAL
en relaci6n a
EL PROGRAMA DE DESARROLLO PARA LA INNOVACION
TECNOLOGICA
Y LA COMPETITIVIDAD EN LA AGRICULTURA
1. Antecedentes
El Gobiemo del Peru viene desplegando un gran esfuerzo para generar condiciones de
entorno favorables para la inversi6O privada en la agricultura, para resolver problemas
estructurales en el medio rural y para aliviar la pobreza. Estas acciones se dan a partir
del reconocimiento del rol cstrategico de la agricultura
La estabilidad econ6mics, la apertura comercial, la atracci6n de la inversi6n extema y la
eliminacion del terrorismo han dado sus futos. Se observan los logros en el retorno de
los agricultores a sus tienras, en el aumento de las areas sembradas y los rendimientos y
en las inversiones privadas en tierras, agroindustrias e industrias conexas. Es evidente
la tendencia hacia producir mas dc los rubros mas rentables para los mercados internos
y externos.
Los problemas estructurales que condicionan la pobreza rural se relacionan al
minifundio, a la geografia, al clima y a las deficiencias institucionales forjadas a traves
de muchos afios, exponiendo a los agricultores y demas pobladores rurales a elevados
costos de transacci6n. El alivio a la pobreza extrema, profundamente arraigada en las
zonas rurales aisladas y con problemas de degradaci6n ambiental, es objeto de atenci6n
especial. Varios programas del GOP, apoyados con recursos de prestamo y donaciones
de organismos internacionales, ofrecen ayuda a esta poblaci6n, especialmente en el
medio rural. La dificil tarea en este caso es la de aliviar la pobreza a la vez que se crean
candiciones adecuadas para que una proporci6n creciente de la poblaci6n rural se
incorpore con plenitud y ventaja a la economia de mercado. Esta es la mejor forna de
crear condiciones adecuadas para el funcionamiento del mercado, de modo que este
genere los mayores beneficios sociales en forma duradera.
La degradacion de los recursos naturales es un riesgo condicionado por la fragilidad de
los sistemas de producci6n y por la explotaci6n indiscriminada de los mismos,
resultante de las condiciones de extrema pobreza en el medio rural. El GOP viene
adoptando paulatinamente un conjunto de medidas para la conservacion y recuperacibn
de los recursos naturales del agro. La preservaci6n de la biodiversidad, las acciones de
recuperacion y conservaci6n de suelos arables, la aplicacion de norTnas de control y
cuarentenarias para impedir la endemia de plagas y enfermedades, son algunas de las
muchas rnedidas que se estan implernntando. En ese sentido, es necesario poner la
tecnologia productiva a disposici6n de la conservaci6n de los recursos tanto a nivel de la
unidad productiva como a nivel de todo el medio rural.
- 69 -



25/10 '99 LUN 09:52 FAX 4f25fZ13           UrlINA UL NY5J(XiUNb0
2. Consideraciones para la Innovad6n Tecnalogica
El GOP reconoce que la actividad agropecuaria y el sector en su conjunto deben scr mis
competitivos, a traves de una politica de incentivos que mejore las condiciones de la
oferta, de la demanda y de las empresas proveedoras de insumos y servicios de apoyo.
Por el lado de la oferta es importanto fortalecor los factores especializados como la
generaci6n de habilidades especificas que propiciarin ventaias competitivas para el
pais, para el sector, para las regiones y para los productores individuales. Paralclamente,
en un mundo globalizado, debt tomarsw en cutnta que los sectores y actividades mis
competitivas cuentan con una demanda local bastante desarrollada y exigente y con
mercados internacionales alternativos. IJna oferta y demanda fuertes requicren de un
sector de apoyo de insumos y servicios vigoroso e innovador.
El GOP reconoce que la brecha tecnologica ert la agricultura del pats es amplia y que
puede superarse por la via del uso de semillas y reproductores de mayor calidad
gen6tica, el uso de insumaos, maquinaria y equipos y, sobre todo, incrementando el
conocimiento, la capacidad de gesti6n y la organizaci6n de los productores. Se reconoce
tainbien que los productores nacionales requieren hacer innovaciones para incrementar
la productividad y la rentabilidad, de modo de hacerse cada vez mis competitivos en los
mercados internos e internacionales. Aunque se perciben limitaciones de caricter
tccno16gico en el pais, hay muchas experiencias que revelan que productores de
distintos tamnaios de operaci6n, en rubros variados y en diversas condiciones
agroecologicas, han hecho innovaciones tecnolbgicas y estan siendo exitosos. La
orientacion hacia mercados espocificos, la gestidn, la organizaci6n y la construccion de
alianzas, han demostrado ser los factores quo, aunados a la tecnologia, son
deterrninantes del 6xito
Las necesidades son considerables en cuanto al aumento de los rmndimientos y calidad
de los productos, disminucion de los costos de producci6n. mejora de la calidad de los
recursos naturales y generacion de productos de mis valor agregado. El GOP reconoce
la necesidad de fomentar y contribuir a la conservaci6n de los recursos naturales para
que estas necesidades sean alcanzables en el corto plazo. Ademis de las acciones
directas del Estado, debe nornarse el uso de suelos para contener la salinizari6n y la
erosi6n, debe preservarse la biodiversidad y debe regularse el uso de insumos
agroquimicos y otros para no contaminar los suelos, el agua y el medio ambiente.
El GOP reconoce que la gran mnayoria de productores son personas con pocos recursos y
expuestos a riesgos y que a medida que estas condiciones se bacen mas severas,
adquieren cada vez mis importancia los factores sociales. Por lo tanto, la equidad debt
ser considerada dentro de los criterios de competitividad para minimizar los factores de
riesgo impHicitos en un proceso de innovaci6n tecnol6gica.
3. Objetfvos y Estrategia del Programa
El Programa para Fomentar la Innovaci6n Tecnologica y la Competitividad en la
Agricultura del Peri, provee el marco de referencia para el Proyecto de Innovacion
Tecnol6gica Agraria y parte de reconocer que:
* Existen limitaciones en cuanto a las condiciones tecnol6gicas que constituyen
factores criticos quo afectan a los agricultores peruanos;
2
- 70 -



* Existen evidencias de un potencial para bacer irnovaciones que permitan ganar
competitividad y generar efectos multiplicadores; y
* Existen limnitaciones en el papel que ya desompeian los actores privados y
pdblicos en la oferta de servicios a la agricultura, siendo necesario superarias
para participar en forma eficiente en una economia de mercado.
El Objetivo del Programa es el de incromentar la productividad y mejorar la
competitividad del sector agrario, mediante la adopoi6n de tccnologias sostenibles y
ambientalmente seguras, diseminadas por un sistema de innovaci6n tecnol6gica
descentralizado y liderado por l sector privado. El logro de este objetivo se veri
reflejado en los siguientes objetivos intermedios:
* Mas siembras y cosechas de los rubros mas rentables y de menor riesgo;
* Mayores rendirnicatos de los cultivos y crianza y mejor calidad de los
productos;
* Mayoras ingresos para los productores y los trabajadores en la agricultura;
* Unidades productivas y eonpresas con mis y mejores condiciones de
capitalizaci6n;
* Igualdad de oportunidades de acceso a los mercados de bienes y servicios para
todos los productores;
* Mayor empleo rural y rnayor equidad en la distribuci6n de los ingresos en el
agro;
* Recursos naturales mejor ianejados y conservados;
* Mejor capacidad de las instituciones puIblicas, fortalecer la capacidad de
servicio de las organizaciones privadas y gremiales y mayor
complementariedad de las acciones publicas y privadas.
El GOP reconoce que en el logro de estos objetivos interactuaran multiples actores,
muchos de ellos en calidad de emipresas quo proveen insumnos, equipos y servicios. Las
instituciones publicas tendrin un papel primordial en la definicion y administracion de
la normatividad y prover-in servicios estrat6gicos en el campo de la sanidad y en el
control de calidad de los productos e insumos (SENASA), en el uso y conservaci6n de
los recursos naturalos (INRENA), en la obtencidn y provisi6n de informaci6n (OIA), en
la titulaci6n de tierras (PETT), en el manmjo de los recursos naturalcs para el agro y su
conservacion (PRONAMACHS) y en la gcneraci6n y transferencia de tecnologia (INIA
y otros).
La visi6n que se tiene al respecto es de largo plaza, entendiendose asi que estos
objetivos son perrnanentes, dado el papel estrategico quo se le da a la agricultura. Se
define que para alcanzar estos objetivos, en el nivel nacional, se requieron tres
condiciones: La primera es un marco de politicas do incentives para reducir los costos
de transacci6n. La segunda son recursos asignados para poner en prictica cl programa
en forna gradual. La tercora, directamente relacionada a la anterior, se refiere a iniciar
el programa y continuarlo a trav6s del tiempo, a partir de acciones en las regiones que
retnan las condiciones maspropicias.
En relact6n a las poUticas, el GOP continuari la conducci6n de la economia con la
intenci6n explicita de lograr las condiciones de estabilidad macroccon6miica, simplificar
y hacer mis eficiente la administraci6n piblica y estimular la participaci6n del sector
privado y la sociedad civil organizada. En el itnbito mis directamente ligado a la
agricultra, se fortalecera Ia capacidad de las instituciones del sector pan addministrar el
3
- 71 -



marco regulatorio y proveer servicios estrategicos. En este cainpo el Estado apoyara la
agricultura atrayendo inversiones privadas a la producci6n, la industria y la
comercializaci6n, acelerando los procesos de titulaci6n de tierras, expandiendo las areas
irrigadas y mejorando los sistemas de riego. Tambi6n se apoyaran iniciativas para
ampliar los recursos fmancieros con el objetivo de incrementar la disponibilidad de
fondos para inversi6n.
En cuanto a los recursos, el GOP aportarA fondos del presupuesto nacional y harA un
ajuste en la estructUra actual de gasto en el sector pd.blico agropecuario en sus diversas
instituciones, programas y proyectos, pam contribuir en forma mis directa al logro de
los objetivos del Programn, sin descuidar los compsornisos adquiridos para aliviar la
pobreza mmual. Asi mismo, el GOP tiene la intenci6n de adquirir pr6starnos de la banca
multilateral de desarrollo para apoyar el Programs.
4. El Proyecto
Para respaldar el Programa de Fomento de la Innovaci6n Tecnol6gica y la
Competitividad en ia Agricultura, el GOP ha decidido instrumentar el Proyecto de
Innovaci6n Tcenologica Agraria que proveed la orientaci6n tecnica y gerencial y
administrara los recursos que el Estado aporta para ests iniciativa; anticipandose que
estos provondran dcl Tesoro Publico y de endeudamiento COn el Banco Mundial.
4.1 El Objetivo del Proyecto
El objetivo del Proyeeto es el de establecer un sistema agrario de innovacidn
tecnol6gica descentralizado y liderado par el sector privado. El sistemna permitira a los
productores y organizaciones de productores. colaborar con instituciones de
investigaci6n en la reaiizaci6n de proyectos de investigaci6n adaptativa y acceder a
servicios agrarios de un rango muy amplio4 que va desde la pToducci6n a la gesti6n
empresarial y comercializaci6n. Para alcanzar este objetivo general el proyecto tendra
dos objetivos esperificos:
X  Promover  un mercado eficiente de Servicios Bksicos que iuncrementen el
conocimiento, mejoren las capacidades de las personas y que contribuyan
directamente a incremontar la innovaci6n tecnol6gica y la competitividad en la
agricultura. Entre ellos se incluyen: los servicios de investigaci6n orientados a
resolver problemas especificos. los servicios de extensi6n parm propiciar el cambio
tecnol6gico, asistencia cn aspeetos ticuicos y en gesti6n, capacitacidn en varios
aspectos para forjar capacidad competitiva cn diversos aspectos y servicios de
informaci6n sobre oportunidades teenoldgicas, de metcados y negocios.
Apoyar a algunas instituciones para el desarrollo de su capacidad, a fin de que
cumplan en fortna mis efectiva una rcsponsabilidad estrat6gica en la definici6n y
administraci6n del mnarco normativo y que ofrezcan los servicios estrat6gicos
pertinentes a la labor del Estado.
Alcanzar estos objetivos permitiri disponer de una base institucional robusta para una
interaccion fructifera de mdltiples actores privados y pdiblicos comprometdos en la
agricultura. Esa intcraccion seri el fmdamento de uma econornia de tnercado en la que
se han valorado los servicios basicos, se ha creadao una demanda real por dichos
servicios y que se ofertan en forma compeitiva. Tales condiciones contribuiran a un
4
-72 -



mcrcado de servicios de calidad y a precios competitivos al alcance de todos los
productores.
El logro de estos objetivos del Proycoto permitira contribuir en forma directa a los
objetivos del Programa reforido anteriormente. Se anticipa que la interacci6n de
mAltiples actores privados y pliblicos en la prestaci6n de servicios a los agricultores y
la acci6n del Estado en aspectos particulares de su responsabilidad para generar bienes
puiblicas, peTnnitira que la inovaci6n tecnol6gica y la b4squeda de la competitividad
scan vistas y aprociadas como una oportumidad.
Se anticipa tambikn que las acciones del Proyecto contribuirin a aliviar al Estado de la
tarza de ofertar servicios de investigaci6n, extensi6n y asistencia tecnica en forma
gratuita y que pueda mas bien concentrar sus recursos y capacidades en acciones
estrategicas para generar bienes publicos, en los distintos imbitos en que interviene en
la agricultura. En tal sentido, el concepto de fomentar un rmercado de servicios, implica
que se desarrollarin acciones para estimular la oferta y para crear demnanda a partir del
reconocimiento de la necesidad del servicio.
El proyecto se ha concebido para ser ejecutado en un periodo de doce aflos. Al cabo del
cual se tendra evidencia de un Estado realmente normativo, orientador y facilitador de la
relaci6n de actores privados en el mercado de sarvicios basicos para la agricultura y un
conjunto de actores privados y ptiblicos quo se coraplementan en la oferta de dichos
servicios.
4.2 Los Componentes del Proyecto
Los componentes dcl proycto son dos: El primero ca el Fondo de Teenologla Agraria
(FTA), orientado a promover el mercado de sorvicios de apoyo a la producci6n. El
segundo es el Programs para el Fomento de Servikios Estrategicos (PROFOSE),
que permitiri a las instituciones competentes del sector agrario generar proyectos para
el fortalecimiento de su capacidad y desarrollar proyectos para ofertar servicios
estrategicos que generen bienes pdblicos on las Areas de investigaci6n. capacitaci6n e
informaci6n.
El FTA se ha concebido comO un inastumento para fomentar el mercado de servicios en
el cual interactuarin mtiltiples organizaciones, incluyendo empresas privadas, gremios,
ONGs e instituciones pdiblicas quo ofrozoan servicios a los agricultores. El FTA apoyara
organizaciones que ofrezean servicios y que tengan interes de orientarse hacia el
segmento de productores quo reunan las condiciones de elegibilidad identificadas por el
Proyecto.
El FTA hari explicitors los requerimientos de calificaciones de las organizaciones
oferentes de servicios. En lo operativo, el FTA reembolsari a los proveedores de
servicios una parte del costo incurrido en la prestaci6n del servicio, anticipando que la
organizacion oferente cobrarA la otra parte a los productores o conseguiri otros
recursos do emnpresas intercsadas en una relaci6n conercial con los agricultorcs. El pago
del FTA en calidad de reembolso a la organizacion oferonte de servicios se hark sobre la
base de un acuerdo de contrataci6n y previa evaluaci6n de resultados y evidencia de
impacto positivo del servicio prestado.
5
- 73 -



El FTA hart tambimn explucitos lor requeninentos de calificaci6n de los agnicultores
que pueden acceder a los servicios subsidiados, de acuerdo a los criterios del Programa.
Tambien bara explicitos los roqueimientos y hari tuna evaluacion previa de condiciones
en cuanto a solidez del grupo solicitante y calidad del proyecto en el que estin
comprometidos o dosean estarlo.
Con el prop6sito de crear la deianda por servicios y quo los agricultores los valoren
cada vez mas, el FTA ejecutari un programa disefado explicitamente para este
prop6sito. Este se sustentara en divrso numcanismos para la difusi6n y promoci6n de
las experiencias exitosas en la prestacidn y contrataci6n de servicios. En la etapa inicial,
durante los tres primeros afios del proyesto, este covaponente recibira una atenci6n
especial, dado que de ello dcpende que se cree demanda por los servicios.
El PROFOSE se ha conoebido como el brazo del proyecto que dara inicio a un
programa sustantivo de mejora de la capacidad instiucional on el sector agrario. Con
este prop6sito el PROFOSE desarrollari dos actividades:
* Apoyari a las instituciones para definir au estrategia y elaborar su proyecto de
desarrollo institucional. Las instituciones podrin presentar estos proyectos al
Estado y subsecuentemente obtener recursos externos de prestarno ylo donacion
pars su modernizaci6n. Modernr una instituci6n impliea capacitar personal,
sirnplificar proceses administrativos, renovar activos de capital, reestracturar
salanos y todas aquellas actividades que mejoran el funcionamiento de la
instituci6n. El Proyecto no financiari proyectos de desarrollo institucional, por
considerarse que eldo es compotoncia de otas instancias y que exige recursos en
cuantia mucho mayor que los quo el Proyeeto dispondrW.
*  Respaldari proyectos de las instituciones pdblicas, universidades, centros de
investigaci6n y grernios (de preferencia cm forma cooperativa) para ofrecer algunos
servicios que generen bienes pbblicos de utilidad inmediata y de importancia
estrat6gica para apoyar el proceso de innovaci6n tecnol6gica. Tales pueden ser los
proyeetos de infornaci6n sobre disponibilidad de tecnologia y de proveedores de
bienes tecnol6gicos de punta; investigaciones especificas on ireas estrategicas; un
programa de apoyo a las universidades para capacitar en gesti6n agroempresarial o
para incubar emprosas de servicios.
Es de esperarse que siendo parte de un mismo proyocto, el FTA y el PROFOSE
guardarin estrecha coordinaci6n y conplementariedad. Ello se expresari en el
programa del PROFOSE de capacitacidn a los extonsionistas que operan con el FTA, en
el apoyo con Asistencia T6cnica del PROPOSE a los actores que accesan recursos del
FTA en arons quejustifiquen una accion dircmts del Estado o de organizaciones privadas
nacionales o intrnacionales, en of cofinancianiento del PROFOSE de proyectos de
investigaci6n en keas estratgicas quc generen conocirnientos y bieaes pliblicos y que
son orientados por la demanda y en las Conforencias de Planificaci6n organizadas por el
PROFOSE, pars fortalecer a las instituciones que brindan servicios estrategicos y que
scrin dernandados en forma crecionto por los actores del FTA.
El Proyecto tendri un tercer componente que es la Unidad Ejecutora, y que se discute
mks adelante. Esta Unidad constituiiri el nilco bisico de operaciones dcl Proyecto.
Sari alli donde se tomen las decisiones en cuanto a la conduccion del proyacto, asi
como las acciones de Soguimiento y Evaluaci6n.
6
- 74 -



4.3 Organizaci6n
Cousejo Directivo: Es el organo superior de direcci6n del Proyecto y sus finaidades
son: asegurar el mantenimiento de los lineamientos de ostrategia para e desarrollo
tecnol6gico del sector agraro. crear capacidad pam el desarrollo de politicas
tecnologicas y aswsrar a la Alta Direcci6n del Ministerio de Agricultura. El CD
consbri de nueve miembros, los que deberin tener verdadero interes en participar y
ser ciudadanos notables, de reconocida trayectoria y prestigio de los Ambitos
cientifico, empTesarial y productvo, con expenencia en formular politicas
tecnol6gicas. El CD sera nombrado por Resoluci6n Ministerial bajo la presidencia
del Ministro de Agricultura o su representante.
Unidad Ejecutora: El Proyecto sari administrado por una Unidad Ejecutora (IJE)
ubicada en el Ministerio de Agricultura y a cargo de un Director Ejecutivo y un
equipo profesional de excelentes calificaciones y no mayor de doce personas. Se han
iniciado las gestiones para la creaci6n de esta UE con la debida antononria para
administrar los recursos del Proyecto, aunque sujeta a todos los dispositivos legales
pertinentes. La UE tendra responsabilidad plna para la evaluaci6n y calificaci6n de
las solicitudes de apoyo y propuestas de proyectos de servicios estrtgicos y podra
inclusive invitar dichas propuestas en funci6n de su apreciaci6n de necesidades. La
UE contara con un Consejo Ejecutivo que sera la instancia superior con
responsabilidad plena para oriewar la ejecuci6n del Proycoto y la aprobacion de los
desembolsos, previa calificaci6n de la UE.
Seguinmiento y Evaluaci6u. El proyecto tendra un Sistema de Seguimicnto y
Evaluacion (SSE) quo le pernitira monitorear el cumplimiento de metas y el
desempehto general del Proyecto. El SSE sera administrado por una Unidad de
Planificaci6n, Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n (UPSE) ubicada on la Unidad Ejecutora.
Las acciones de  calificaci6n de oferentes y demandantes, certificaci6n del
cumplimiento en la prestacion de servicios como condicion necesaria para los
desemnbolsos de subsidio y las evaluaciones de impacto, seran contratadas a firmas de
reconocida honestidad y prestigio. La UPSE tendra tambimn la responsabilidad de
establecer y mantener actuaizado un Sistema de Informaci6n sobre Oferentes de
Servicios para la Agricultura. A partir de esta informaci6n la UPSE podri invitar a
los mfiltiples actores identificados a pertenecer a una red de cooperaci6n para la
prestaci6n de servicios. Ello le permitira idcntificar en forna transparente a los
competidores y estimularA la cooperaci6n entre ellos.
4.4 Metas del Proyecto
El proyecto se desarrollara en tres fases de tres, cuatro y cinco afos respectivamente,
anticipindose que el logro de metas en cada una de dllas es una condici6n necesaria
para iniciar acciones en la siguiente fase. A continuaci6n se presentan las metas que el
GOP se ha trazado en este proyecto:
En la primera fase se espera
a) Establecer un sistema competitivo y descentralizado de investigaci6n y extensifn en
tres regiones del pais. En csta fase del proyecto, a traves del Fondo de Tecnologia
Agrafia (FTA), se cofinaneiaran 51 proyectos en investigaci6n adaptativa y 123
7
- 75 -



pToyectos en xtensi6n. que se desarrollarin cn respucsta a las demandas de los.
prxjucLores. A trav6s dc esios proycctos 20.000 productorex recibirgn servicios dc
exlensi6n y se fortalcccri a 123 organizaciones de producaores.
h) Desarrollar plants para fort)lcer la capacidad insitucional en el pids y financiar
proycaos compeitivos en programas eslrattgicos de tecnologfa agrria. El proyccw
a traves de su componente de fomento a scrviczos estwaregicos agrarios (PROFOSE)
financiar* prog*anas de capacitaci6n a rtcnicos proveedoros de servicios de
cxtensi6n. prograrnas dc servicios de inforinaci&n y programas esrra egicos de
investigacion nacional. Financiari cl desarrollo de planes cstrat6gicos instirucionales
incluyendo cl del lnsLtuto Nacional de Investigaci6n Agratia (INIA). Tambidn
financiara 16 proy=ctos en invescigaci6n estraidgica y aplicada. 3 proycctos en
capacitaci6n a tecnicos provecdores de sarvicios agrarios y tLs proycctos en
servicios de informaci6n.
En la segunda fase del proyecto se espra:
a) Expandir el siscema dcscentralizado de invesUgaci6n y ext-ensi6n  ra-ria a todo el
pals. El FrA extendera sus accividades y cofinanciad 238 y 494 proyectos en
investigacidn adapSriva y "xwensi6n respcccivamence. Aproximadamente g0.000
producaores parriciparhn y se be eficiarin del programna.
hj Incmmentar su apoyo a   programas estratdgicos de tcenologia agraria  Se
cofinanciaran 20 proyectos en estos temas. El proyccto tamnbien continuari su apoyo
a  ins4iuciones  de  investigacifn  y  axtensi6n  quo  planifiquon  reformas
institucionalcs.
La termam fasw del proycro consolidart un sismrna desceasralizado, pluralista y
cofinanciado de innovacion tecnol6gica Esta fast fortralccr la coordinael6n regional
de los proycctos de investigaci6n adaptativa y cxtensi6n. Los prograrnas csUrAEdgicos
nacionales de investigaci6n generarhn infornaci6n y tecuologlas a ser aplicadas por los
proycctos regionales de investigacion adaptativa y eatensi6n y se cscablccerL una unidad
de rocnologla agraria, en un Miniswio de Agricltura modenizado. Esta unidad sora
rcsponsable de las poifticas y dc la coordinzcidn del financianuoeno de un sistema
agario de innovaci6n recnoldgica que utilizari recursos do los seccores pdblico y
privado. El FrA cofianciari 1.040 proytctos en investigacift adaptativa y extensifn
quo bcneficiardn de manera directa a 115.000 produclores. Se espera que durante el
proyecto 2 1 5.000 productorTs hbvan panicipado de forma dimecta y hayan incremencade
sus ingresos en un promedio de 30% y qua 430,000 productores se hayan beneficiade
indirectanente increnlentando cus ingrcsos en 15% como promndio.
I   ecisxrn Dc Iaas C.ssas Piedra      Dr.  E fF qro
Nll aJtre d- Agsirttura            Miustrd cIEono  y Wi vraas
Lim 25 de Ocmbmc de 1999
- 76 -



LETTER SUBMITTED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF PERU (GOP) TO THE BANK
regarding
THE PROGRAM TO DEVELOP TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION AND
COMPETITIVENESS
IN AGRICULTURE
1.     Background
The Govermment of Peru (GOP) is making great efforts to create favorable conditions for private
investment in agriculture, to resolve structural problems in the rural sector, and to alleviate poverty. These
actions stem from recognition of agriculture's strategic role.
Economic stability, openness to foreign trade, efforts to attract foreign investment, and the elimination of
terrorism have borne fruit. Successes can be seen in the return of farmers to their land, an increase in areas
under crops and in farm yields, and a rise in private investment in land, agroindustry and related industries.
There is a clear upward trend in the production of commodities offering the highest returns in domestic and
foreign markets.
The structural problems underlying rural poverty relate to the system of minifundio (smallholdings),
geography, climate and institutional deficiencies that have persisted over many years, exposing farmers and
other rural dwellers to high transaction costs. Alleviation of extreme poverty, which is deeply rooted in
isolated rural areas and is associated with degradation of the enviromnent, is a focus of particular attention.
A number of GOP programs, supported through loans and grants from international organizations, are
providing assistance to this population group, more particularly in rural areas. The difficulty in this case is
to alleviate poverty while creating the necessary conditions to enable a growing percentage of the rural
population to become fully and profitably integrated into the market economy. This is the best way to
create the proper conditions for the market to function and generate greater social benefits on a sustainable
basis.
Degradation of natural resources is a threat brought about by the fragility of production systems and
indiscriminate exploitation of resources, resulting from the existence of extreme poverty in the countryside.
The GOP is gradually adopting a series of measures designed to conserve and restore natural agricultural
resources. Among the many measures now being implemented are: preservation of biodiversity, actions to
restore and conserve arable soils, and application of inspection and quarantine standards to prevent the
spread of pests and diseases. In this area, it is necessary to harness productive technology to conserve
resources both at the individual farm level and throughout the rural sector.
2.     Considerations regarding Technological Innovation
The GOP recognizes that farming and the entire agricultural sector need to be more competitive, under a
policy of incentives that will improve conditions of supply and demand and of the enterprises providing
inputs and support services. On the supply side it is important to strengthen such factors as the
development of special skills that will provide competitive advantages for the country, for the sector, for the
regions, and for individual producers. At the same time, in a globalized world, the most competitive sectors
and activities must have a local demand that is sufficiently developed and demanding, together with
alternative international markets. A strong supply and demand situation requires a vigorous and innovative
- 77 -



support sector providing inputs and services.
The GOP recognizes that Peruvian agriculture suffers from a wide technology gap but that this can be
overcome by using seeds and breeding animals of higher genetic quality; through the use of inputs,
machinery and equipment; and above all by increasing the levels of knowledge, management skills and
organization among producers. The Government also recognizes that domestic producers need to innovate
in order to raise their productivity and earnings and thereby become ever more competitive on domestic and
international markets. Although technological limitations do apply within the country, there have many
instances in which producers operating on different scales, in different sectors and under varying
agroecological conditions have successfully introduced technological innovations. Orientation to specific
markets, sound management and organization, and the building of alliances have proven to be factors
which, alongside technology, determine success.
A lot needs to be done in terms of increasing yields and quality, lowering production costs, improving the
quality of natural resources, and supplying products with a higher value added. The GOP recognizes the
need to foster and contribute to the conservation of natural resources to ensure that these needs can be met
in the short term. In addition to direct government action, regulations need to be put in place to curb
salinization and erosion, to preserve biodiversity, and to regulate the use of agrochemicals and other inputs
in order not to contaminate the soil, the water and the environment.
The GOP recognizes that the great majority of producers are low-income individuals exposed to
considerable risks and that the more severe conditions become, social factors become more important.
Thus equity needs to be taken into account among the criteria for competitiveness in order to minimize the
risk factors implicit in any process of technological innovation.
3.     Program Objectives and Strategy
The Program to Develop Technological Innovation and Competitiveness in Agriculture provides the
reference framework for the Agricultural Research and Extension Project. It proceeds from a recognition
that:
* There are limits in terms of technological conditions which represent critical factors affecting
Peruvian farmers;
  There is evidence of a potential to introduce innovations that will increase competitiveness and
generate multiplier effects;
*  There are limits in the role that private and public organizations already play in providing
services to agriculture, and these limits need to be overcome to participate efficiently in a
market economy.
The Program's Objective is to increase productivity and improve competitiveness in the agricultural
sector by adopting sustainable and environmentally safe technologies, to be disseminated through a
decentralized, private sector-led system of technological innovation. This overall objective will be reflected
in the following intermediate objectives:
* Increased sowing and harvesting of more profitable and lower-risk crops;
* Increased yields from crops and animals and higher product quality;
* Increased earnings for farmers and farm workers;
* Production units and enterprises with more and better capitalization;
* Equal opportunity access to markets for goods and services for all producers;
- 78 -



* Increased rural employment and greater equity in income distribution in agriculture;
* Better management and conservation of natural resources;
* Increased capacity of public institutions, enhanced service capacity in private and farmer
organizations, and greater complementarity between public and private actions.
The GOP recognizes that attainment of these objectives will involve multiple players, many of them
enterprises supplying inputs, equipment and services. Public institutions will play a fundamental role in
defining and administering the regulatory framework and will provide strategic services in the area of plant
and animal health and monitoring the quality of products and inputs (SENASA), in the use and
conservation of natural resources (INRENA), in collecting and disseminating information (OIA), in land
titling (PETT), in the managing and conservation of natural resources for agriculture (PRONAMACHS),
and in the generation and transfer of technology (INIA and others).
The Government's vision is a long-term one, based on an understanding that these objectives are permanent
in nature, given the strategic role assigned to agriculture. It is recognized that three conditions must be met
if these objectives are to be achieved at the national level: The first is a system of policy incentives to
reduce transaction costs. The second is allocation of resources allowing the program to be implemented
gradually. And the third, directly related to the second, involves program startup and continuation over
time, based on actions in regions offering the most favorable conditions.
As regards policies, the GOP will continue to manage the economy with the explicit goal of achieving
macroeconomic stability, simplifying and streamlining the public administration, and promoting
participation by the private sector and organized civil society. In the area most directly concerned with
agriculture, the Government will strengthen the capacity of sector institutions to administer the regulatory
framework and provide strategic services. In this area the Government will support agriculture by
attracting private investment toward production, processing and marketing, speed up land titling processes,
expand irrigated areas and improve irrigation systems. The Government will also support initiatives to
expand financial resources with a view to increasing the availability of funds for investment.
As regards resources, the GOP will provide funds from the National Budget and will adjust the present
pattern of expenditure in the public agricultural sector among its various institutions, programs and
projects, in order to contribute more directly to realization of the Program objectives, however without
prejudice to its commitments to alleviating rural poverty. The GOP also intends to secure loans from the
multilateral development banks in support of the Program.
4.    The Project
To support the Program to Develop Technological Innovation and Competitiveness in Agriculture, the
GOP has decided to implement the Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Proyecto de Innovacion
Tecnol6gica Agraria) to provide technical and managerial oversight and administer the funds the State will
be contributing toward this initiative. These funds are expected to come from the National Treasury and
from a World Bank loan.
4.1    Project Objective
The Project objective is to establish a decentralized, private sector-led system of technological innovation in
agriculture. This system will enable producers and producer organizations to cooperate with research
institutions in carrying out adaptive research projects and securing access to an extensive range of
agricultural services, from production to business management and marketing. To achieve this overall
- 79 -



objective, the Project will have two specific objectives:
Promote an efficient market in basic services which will enhance the knowledge and improve the
skills of individuals, thereby contributing directly to increased technological innovation and
competitiveness in agriculture. These services will include: research aimed at solving specific
problems, extension services to facilitate technological change, assistance with technical and
managerial issues, training in various topics to enhance competitive skills in various areas, and
information on technological, market and business opportunities.
*      Capacity-building support for certain institutions to enable them to more effectively assume their
strategic responsibility in defining and administering the regulatory framework and to provide
strategic services relating to the role of the State.
Achievement of these objectives will lay a sound institutional base for fruitful interaction among the
multiple players, both private and public, involved in agriculture. This interaction will form the foundation
for a market economy with effective basic services, with a real demand for these services, and with these
services being offered on a competitive basis. These conditions will thus contribute to a market for
high-quality services offered at competitive prices within the reach of every farmer.
The achievement of these Project objectives will contribute directly to the Program objectives referred to
earlier. The interaction of multiple players, both private and public, in providing services to farmers and the
State's actions in special areas in which it is responsible for creating public goods are expected to result in
technological innovation and the search for competitiveness being seen and appreciated as an opportunity.
It is also expected that the actions under the Project will help to relieve the State of the obligation to offer
research, extension and technical assistance services free of charge and enable it to better focus its
resources and capacities on strategic actions generating public goods in the various areas in which it
intervenes in agriculture. In this context, the concept of promoting a market in services will imply the
future development of actions to encourage their supply and create demand resulting from a recognition of
the need for the service in question.
The Project has been designed to be implemented over a twelve-year period. At the end of this period, there
will be evidence of a State that is truly acting to regulate, guide and facilitate the relationships among
private players in the market for basic services for agriculture, and a set of players, both private and
public, complementing one another in offering these services.
4.2    The Project Components
The project has two components: The first is the Agricultural Technology Fund - ATF (Fondo de
Tecnologia Agraria), intended to promote the market for production support services. The second is the
Program for Development of Strategic Services (Prograna para el Fomento de Servicios Estrategicos
- PROFOSE), which will enable the competent agricultural sector institutions to prepare projects to offer
strategic services that will generate public goods in the areas of research, training and information.
The ATF is intended to be an instrument for the promotion of a market in services involving multiple
organizations, including private enterprises, farmer organizations, NGOs, and public institutions offering
services to farmers. The ATF will support organizations offering services and interested in reaching the
segment of producers meeting the eligibility criteria identified by the Project.
- 80 -



The ATF will define the qualifying criteria for organizations offering services. At the operational level, the
ATF will reimburse service providers for part of the cost incurred in providing the service, the organization
in question being expected to charge producers for the remainder or to obtain other funds from enterprises
interested in developing a commercial relationship with the farmers. The ATF payments in respect of
reimbursements to service providers will be based on a contract agreement and will be subject to evaluation
of results and evidence of a positive impact from the service provided.
The ATF will also specify the eligibility requirements for farmers who are to have access to subsidized
services in accordance with Program criteria. It will also specify the requirements and conduct an advance
evaluation of the requesting group and the quality of the project in which they are involved or hope to
become involved.
In order to create a demand for services and ensure that farmers come to appreciate the value of these
services, the ATF will implement a program specifically designed for this purpose. This program will be
supported by various mechanisms for the dissemination and promotion of success stories in the provision
and contracting of services. This component will receive particular attention in the initial phase, during the
first three years of the project, as it will be the basis for creating demand for services.
PROFOSE has been designed as the project arm that will initiate a substantive program to improve
institutional capacity in the agricultural sector. To this end, PROFOSE will carry out two activities:
*      It will assist institutions in defining their strategies and drafting their institutional development
plans. The institutions will be able to present these plans to the Government and subsequently
receive external loan funds and/or grants for their modernization. Modernizing an institution
implies training staff, simplifying administrative procedures, renewing capital assets, restructuring
salary scales and all the other activities that will improve how the institution operates. The Project
will not finance institutional development projects, as these are deemed to fall within the
responsibility of other organizations, and also because such projects require funds greatly in excess
of what the Project will have available.
It will support projects by public institutions, universities, research centers and unions (preferably
of a cooperative nature) offering certain services that will generate public goods of immediate
applicability and of strategic importance in supporting the process of technological innovation.
Examples could be projects for the dissemination of information on the availability of technology
and on suppliers of leading-edge technological goods; specific research in strategic areas; a
program to support universities in providing training in farm management or in incubating service
enterprises.
It is anticipated that, as they are both part of the same project, the ATF and PROFOSE will closely
coordinate and complement each other's activities. This will be reflected in PROFOSE's program to
provide training for the extension workers working together with the ATF; in PROFOSE's technical
assistance support to parties receiving ATF funds in areas justifying direct action by the State or receiving
funds from domestic or international private organizations; in PROFOSE cofmancing of demand-led
research projects in strategic areas generating public knowledge and public goods; and in the Planning
Conferences organized by PROFOSE designed to strengthen institutions providing strategic services which
will be increasingly requested by those involved with the ATF.
The Project will have a third component, namely the Project Implementation Unit, which will be
discussed below. This Unit will be the hub of Project operations. There decisions will be taken on project
- 81 -



implementation and on monitoring and evaluation activities.
4.3    Organization
Board of Directors (Consejo Directivo): This will be primary management body for the Project, and its
objectives will be as follows: ensure that strategic lines for technological development of the
agricultural sector are maintained; create capacity for development of technology policies, and assist the
senior levels of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Board will be made up of nine members, who must be
truly interested in participating and who must be persons of distinction, with recognized experience and
reputation in the scientific, business and production fields, and with experience in formulating
technology policies. The Board will be appointed by Ministerial Decree and will be chaired by the
Minister of Agriculture or his representative.
Project Implementation Unit (Unidad Ejecutora): The Project will be administered by a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) located in the Ministry of Agriculture and headed by an Executive Director
and a team of professionals with excellent qualifications not exceeding twelve in number. Work has
started on setting up this PIU with the necessary autonomy to administer the Project resources, but
nonetheless subject to all the relevant legal provisions. The PIU will have full responsibility to evaluate
and qualify applications for support and strategic service proposals and it may even invite such
proposals in light of its assessment of what is required. The PIU will have an Executive Committee (
Consejo Ejecutivo), which will act as its senior body with full responsibility for guiding implementation
of the Project and approving disbursements after prior examination by the PIU.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The project will have a Monitoring and Evaluation System (MES) which
will enable it to monitor the meeting of targets and general Project performance. The MES will be
administered by a Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) located in the PIU. The
qualification of suppliers and applicants, the certification of completed services as a precondition for
disbursement of subsidies, and impact evaluations will be contracted out to firms of recognized ability
and reputation. The PMEU will also be responsible for establishing and updating an Information
System on Agriculture Service Suppliers. On the basis of this information, the PMEU may invite the
multiple parties identified in this way to join a cooperative service supply network. This will enable it to
identify competitors in a transparent manner and promote cooperation among them.
4.1    Project Goals
The Project will be carried out in three phases, lasting three years, four years and five years respectively.
Completion of the goals set for each of these phases is expected to be a precondition for the start of work
on the next phase. The goals that the GOP has established for the Project are set out below:
Phase one goals:
(a)    Establish a decentralized, competitive research and extension system in three regions. This phase
of the Project, through the Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF), will cofinance 51 adaptive research
projects and 123 extension projects developed in response to farmer demands. These projects will deliver
extension services to 20,000 farmers and strengthen 123 farmer organizations.
(b)    Develop plans for building institutional capacity and finance competitive projects in strategic
agricultural technology programs. Through its PROFOSE component for the promotion of strategic
agricultural services, the Project will finance extension agent training programs, information services
- 82 -



programs, and strategic national research programs. It will finance the development of institutional
strategic plans, including that of the Instituto Nacional de Investigaci6n Agraria (INIA). It will also
finance 16 strategic and applied research projects, three extension agent training projects, and three
information services projects.
Phase two goals:
(a)    Expand the decentralized agricultural research and extension system throughout the country. The
ATF will expand its operations and cofinance 238 adaptive research projects and 494 extension projects.
Approximately 80,000 farmers will participate in and benefit from improved technology.
(b)    Increase support for strategic technology programs. The Project will cofinance 20 projects in this
area. The Project will also continue its assistance to research and extension institutions planning
institutional reforms.
The third phase of the Project will consolidate the decentralized, pluralistic and cofinanced technology
innovation system. This phase will strengthen the regional coordination of adaptive research and extension
projects. Strategic national research programs will generate information and technologies to feed regional
adaptive research and extension projects, and an agricultural technology unit will be established in a
modernized Ministry of Agriculture. This unit will be responsible for policy and coordination of financing
for an agricultural technology system employing a mix of public and private funding. The ATF will
cofinance 1,040 adaptive research and extension projects, directly benefiting 115,000 farmers. Over the
life of the Project, 215,000 direct participants are expected to increase their incomes by an average of 30
percent, with an additional 430,000 indirect participants increasing their incomes by an average of 15
percent.
Is/    Ing. Belisario De las Casas Piedra                /s!    Dr. Efrain Goldenberg Schreiber
Minister of Agriculture                      Minister of Economy and Finance
October 25, 1999
- 83 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Project Implementation Plan
1999                         2000                         2001                          2002
ID  Task Name                                                           02 030Q401   02 03  0401l  02  03  0401Q  020Q3  04Q
I     I FORMATION  OF PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION   UNIT                                   li
2           IIPrepe.rbon 0 TORo a0d orefjnirrNy seleclo   f t1301005           fCI
-3            1 2 Reciec ad  pp ova ofTOR. by WS sd GOP
4    13Drol 01 MriWjjsI D-eane . elofsdr  FlU r-ov  foW
eiview ad co.-eIft
Soard 01 Directos firiWOed
6           1.1 30d0t and ..ork pln preP.atI- and apprana fi0 PlU
7     2 FORMATION  OF REGIONAL PILU OFFICES                                           iiw
a          2 1 Selecth-re reions aad ano        ii,1 phyical fiicdirO
9          2 2 Eroply  t1.1 and obtal 05fi                                                                                                           j
1 0    3 PIU OFERATIONAL  FPLAN
1 1         2.1 G-]ea  P-       -1atre                                               10 
1         1.1 Deelp and pacag  anual -r       ',Itrrr  Plan
wIJ, budget 1f0 .onedlut Serics and gooids
13               3 1.2 Acppana  oera -pla Pi--  eqI,dd
14         3   pecifi  P -o.rmet of GoOds                                                                 4 0A
3 2 1 DOI. b02                                   3    0i01            02      3      0      01     02       3     0      01     02 3N0
TaskName                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~1099              2000                         2001                          2002
i6               3.2.2 Prepar  bid -dii-Sn  and IedrrlkoI
epocAcalans f.r g003010 be prourd
17               3.23 Appr-ia 01 bidAng and -Wouetr procsse  by         -- T-
1a               3.2.4 SPectbo I-ntitOba  tc Sidder                     -           j-                                                                   
10      3 25Biddng perrod
20      3 2.b Eo.1csroa  01 bidi
21      3 2.7dpoa1 A - A &         bSn  y avrrfsed
22      32 8 Si3r   -trOads   pogods
23          1.0 Emelooeett 01 Coe.u1e15
24               3.3 1 AdceloO  ad prpae5101 5
20               3.3.2 Receiv  prypol, and ev tule lnclrdc
71      3.3.4   Evivban  f1 fIraia proposl 1 f be01 pv01lEfd
30      335 Propar cor-ac, and titI
29   -      3.4 T.). Ig PeaearI-                                                    
30               bd3 A0erc- bj -1-                                                                                              .-t,-             -      -                      -1
-84-



1999                       2000                       2001                        2002
113    Task Name                                                   02    Q3    04    QI    02    03    04   0Q            02Q24                0     02    03    0
__1_              3.42App__ ._  ft___r   __gp     ____-     ___                                             I                - d
32         3.0 Monitoring & Reporting
33              3.5.1 Dosign LACI Wfattdy reports, test, andtrain
personneel en theee usee
34              3.0.2 Design MIS, test, orr Olo personnrel in operation
35              3.5.3 Sb*d re  gricultteal procisttNty measure.
30              3.5.4 Prodiucer & tenolqrlgy serioes. macrket baseise -    -     -           
& ftmnd wotdie WI.
37              3.5.0 ProducIanr  tedinology services macrket baseline
& lorpoo srrUe No. 2-
38              3.0.6 O0w spedal etudres & reports - approximately' 0                                                                               
emoneth studies
39      3.5.7 Preparation of rporary Projet Managemnset*                                       *     *            *     *     ,      *
Report
53              3.5.8 P'reparais  fssamrornurrl reprts
s0              3.5.0 Annosisa projct ondt
64              3.5.10 drood Progroo Renorm & Eoekufi-e
07    4 RESEARCH AND EXTENiSION GRANTS PROGRASI(3-                                -     -      -      -                                    
08         4.1 Prepare dowmrentation for WI.l for proposals, trdsrioal 
resi-e aod project coerats                                                                            I
09         4.2 Establthmrent of regionatlos fand imireelonttato of pilo                              41w 
199                        2000                       2001                        2002
ID  Task Names                                                      02030401l  0203 04 010Q2030401  02020Q4
70              4.2.1 Regironl apprmaisa and proposal denooproot- 211
Por rogionJ____
71              4.2.2 Proposal -kesasai  by PIU ood assod of gramts -a.
3 grants                                                        '
72              4.2.3 Prepare and orgn cantract ap-mens,o for pilot                                                                    -
73              4.2.4 lnrpleroenttionfi rplot projects
74         4.3 lmploememlt.t- 01 Coorpelen- Grasts
7s              4.3.1 Regionel fa -nkhbopo
go              4.3.2 C-rpldeterports from regi onal fore welorksops                                                                       .
09      4.3.3 Traossg for Regional S-ta0                                                                                             a
00              43R4 Prepoe collo for proposals
93              4.3.5 Issu Calls for Proposas
97              4.3.6 Program Promotion end Orientation
101              4.3.7 Preparetion of Proposls by Applicant. 
105              4.3.8 Coetrac ReQool Todrnical Roiom Committeess
109              4.3.9 ReroiveProtposale and Screonig bry Regisea1
113              4.3A0.chn)clrmaf Rts,,J-otPrpooaJsby Panes
-85-



1999                      2000                        2001                       2002
ID  Task Name                                                     02  Q3  04  01  02  03~ 0401l  02  Q3  04010 2Q30Q4
117             4.311 PIU Prepares ead Board AWppaaves laolent.
121             4.3.12 Prepare ed5l9o Conrtracts for Approved 
Projects
129    5 INSTr(UTIO5IAL STRENGTHENING (PROFUSE)                                                                                                            _
13    0.1 STRATEGICPROGRAM PLAI                                                             I      I            f4PRF41N                           1      -
'131            5.1.1 DovelopT0Rsforara5e~cpmangstroa ,I                                                                                    iies 
135             5.1.2 Approval ofTORs by Auflrri5es
139             5.1.3 Invite xepro.ooms of interest                                                                                        I
13      5.1.4 Evalaate Stedercal qalifioaflreo & prepareohar
147             5.1.~5 ShodisatedI cotesonts preparatio of proposals
151             5.1.6 Evaluate proposals sd seloct coostAtards
155             5.1.7 Approvaleewdrsiong of contracts bypaaftlrarl
159             5.1.5 Preparestuarostoaggered by 2 weeks each
163             5.1.9 Planninrg eadp,pneparnaaorr worrkshrops
167             5.l.lS0Staggered 3 day workh.rpo .                                                                                                      
1999           j          2000             ___       2001                        2002      __
ID  Task Name                                                     02  03  04 01020Q304 010Q203  04  010Q2  0 3  04
11      5.1.11 Cornpletewoksr.p proceedirgo sd eallrihl
prosearoprioritse
175  5j 2INatT1TUnONA5STRAtEGYfDEVELOPMEi%T                                             F                  n14
176             5.2.1 D.eaep TOR. or farihrotllalstralea
179              5.2.2 Approvalof TOR. by Authorllles 
182              5 2.3 WalS eapreW-.o of inrerest
185              5.2.4 Evalsa,Itedbdal~ qualifiatons o& prepare sho,
188             5.2.5 Sh.rartiaedaaoralant preparstiaoof proposels 
191             5.2.6 EWaatepropaais andoselect caoatoabs
194             5.2.7 Appracal ead ignino of contracts bp .ethrorlOes
197             5.2.8 Pepare otudilos
200              5.2.9 PIceAngl ead ppepara500l orksholrops 
203              5.2.10Wakehlrp.
206              5.2.11 iCaploltarskhokp proooedngad
inollaiooa-l strategies
20    5.3 IMPLEMENT STRATEic PROGRAm                                 -
DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
210              5.3.1 Prepare decenentataionlarcalsafor proposals and    *         T
_ _      prajactoant-ats                                                                     .            .I                        i                _
- 86-



1999                      2000                      2001                      2002        _
ID  Task Name                                                   Q2  Q3 Q4 01  Q2 03 Q  01 020304  a1 Q2 20  04
213             5.3.2  00 e tag for prpsoai_
216             5.3.3 Cotradtedmircal review ad adWoyr paond
221             5.3.4 Receive aid screen SPD proposals
224             5.3.5 Teohnicl reviewofproposalsl
227             5.3.6 PIU reconunendtion for SPI investnert pan _
230             5.3.7 Board of Director approval of SPD inoesfrnent
pfaO
233             5.3.9 Negobations and signing cotracts for SPD
236             5.3.9 lmplrnentafon of SPD proects              -                                        m            m            -             ---
- 87 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
The APL Program approach requires substantial attention to monitoring and evaluation to contribute to
refinements in program design, demonstrate progress and justify subsequent phases of funding, and provide
a basis for measuring impacts over the 12 year implementation period. To meet these needs, monitoring and
evaluation studies would be a key output of the project and the Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(PMEU) would be an influential element of the PIU structure.
PMEU Staffing and Responsibilities: The PMEU would have four professional staff to carry out and
manage Program M&E activities. All should have Masters degrees and relevant experience in their field.
The professional disciplines and responsibilities are:
*  An economist to oversee studies on agricultural productivity, ex ante and ex post analyses of economic
impacts, farm income and market studies, and institutional development and technology program
financing studies.
* An environmental specialist to develop procedures for monitoring environmental impacts at the farm,
community, regional, and national level; to screen project activities for negative environmental impacts
and incorporation of mitigative measures; to plan activities with beneficial environmental impacts; and
to monitor Program activities for environmental impacts.
e A social scientist to oversee studies of the impact of technical programs on different vulnerable groups
(women, indigenous peoples, the poor), to coordinate training and planning to improve equity in
program participation by these groups, and to oversee studies on extension approaches, technology
needs, and producer organization strengthening.
*   A survey specialist with information systems expertise to maintain a database on monitoring indicators
from ATF/SPD projects, to ensure that all ATF/SPD projects contain adequate monitoring and
evaluation plans and that these are carried out, and to organize field surveys and special studies as
required.
Elements of Project M&E Program: The Program M&E plan would include five elements described
below. Key monitoring indicators to be tracked through this process are listed in a following section.
1. The Program Management Information System would be based on reports from ATF/SPD
projects. All project proposals would include baseline data, performance and impact indicators and targets,
and plans for monitoring and evaluation. Project implementing agencies would be responsible for reporting
and the Regional Representatives and the Institutional Strengthening Unit responsible for assuring
compliance with reporting requirements. The PMEU would maintain a consolidated database on project
performance and impact indicators and provide quarterly reports to Program management outlining
progress and problem areas. Regional Representatives and the Institutional Strengthening Unit, following
guidelines from the PMEU, would evaluate ATF project implementation and rate projects at each
semi-annual report. Ratings would be Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Marginal, Unsatisfactory, and
Highly Unsatisfactory. This rating system would serve as a guide to corrective actions necessary.
2. Impact Case Studies would measure program outcomes. A TF Producer Impact Case Studies to
verify program impacts at the farm and community level would consist of baseline and longitudinal studies
to detect changes over time in: production levels, productivity, use of technologies, marketing and
management systems, farm income, attitude towards technologies and technology services, environmental
conditions, and knowledge of appropriate technologies and management practices. A Study ofAgricultural
Technology Services Markets would provide baseline and follow up information on how willing producers
- 88 -



are to pay for technology services and to what extent are they doing so.
3. Special studies would provide guidance on program impacts and ways of improving program
efficiencies and effectiveness. These would include a Study on Measurement of Agricultural Productivity, a
study to develop indicators and methodologies for monitoring environmental impacts of technological
innovation on natural resources, an assessment of participation of women and indigenous peoples, a study
of private sector attitudes and constraints to private sector investments in agricultural technology, and
others.
4. Strategic Program Peer Reviews would assess strategic program development projects with
respect to technical direction of programs, scientific quality, program performance, institutional linkages,
and potential impacts.
5. Annual Program Performance Reviews would assess Program operations, procedures, and
functioning of the PIU. The second Program Performance Review would be a special review to assess
triggers and plans for the phase two project. This review would be undertaken in year three of the Project
by a team of four external consultants (two foreign and two local) over a period of three weeks.
Table 13.A: Program Monitoring Indicators and Targets
Indicator                    Year    Year    Year    Phase I         Phase      Phase      Total
1        2        3       Total        II         III      Progra
m
Program Purpose Level:
National Agricultural Productivity Measure--to be  Tbd*  Tbd*    Tbd*       Tbd*       Tbd*       Tbd*       Tbd*
determined
Farmers Adopting New Technologies (Direct Program    5,000    6,000    9,000  20,000  80,000     115,000    215,000
Participants)
Farmers Adopting New Technologies from Indirect  10,000   12,000   18,000    40,000   160,000    230,000    430,000
Spread and from Information Services
Change in Farm Income of Technology Adopters (%)  30     30       30        30          30         30         30
Land Under Improved Natural Resource Management  6        9       15        30         120        168         318
(000 Ha.).
Level of Activity in Commercial Agricultural   Tbd*     Tbd*     Tbd*      Tbd*        Tbd*       Tbd*       Tbd*
Technology Services--to be determined
Public Funding for Agricultural Research (% increase  -  10       20         20        100         100        100
over 1995)
*Tbd--To Be Determined.
Indicator                    Year    Year    Year    Phase I         Phase      Phase      Total
.           1        2         3       Total        II         III      Progra
m
Development Objective Level:
ATF program established (number of regions)     3         0        0         3          5          0           8
- 89 -



Private sector cofinancing of ATF projects (percent)  10   15        15        15         25          35          35
Producer organizations cofinancing technical services  42  96       174        174        732        1040        1946
Farmers participating in ATF projects           5,000    6,000    9,000      20, 000     80,000     115,000    215,000
Private Agencies Implenmenting ATF Projects      21        48       87         87         244        260         260
Increase in Real Farm Income for Program          -        30       30         30         30          30          30
Participants Adopting New Technologies (%)
Land Under Improved Management of Natural         6        9         15        30         120         168        318
Resources ( 000 Ha.)
Priorities and strategies for strategic technology  5      3         0         8           0           0          8
programs approved
Institutional strategic plans approved            1        1         1         3           3          3           10
Indicator                     Year    Year    Year    Phase I          Phase       Phase      Total
1        2        3        Total        11         III       Progra
m
Output Level:
Program & Policy Coordination Conponent:
PIU Established                                   I        0         0          1          0           0          1
Board of Directors Established with Representation  I      0         0          1          0           0          1
from Indigenous Peoples
Regional Offices Established                      3        0         0         3           5           0          8
Regional Agricultural Technology Fora Established  6        0        0          6          10          0          16
Registry Established with Information on Potential  I      0         0          1          0           0          I
Technology Service Providers, Including Information
on Capability to Work with Women and Indigenous
Peoples
Competitive Grants Program Management System      I        0         0          1          0           0          1
Established
Monitoring & Evaluation Studies                   9        8         9         26         20          24          90
Strategic Program Extemal Peer Reviews            0        0         5         5          20          20          45
Project Performance Reviews                       0         1        1         2           4           5          11
Indicator                     Year      Year     Year    Phase I       Phase       Phase      Total
1        2        3        Total        11         III       Progra
m
Output Level:
Agricultural Technology Fund Conponent:
Number of Extension Projects Executed            33        39        51        123        494         680        1297
- 90 -



Number of Participants in Extension Projects     4800      5700     7800      18,300      74,700     104,000     197000
Women Participating in Extension Projects (%)     30        30       30         30          30          30         30
Extension Projects in Indigenous Communities (%)  30        30       30         30          30         30          30
Extension Advisors Contracted Under ATF Projects  45        99       184        184        741         1020       1945
Women ATF Extension Agents (% of all agents)      30        30       30         30          3 0         30         30
ATF Extension Agents with Indigenous Language     15        15        15        15          15          15          15
Capability (% of all agents)
ATF Regional Staff with Indigenous Language       15        15        15        15          25          25         25
Capability (% of all regional staff)
Number of Innovations Introduced in Communities   33        72       123        196        1427        2040       3663
Under ATF Extension Projects
Area Under New Technology from Extension Grants    5        10        18        18          140        394         394
(000 has.)
Extension Projects Rated Satisfactory or Better (%)  65     70        75        75          80          85         80
Extension Projects with Positive Environmental    100      100       100        100         100        100         100
Rating (%)
Cofinancing of Extension Projects Disagregated By:  5       10        15        10          20          30         25
Producers, NGOs, Private Sector, and Universities
Farmer Organizations Strengthened                 33        39        51        106         116        136         1297
Adaptive Research Projects Executed                9        15        27        51          238        360         649
Farmers Participating in Adaptive Research Projects  210   360       690       1040        6810        9200       17,050
Institutions Executing Adaptive Research Projects  8        8         9         25          79          90         90
Adaptive Research Projects with Indigenous        30        30        30        30          30          30          30
Communities (%)
Adaptive Research Projects Rated Satisfactory or  70        75        80        75          95          95         95
Better (%/o)
Adaptive Research Projects with Positive          100       100      100        100         100        100         100
Environmental Rating (%)
Cofinancing of Adaptive Research Projects         35        35        35        35          40          40          40
Disagregated By: Farmers, NGOs, Universities,
Private Sector, and Technical Agencies (%)
Number of ATF Research Project Publications        0        0         9          9          136        360         505
Area Under Technology from Adaptive Research       0        0        225        225        9700       56,000      56,000
Projects (000 has.)
Increased Unit Productivity Demonstrated in Adaptive  30    30        30        30          40          40          40
Research Projects (%)
Increased Income per Unit (ha or animal) in Adaptive  30    30        30        30          40          40          40
Research Projects (%)
New Technologies Tested Under ATF and              0         0        5          5          68          180        253
Recommended for Farmer Adoption (Number)
- 91 -



Institutonal Strengthening Conponent:
Studies on Plans and Priorities for Strategic     2        2         0         4           0           0          4
Technology Programs Completed
Strategic Technology Program Planning Workshops   5        3         0         8           0          0           8
Institutional Strategic Plans Developed           1         I        1         3           3           3          9
Institutional Planning Workshops                  I         1        1         3           3           3          9
SPD Research Projects Executed                    6        4         6         16          16         16          48
Institutions Executing SPD Research Projects      6        4         6         16          16         16          16
SPD Research Projects Rated Satisfactory or Better  0      90       90         90         95          95          95
(o/o)
Publications from SPD Research Projects           0        0         8         8          32          80         120
New Technologies Developed Under SPD Research     0        0         3          3         20          40          63
Projects and Recommended for Farmer Adoption
Strategic Alliances Established Under SPD Research  0      3         3         6           8           8          17
Projects
Cofinancing of SPD Research Projects Disagregated  0       50       50         50         50          50          50
By: Technical Agencies, NGOs, Private Sector, and
Universities (%)
SPD Extension Agent Training Projects             1         1        1         3           5           0          8
SPD Extension Agent Training Programns Rated      0        0         3         3           5           0          8
Satisfactory or Better By External Reviews
Extension Agents Trained in SPD Project-Improved  0        0        600        600       4400        8000       13,000
Training Programs (Short & Long Term)
SPD Agricultural Information Services Projects    I         I        1         3           5           5          13
SPD Agricultural Information Services Projects Rated  0    0         3         3           4           5          12
Satisfactory or Better By External Reviews
Communities Served By SPD Project-Assisted        0        0        60         60         200         600        600
Information Services Programns
Farmers Served By Rural Information Service       0        0       4,000      4,000      48,000     120,000    120,000
Programs
- 92 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Map of Proposed Regions for ATF Program Implementation (draft)
S      > ~~~~'O041 '84
/      _      )               ~~~~~~~~LORETO 8 
-) j    _           fi ~~~S N MA    T.1 
-       , S              f        ~~~~~~BRASIL
_  0            
_         |         \\
0wl_          i         S
__MDR E I
g_    _~~~~~~~
sb_                                     X~~~~~~C
2A.hR U.              _ <                                  1
3    ) ,--                                   -- N-- .,.-vy
3   HUi. l - $- T,CO - A.-II  S-  MCI;- =lCda         s X    E  IIC      W
7  L. U-d . AD-h - C:j-
8 laTbCHILE
-93 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
Summary of Draft Indigenous Peoples Plan
Background: In Peru the majority of farmers have properties of five hectares or less. The indigenous
population makes up a relatively important proportion of these farmers. The indigenous population is
concentrated in the Sierra with important groups in the Amazonia. These populations run a greater risk of
poverty, in comparison with other rural groups since for cultural, linguistic and ethnic reasons they are
often marginalised in the economy. Moreover, many of these groups inhabit fragile ecosystems which
further reduces their capacity to escape from poverty.Therefore, it is necessary that the indigenous
population is included within the objectives of the project.
However, indigenous groups have a rich heritage especially in the area of traditional knowledge in
agriculture, i.e. genetic resources and biodiversity, conservation of natural resources, and risk aversion
strategies. This traditional knowledge is very valid in increasing the productivity of their holdings and needs
to be incorporated into the research and extension activities financed under the project.
Draft Indigenous Peoples Plan: During appraisal a draft Indigenous Peoples Plan was reviewed and the
key elements of its content agreed on with the Borrower. This plan will insure that Indigenous Peoples
demands are adquately met and their participation will be facilitated at all levels of the project. Indicators
have also been developed to monitor progress on the plan (see Annex 13). The results of the monitoring and
evaluation of this component will be available to the public. This Plan will be incorporated into the
Operational Manual whose final approval will be a condition of effectiveness. A summary of the key
components of this plan, as agreed to with the Borrower, is as follows:
?   representation of indigenous peoples interests on the Board of Directors;
-   indigenous groups would be included in the Regional Technology Fora;
i regional representatives would be selected on the basis of criteria which would include relevant knowledge
on indigenous groups;
i   project professionals would be trained in the methodologies for working with, and in the identification of
the needs of indigenous groups;
*   Regional offices would provide training to indigenous groups for the preparation of projects;
*   Indigenous organizations would be included in the Registry of eligible organizations maintained by the PIU;
*   Regional panels would include specialists in indigenous issues; and
*   The project will ensure that language capabilities are adequately incorporated in the project where the
indigenous population is monolingual through the following; (a) regional fora will be conducted in
indigenous language; (b) regional representatives and assistants will have indigenous language capabilities;
and (c) contracting of extension agents with indigenous language capabilities.
- 94 -



78'          76'~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~74-72
ao~~~~~~~~~  is'  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'~~~~~~~~~                        72'                         II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Z 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~"n 
It~~~~~~~~~~P
<                                                                       J~/ 
ueavo~~vLME                       .\                       <I                                      GUITO9t' 1b                                           I
CH/LY           'CJAI
/e7a                        C A                      CR3TT
Huonvobam   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~I                                      (                  u~~RORA  PREGOGRMS EGON
~~t.  2  A-7 9''4  "   -  "                                 H~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-1P             1.L' i.,   - COTHER ALL-WETHRROD
Eayvvar  : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A,-  ~~~~~~5.:.h.-P        Ji -H-  . lc
6'  /        -&~<:  ~    ~             <9      16Ay.O-AAp-i- -LCro                                                                                    - P -'-J RAILROADSi-
Glans!    (~~~~~~~~,  Casvhopoyav('<                                                       4'~~~~~~~S-   -r~  AIRPORTS -   fS16
LAMEAYEOUTf ~~~~~CniornoN%-  0ldendnen  -a                                S  ~~~~8L-.0                POETSl
A NC   y  EnS p H                                             A,,.
ALo'agepVpN.  '2'                        1~~~~~HUNOC                   4"                                   IER
CHITTAY    '  '    /  7       A N                                                                            DEPRTMENT EUHAARIE
Traneet4t"'~.f  SeErs    <~       MARTNUCO
"c.  A.> CJAMARCA,. 0"''                                                                      INTENATIONAL  OUNDARIE
I cl, ~          T 9                        t        -~iO~                              2 
aL~a'.~oonnieeo4  oPASCO
Poveeaayvxt   x  ~ ~      '                                              a""                           PROGRAM REGIONS:
U' iCL;x..'toio4o               ERO2D   P         "---P
CIroa9,                       u/N         '               /                                      2 Trobe - iara- LnaAoSCv
_  -   2   A' Tornaha  \                                                    2. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MACS-Lo  Ic R4'DED 
-42'~~~~~~~~~~~~
TLtlO-~~~c  0rao~~..,.  ~   ~~  ."U'                                   3. Araqoipa  Maquaguc - ToonPUERO
P  A          ~~~IL         I2                                 v_ uoip                                                    L  ieta   ajaono(irA)ON
4"  /  Nv..\tSo..~..)Y..ir:j~  ,~.A'           7                 5 Hodeuna  Pean - Jonia - Huanvavalin
'a S  *          I-      ~      /'                       '\              6 Apacuaho -Apuriinoc - Coma - Pono - ModraIda Dio
N)  orn    ",           ,,       IN                     '7  an  arin  Aeanna   CoomrcoSavo
a   'r~~~            '                       )            0 Lorete  Ucoyali~~~~
:C    E   A~~~4   Evoy 'HANC                            .- 
-    ,T'~~~~~~~a-,I              A-A'    MA 
4-u  i  '  "<"'.XPASCG                N~~~~~~~~' P-UBRAZIL
-          ' PASCO       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.q 
16'                                                                                      -k,_-~~~~~~~~~~~co,.'  PI-6
'CorD                    s'N           '-<A~~~~Y
CtAOI  '   -   ',             -'"                              M DRE         GE 0O
<K  Laa~o  ~>  ~                               '~"      ~      >- I MUERTGUL
P A   C-    I      F     ~~ ~~~I C         ''             PaT>                     Ttm    N               oilovoe                      nT        P..             .Y
HUANC4~~ELICA  c  u'MCsUCGU
tili, 1ktp  ~ bp 9~g, V,t f Tf    n W ro An9"6'UACVJA-TA0[,   araSrs                                                Puleea7
it'                                                       C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AI                                         A AYCUCO   "Ihaharc



