Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4519-PE
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 20, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4519-PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has delivered to the Bank the letter, dated October 25, 
1999, describing the Borrower’s program to increase the productivity and the 
competitiveness of the agricultural sector in Peru (the Program), and has requested 
that the Bank support the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Adaptive Research Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
"Adaptive Research Grant" means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by 
PIU (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Adaptive Research Subproject" means any of the subprojects approved by 
PIU (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth 
in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) and referred to in Part B.2 of the 
Project;
(d)
"ATF" means the financing mechanisms managed by PIU for the provision of 
grants to finance Adaptive Research and Extension Services Subprojects (as hereinafter 
defined), referred to in Part B of the Project;
(e)
"Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors responsible for the 
supervision of the PIU’s (as hereinafter defined) activities, as referred to in 
Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5), set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Extension Agent" means an individual, or a public or private entity with 
legal personality, including universities, governmental research institutes, 
consulting firms, agribusiness firms, and non-governmental organizations, which meets 
the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) 
for providing extension services under Part B.1 of the Project;
(i)
"Extension Services Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Extension Services Grant" means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by 
the PIU (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
(k)
"Extension Services Subproject" means any of the subprojects approved by 
Page  3
PIU (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth 
in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined), and referred to in Part B.1 of the 
Project;
(l)
"MOA" means Ministerio de Agricultura, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Agriculture;
(m)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the benchmarks, for the purpose of 
measuring progress in the implementation of the Project, set forth in the letter from 
the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith;
(n)
"Operational Manual" means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(o)
"Participating Institution" means any entity in the public or the private 
sector which is eligible in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in 
the Operational Manual for the carrying out of a SPD Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined), and which includes commodity associations, traditional campesino community 
organizations (Comunidades Campesinas, Comunidades Nativas, Cooperativas Agrarias de 
Producción, Grupos Campesinos, and Sociedades Agrarias de Interés Social), irrigation 
user groups, cooperatives, research organizations, non-governmental organizations, or 
agribusiness firms;
(p)
"PIU" means the Project implementation unit referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(q)
"Producer Organization" means any producer group in the agricultural 
sector for the benefit of which an Adaptive Research Subproject or an Extension 
Services Subproject under Part B of the Project is to be carried out, and which 
includes commodity associations, traditional campesino community organizations 
(Comunidades Campesinas, Comunidades Nativas, Cooperativas Agrarias de Producción, 
Grupos Campesinos, and Sociedades Agrarias de Interés Social), irrigation user groups, 
cooperatives, and women’s organizations;
(r)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(s)
"Regional Offices" means any of PIU’s three regional offices responsible 
for coordinating at the regional level Adaptive Research Subprojects and Extension 
Services Subprojects;
(t)
"Research Agent" means an individual, or a public or private entity with 
legal personality, including universities, governmental research institutes, 
consulting firms, agribusiness firms, and non-governmental organizations, which meets 
the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for providing adaptive 
research services under Part B.2 of the Project;
(u)
"SPD Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.05 
(c) of this Agreement for SPD Subprojects for strategic program development;
(v)
"SPD Grant" means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by PIU to a 
Participating Institution to finance the carrying out of a SPD Subproject (as 
hereinafter defined);
(w)
"SPD Subproject" means any of the subprojects approved by PIU in 
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and 
referred to in Part C.2 of the Project;
(x)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(y)
"Units" means PIU’s four units referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (i) of 
this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to nine 
million six hundred thousand Dollars ($9,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works, services, grants, and incremental recurrent costs required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
Page  5
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through MOA, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, engineering, environmental and social practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower, through PIU, and by a date eight months after the award of the first 
contract in respect of which prior review is not required in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4, Part C.2 of Sections I and II, respectively, to this 
Agreement, and every twelve months thereafter, shall submit to the Bank a procurement 
audit report, such report to review and describe the processes followed for the award 
of such contracts (chosen on a sample basis) during the period ending on the date on 
which each such report is due and to evaluate whether the obligations of the Borrower 
under paragraph (a) of this Section have been met in respect of the contracts covered 
by such report.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of the 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
within MOA, establish and maintain during the execution of the Project, a 
unit (the PIU) responsible for the coordination, management and implementation of the 
Project, such unit to have:
(i)
a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, including the 
following four sub-units (the Units):
(A)
an agricultural technology fund unit, responsible for 
coordinating at the national level Adaptive Research and 
Extension Subprojects;
(B)
an institutional strengthening unit, responsible for 
coordinating institutional and Program capacity development;
(C)
a planning, monitoring and evaluation unit, responsible for 
carrying out a Project monitoring and evaluation program, 
including a program management information system, case 
studies to measure Project impacts, and annual Project 
performance reviews; and
(D)
an administrative unit, responsible for administrative 
Page  6
matters, including financial management, procurement, legal 
affairs and personnel management; and 
(ii)
key staff with experience and qualifications at all times 
satisfactory to the Bank, in adequate numbers, including a 
director, an accounting officer, a procurement officer, a legal 
officer, the head of the planning, monitoring and evaluation unit, 
the head of the administrative unit, the head of the ATF unit, and 
the head of the institutional unit; 
(b)
consult with the Bank on any substitution of the PIU’s director, referred 
to in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, prior to such substitution; and
(c)
appoint and maintain during the execution of the Project a Board of 
Directors, with membership satisfactory to the Bank, to provide policy guidance to, 
and supervise the activities of, PIU in the coordination, management and 
implementation of the Project, including, inter alia, selecting the PIU’s Director, 
approving the Operational Manual, approving annual work plans and budgets, and 
evaluating PIU’s performance.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory to 
the Bank (the Operational Manual), said manual to include, inter alia:
(a)
the provisions related to the institutional structure, functions, and 
terms of reference of PIU (including its Units and Regional Offices) and the Board of 
Directors;
(b)
the procedures for the financing mechanism for the Subprojects, the 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
(c)
the administrative rules and procedures for planning, preparing, 
proposing, selecting (on a competitive basis, and following a process of peer review), 
contracting, financing, supervising, and carrying out Adaptive Research Subprojects, 
Extension Services Subprojects, and SPD Subprojects;
(d)
eligibility rules and selection procedures for selecting Extension 
Agents, Research Agents, and Participating Institutions;
(e)
a model form for (i) Extension Services Agreement; (ii) Adaptive Research 
Agreement; and (iii) SPD Agreement;
(f)
an indigenous peoples’ action plan setting forth the strategies, 
procedures, activities, and monitoring indicators addressing, in a culturally 
appropriate manner, indigenous peoples’ concerns in the implementation of Parts B and 
C of the Project, including plans for incorporating women and indigenous peoples in 
the planning, preparation and proposal of Adaptive Research Subprojects, Extension 
Services Subprojects, and SPD Subprojects; 
(g)
the environmental criteria for screening and selecting Adaptive Research 
Subprojects, Extension Services Subprojects, and SPD Subprojects, and mandatory 
safeguards and mitigation actions for any such subprojects, which could possibly have 
a negative environmental impact such as in particular, use of any pesticides, increase 
in deforestation, pollution of groundwater, negative impacts on endangered species, 
increase in pesticide in food, increase in soil erosion, parks and protected areas, 
and encroachment on natural habitats; and
(h)
the procedures related to the manufacturing, packaging, labeling, 
handling, storing, and disposal of any pesticides used in the carrying out of 
Agricultural Research and Extension Services Subprojects.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through PIU, shall:
(a)
for the purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, and after 
Page  7
having selected an Extension Services Subproject proposed by a Producer Organization, 
enter into an agreement (the Extension Services Agreement) with an Extension Agent, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual and 
Schedule 5, Section I, to this Agreement; 
(b)
for the purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, and after 
having selected an Adaptive Research Subproject proposed by a Producer Organization, 
enter into an agreement (the Adaptive Research Agreement) with a Research Agent, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Operational Manual and of Schedule 5, 
Section II, to this Agreement; 
(c)
for the purposes of carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, and after 
having selected a SPD Subproject proposed by a Participating Institution, enter into 
an agreement (the SPD Agreement), with a Participating Institution, in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the Operational Manual and of Schedule 5, Section III, to 
this Agreement; and
(d)
exercise its rights under any Extension Service Agreement, Adaptive 
Research Agreement, or SPD Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
any Extension Service Agreement, Adaptive Research Agreement, or SPD Agreement, or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through PIU, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
by no later than September 30, of each year, until completion of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual operating plan for the 
implementation of the Project during the following calendar year, such plan to 
comprise: (i) the main activities to be carried out under the Project during the 
respective year; (ii) the corresponding cost estimates and budgets, including the 
procurement plans and counterpart fund allocations; and (iii) the proposed revisions 
to the Monitoring Indicators, if applicable; 
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about February 28, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by March 31, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through PIU, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  8
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain within PIU a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
Page  9
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Board of Directors shall have been established, its members 
appointed, and their honoraria determined, by a resolution of the Minister of 
Agriculture, to the satisfaction of the Bank;
(b)
the PIU shall have been established by a resolution of the Minister of 
Agriculture, and shall be staffed and operating in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
the indigenous peoples’ action plan referred to in Section 3.04 (f) of 
this Agreement shall have been prepared to the satisfaction of the Bank and 
incorporated in the Operational Manual;
(d)
the Operational Manual shall have been approved by the Bank and adopted 
by a resolution of the Minister of Agriculture;
(e)
standard bidding documents for national competitive bidding procedures 
and an annual procurement plan for the first year of the Project shall have been 
prepared to the satisfaction of the Bank; and
(f)
the financial management system, referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, shall have been established to the satisfaction of the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date January 23, 2001, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Page  10
Jirón Junín 319
Lima 1
Perú
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Carlos Boloña
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works for Part A
   10,000
50%
of the Project
(2)
Goods for Part A
  200,000
67%
of the Project
(3)
Consultants’ services
1,630,000
 
83% 
and Training for Parts A
and C.1 of the Project
(4)
Grants:
(a) for Extension 
2,950,000
100% of the amount
Page  11
Services Subprojects
disbursed under
Extension Services
Grants
(b) for Adaptive 
1,600,000
100% of the amount
Research Subprojects
disbursed under
Adaptive Research
Grants
(c) for SPD Subprojects
1,120,000
100% of the amount
disbursed under
SPD Grants
(5)
Incremental Recurrent
1,040,000
60% until withdrawals
Cost
under this Category have
reached an aggregate
amount equivalent to
$600,000; thereafter
55% until withdrawals
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$900,000; and 50%
thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
  954,000
(7)
Front End Fee
   96,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
9,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Incremental Recurrent Costs" means salaries to be paid to the 
PIU staff, its Units and Regional Offices, fees paid to the members of the Board of 
Directors, office supplies, operation and maintenance of computers, office equipment 
and of vehicles of the PIU, and other incremental costs of the PIU, its Units and 
Regional offices related to the administration of the Project; and
(b)
the term "Training" means the cost of tuition fees, study tours, travel 
and per-diem of trainers and trainees, training materials, rental of facilities and 
equipment, and other costs related to training, including workshops, to be carried out 
under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $250,000 may be made in 
respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
August 31, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods, works and services under contracts in respect of which prior 
review is not required in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4, Part C.2 of 
Sections I and II, to the Agreement; 
(b)
Incremental Operating Costs under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower;
(c)
the cost of Training under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower; and
(d)
the Extension Services Grants, the Adaptive Research Grants and the SPD 
Grants under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Page  12
Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Page  13
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $900,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
Page  14
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $500,000. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to establish a private sector-led, decentralized 
agricultural technology innovation system to increase the adoption of environmentally 
sound technologies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Program and Policy Coordination
1.
Establishment and operation of PIU, its Units, its Regional Offices, and its 
Board of Directors, including staff training, provision of consultant services, supply 
of office and other equipment, staffing, and renovation of offices.
2.
Training of, and technical assistance to, Producer Organizations and Research 
and Extension Agents in the design, preparation, presentation and implementation of 
Extension Service Subprojects and Adaptive Research Subprojects.
Part B:
Agricultural Technology Fund
Establishment and operation of a competitive agricultural technology fund (ATF), 
to finance, on a grant basis, the carrying out of:
1.
Extension Services Subprojects to, inter alia: (a) assist Producer Organizations 
in adopting new crop and livestock production, post-harvest handling, and marketing 
technologies (including technical, managerial, and organizational innovations in the 
agricultural production and marketing system); and (b) strengthen Producer 
Organizations’ capacity to represent and serve their interests and those of their 
members; and
2.
Adaptive Research Subprojects to resolve constraints to small farm productivity 
and income generation.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Carrying out of studies on strategic program planning and priority setting for 
priority technology research areas (such as biotechnology, genetic resources, 
integrated pest management, post-harvest handling and processing, natural resources 
management, and agricultural economics) and for Extension Agents’ training and 
information services.
2.
Provision of SPD Grants to finance, on a grant basis, SPD Subprojects for:
(a)
strategic and applied research to develop technologies and information to 
Page  15
support adaptive research and extension activities; and 
(b)
extension services support programs, including training of extension 
services’ providers and provision of agricultural information services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 2005
400,000
through February 15, 2017
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections I and III of 
Page  16
this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 4 below, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 or less equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Commercial Practices
Goods to be procured by Extension Agents, Research Agents and Participating 
Institutions operating as commercial or private enterprises, in carrying out 
Subprojects under Parts B.1, B.2 and C.2 of the Project, respectively, and estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured in accordance with 
commercial practices acceptable to the Bank, which would include price comparisons 
from three qualified suppliers whenever possible.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part B.1 above, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods to be procured in each 
calendar year in accordance with the procedures referred to in B.2 above, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
Page  17
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II and III of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services of consulting firms under Part A and Part C.1 of the Project, estimated 
to cost $100,000 or more equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consulting firms under Part A and Part C.1 of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Extension Agents, Research Agents and Participating 
Institutions, in carrying out Subprojects under Parts B.1, B.2 and C.2 of the Project, 
respectively, and estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank, which would 
include price comparisons from three qualified consultants whenever possible.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for training activities and technical assistance under Part A.2 and C.1 
of the Project respectively, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000, may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Page  18
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms to 
be procured under Part B.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
Part A:
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set 
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
procurement of goods referred to in Part B.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Reference value shall not be required to be published in the bidding documents.
2.
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and 
the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
Part B:
In addition and without limitation or restrictions to any other provisions set 
forth in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
govern all employment of consultants referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultant shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition 
of participation in the selection process.
2.
Reference value shall not be required to be published in the proposal documents 
except for those procured under Section II, Part B.1 hereof.
3.
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding a 
contract for consulting services.
4.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participating 
in the selection process.
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of Grant Agreements (Section 3.05)
Section I.
Extension Services Agreements:
Page  19
Extension Services Agreements shall provide, inter alia, for:
(a)
a grant amount not exceeding $150,000 equivalent, and not exceeding 95 
percent of the total cost of the Extension Service Subproject; and
(b)
provide for a disbursement period of maximum three years.
Section II.
Adaptive Research Agreements
Adaptive Research Agreements shall provide, inter alia, for:
(a)
a grant amount not exceeding $300,000 equivalent, and not exceeding 75 
percent of the total cost of the Adaptive Research Project; and
(b)
a disbursement period of maximum three years.
Section III.
SPD Agreements
SPD Agreements shall provide, inter alia, for:
(a)
a grant amount not exceeding $250,000 equivalent, and not exceeding 60 
percent of the total cost of the SPD Subproject, and;
(b)
a disbursement period of maximum three years.
