                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                            Report No: 34521

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (TF-27087 SCL-45190)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 9.6 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                            FOR A

                   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT




                                       December 19, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective November 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Nuevos Soles
                                        S/. 1.00 = US$ 0.29
                                      US$ 1.00 = 3.41

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1     December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AgGDP    Agricultural Gross Domestic Product
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
AR       Adaptive Research Projects
ATF      Agricultural Techonology Fund
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CONCYTEC Council for Sicence and Technology (Consejo de Ciencia y Tecnología)
CPP      Policy and Program Coordination Component (Componente de Coordinación de
         Programas y Políticas)
ES       Extension Services Projects
ESSD     Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
FDSE     Fund for Strategic Services Development (Fondo para el Desarrollo de Servicios
         Estratégicos)
FTA      Agricultural Technology Fund (Fondo de Tecnología Agraria)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOP      Government of Peru
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IFPRI    International Food Policy Research Institute
INCAGRO  Innovation and Competitiveness for the Peruvian Agriculture (Innovación y
         Competitividad para el Agro Peruano)
INIA     National Agricultural Research Institute (Instituto Nacional de Investigación Agraria)
INIEA    National Agricultural Research and Extension Institute (Instituto Nacional de
         Investigación y Extensión Agraria)
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
JPN      Japan
LCSER    Latin America and the Caribbean Region Rural Development Family
MAG      Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio de Agricultura)
MEF      Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
MCU      Management and Coordination Unit (Unidad de Administración y Coordinación)
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MIS      Management Information System
MTR      Mid Term Review
NAIS     National Research and Extension System
NBF      Not Bank Financed
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
PAD      Project Appraisal Document

PAN      National Agricultural Priorities (Prioridades Agrarias Nacionales)
PBI      Gross Domestic Product (Producto Bruto Interno)
PCD      Project Concept Document
PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PROFOSE  Development Program for Strategic Services (Programa para el Fomento de Servicios
         Estratégicos)
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
R&E      Research and Extension Unit
SAC      Accounting Administration System (Sistema de Administración Contable)
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SIAF     Financial Administration Integrated System (Sistema Integrado de Administración
         Financiera)
SIGER    Management Information System (Sistema de Información Gerencial)
SNIP     Public Investment National System (Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública)
SSDF     Strategic Services Development Fund
TA       Technical Assistance
TIR      Internal Rate of Return (Tasa Interna de Retorno)
UA       Administrative Unit (Unidad Administrativa)
UCP      Project Coordination Unit (Unidad de Coordinación de Proyecto)
UD       Descentralized Unit (Unidad Descentralizada)
UPSE     Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (Unidad de Planificación, Seguimiento y
         Evaluación)
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
USDA     United States Department of Agriculture
WB       World Bank
WTO      World Trade Organization


                                Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                             Country Director:        Marcelo M. Giugale
                              Sector Manager:         Mark E. Cackler
                                Sector Leader:        Maria D. Clark
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Matthew A. McMahon

                                             PERU
                         Agricultural Research and Extension Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8 Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                   26

Map: PERU IBRD 30426

Project ID: P047690                                                  Project Name: Agricultural Research and Extension
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Matthew A. Mcmahon                                      TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 19, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Agricultural Research and Extension Project              L/C/TF Number: TF-27087; SCL-45190
   Country/Department: PERU                                                               Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (71%); Central government
                            administration (29%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural policies and institutions
                            (P); Participation and civic engagement (S); Land administration
                            and management (S); Water resource management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/15/1999                                     Effective: 01/01/2000                01/23/2001
     Appraisal: 06/20/1999                                         MTR: 06/15/2003                  09/19/2003
      Approval: 11/23/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 01/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF PERU/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo M. Giugale                             Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Mark E. Cackler
Team Leader at ICR:             Matthew A. McMahon                             Matthew A. McMahon
ICR Primary Author:             Suzanne Raswant (FAO/CP)
                                with input from Matthew A.
                                McMahon; Teresa M. Roncal;
                                Maribel M. Cherres


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Project Development Objective is to establish a private sector-led and decentralized agricultural Technology
innovation system. The system would permit farmers and farmer organizations to collaborate with research
institutions in carrying out adaptive research work and to access technical advisory services for a range of needs
from production to management and marketing. This would lead to increased farmer adoption of environmentally
sound technology. The Government would provide cofinancing, and policy guidance for the system. Research
institutions would develop strategic plans to increase their capacity to meet the long term technology needs of the
sector. Information and training institutions would develop plans for rural information services and extension
training programs to complement decentralized, demand-driven extension services. The Project would: (a) improve
management of public investment in agricultural technology; (b) involve producers in planning and financing
adaptive research and extension services; and (c) develop plans for increasing capacity for strategic research and
extension support services.

This project was the first phase of a three phase Adaptable Program Lending (APL). The first program phase
would last three years and would establish a decentralized competitive research and extension system in three
regions of the country with strong private sector participation and develop plans for capacity building in strategic
national research programs. The second phase of the program would last four years and would expand the
decentralized agricultural research and extension system to the rest of the country, and the third phase of the
program, which would last five years would consolidate systems for policy, regulation, operation and financing of a
pluralistic agricultural technology system leading to increased farmer adoption of economically and
environmentally sound technology.

The selection of an APL was a strategic choice made for three reasons. First, institutional development,
agricultural technology generation, and technology adoption are long term processes that would benefit from
stable, long term support. This is especially so in Peru, where major system reform and redirection was necessary.
Secondly, development of a pluralistic research and extension system does not lend itself to blueprint financing.
Institutions require time to develop strategies, plans and alliances, and project financing must adapt to institutional
needs as they evolve. Finally, decentralized provision of demand drive services represented a fundamental change
in Peruvian agricultural innovation programs and required a period of learning and refining program design and
implementation strategies as they are developed.

At the time of project preparation in 1999, Peru had taken several important steps towards the liberalization of the
economy. In the agricultural sector, while liberalization had helped to raise investment in the sector and boost
exports, smallholder agriculture remained marginalized. Public expenditure on research represented only 0.2% of
agricultural GDP. The National Agricultural Research Institute (INIA) had been weakened through a poorly
planned concession of major research stations, flight of qualified personnel and reduced budget. Private sector
research was ad-hoc and uncoordinated.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The overall development objective of the project has not been revised although, in the second phase of the project,
it is proposed to give greater attention to targeting disadvantaged groups, including indigenous people and women.


3.3 Original Components:
The first phase project of the APL financed the following three components:

A Program and Policy Coordination Component (US$ 3.30 million, 23.9% of total costs) would finance a
Program Implementation Unit (PIU) to manage the development of the technology system, coordinate public sector
support for agricultural research and extension, and facilitate institutional reforms.

An Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF) (US$ 7.23 million, 52.3% of total costs)would cofinance adaptive



                                                          - 2 -

research and extension projects on a competitive basis, which would be submitted and selected on regional basis.
Farmers and research and extension institutions (NGOs, universities, private sector firms, government technical
institutions, etc.) would cofinance and execute projects implemented at the regional and community level.

The Institutional Strengthening Component (US$3.19 million, 23% of total costs) would build capacity in
selected programs of strategic significance in the national technology system. It would finance institutional
analyses and planning for selected programs of applied and strategic research and extension training and
information systems and would finance strategic program development projects on a competitive basis through the
Strategic Services Development Fund (SSDF).

3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                              Cost
Program and Policy Coordination                        $ 3.30 million
Agricultural Technology Fund                           $ 7.23 million
Institutional Strengthening                            $ 3.19 million
          Subtotal                                     $13.72 million
          Front-end fee                                $ 0.10 million
TOTAL                                                  $13.82 million

The overall components were not revised but there was some refinement of the focus of activities including, for
example, the pilot project under the ATF specifically for indigenous Andean people, known as Huchuy Ayni.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project was in line with CAS objectives of supporting the Government of Peru's aim to reduce poverty as the
planned improvement of the agricultural technology system was aimed at increasing agricultural productivity and
rural incomes. Project risks were assessed in a realistic manner except for the difficulties inherent in influencing
the overall strategy of the main public sector institution, the National Institute for Agricultural Research - INIA.
The appraisal underestimated the difficulty in bringing about this reform. The independence of the PIU, while
facilitating implementation of most project activities, weakened its influence on policy.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

It is not appropriate to review achievement of the overall development objective at this stage, as only the first phase
of the program has been accomplished. More relevant is whether the limited objectives of the first phase of the
program were accomplished.          In July 2003, an independent, external evaluation mission reviewed the
implementation of 68 projects in order to assess results in qualitative and quantitative terms. The review was
intended to determine whether the critical targets for triggers permitting the start of the second phase had been
achieved. The targets were as follows:

· Competitive extension and adaptive research grants program operating effectively in three regions with at least
75% of ongoing projects having a satisfactory rating;
· Cofinancing of at least 15% of above project costs;
· Existence of comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system producing timely information for management and
evaluation purposes;
· Priorities established for a program of competitive grants to support program development in strategic research,
information and extension services support programs;
· Approval of a strategic plan for INIA, detailing priorities, activities and financing.

While the mission assessed that the targets had been achieved, they identified several areas that required further
strengthening and made recommendations to this effect. Project management addressed the majority of the issues
raised and the limited development objective of the first phase, namely the installation of a pluralistic,



                                                         - 3 -

decentralized and cofinanced agricultural innovation system was achieved.

This assessment is based on the following indicators (Annex 1):

· 8,800 beneficiaries of the services of extension and adaptive research promoted by the project, of whom 9 out 10
adopted new technologies and 92% were small farmers;
· strong private sector participation with 92% of ATF sub-projects and 63% of those under the Strategic Services
Development Fund ­ SSDF- carried out by private sector entities;
· 90% of subprojects considered satisfactory by the external evaluation, compared with a target of 75%;
· cofinancing equivalent to 38% of subprojects' cost indicating successful leverage of additional resources for
investment in the agricultural sector;
· extension of the project to two more regions before the close of the first phase.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Program and Policy Coordination. This component is rated as satisfactory. Reviews of financial management
showed no major issues of discrepancy. The project Monitoring and Evaluation system gathered information on
progress achieved and impact of the subprojects at the local level, although easier access by the decentralized units
for both extracting and entering data would have been beneficial both in terms of information sharing and rapid
updating of the data base. Access and use of the data base, particularly with respect to guiding design of new
subprojects, needs to be improved. Over the course of the first phase, significant progress was made with respect to
the project web site       (www.incagro.gob.pe) with the inclusion of information on subprojects, including
requirements for the preparation of project proposals for co-financing, a virtual training centre, project documents
and links to related sites.

While activities at the decentralized units were simplified with the introduction of project monitoring by goals,
"hitos," which obviated the necessity of reporting on all projects at the same time, the number and variety of tasks
assigned to these units are considered excessive in comparison with the availability of human resources ­ one
professional and one administrative assistant with, in some cases, a messenger/driver. Apart from being the focal
point for contacts with regional authorities (and the project's macro-regions include several departments), the
officers are responsible for local organization of the calls for proposals, preliminary screening of proposals,
arranging training courses, project supervision (technical as well as administrative) and reporting, in addition to
hosting any visitors to the project. Although the staff are dedicated and efficient, the project is weakened by the
lack of stronger decentralized units.

The PIU has focused on project implementation, particularly with respect to administration of the two funds. To
date it has been less successful with respect to institutional reform. In particular, the strategic plan of the National
Institute for Research was considered weak and, despite good working relationships at the local level in some
areas, lack of cooperation between INCAGRO and INIEA (Extension was added to the mandate of the research
institute in 2003). at the national level has been a cause of concern. During the first phase, the project did not
significantly influence policies with respect to agricultural research and extension. Although it could be said to
have led by example, a more pro-active stance on policy and institutional issues will be required if the development
objective of the overall program is to be achieved. This will require a more active role of the project unit in
developing policies within the Ministry of Agriculture.

Agricutural Technology Fund. This component is rated as satisfactory. The focus of this component was to
promote agricultural services that were not financial (extension and adaptive research) as part of the overall
promotion of agricultural innovation. Initially, and particularly in areas where NGOs were most active, the project
encountered resistance to the notion of payment for such services. This helps to explain the emphasis increasingly
placed on the financial viability of proposals ­ the requirement for a business plan from 2002. The project sought
to strengthen this approach by making available training in preparation of proposals and even, in 2003, the
assistance of university students to help applicants with the business plans.




                                                          - 4 -

The selection process has been rigorous. In the first set of competitions in 2001, 30% of proposals were considered
of technical merit and 61% of these, or 27 projects, were eventually co-financed by the project. There were also
significant differences between the three areas where the project operated, with Region V (Central Sierra) having
19% of proposals accepted, while 46% were accepted for Region I (North). The difficulties encountered in the
adequate preparation of proposals led to the introduction of a two-phase process in 2002, with initial evaluation of
project profiles based mainly on technical merit followed by invitation of those whose profiles met selection criteria
to prepare detailed proposals. Support was then provided to help with this preparation process. This encouraged
presentation of a large number of profiles ­ 245 ­ leading to detailed evaluation of 43 proposals, of which 17
(39%) were cofinanced. Performance of Region V was again behind that of the other two areas, with one out of ten
proposals receiving cofinancing.

In 2003, additional major changes were introduced to the selection process with competitions on a national
thematic basis ­ one for extension and the other for adaptive research ­ rather than at a regional level. At the same
time, more attention was given to identifying local priorities and requirements, with training and information
workshops at local rather than regional levels. The situation in Region V was further addressed with the creation
of a special fund for the local indigenous communities (Huchuy Ayni) oriented to smaller projects and supported by
very intense assistance in the proposal preparation process. As a result the proportion of profiles selected for
further preparation was more evenly spread among the regions, which included two new areas. As a result, 16
extension projects (20% of proposals) and 7 adaptive research projects (32%) were eventually cofinanced.

Another modification, which was made in part to prevent bias in presentation of proposals for the different
thematic areas, was to simplify and equalize the maximum amounts and proportions eligible for cofinancing by
INCAGRO. In the first year, a marked preference had been noted for presentation of adaptive research proposals,
which actually covered extension, owing to the possibility of obtaining more cofinancing for these types of projects.
The maximum amount of cofinancing was reduced to $75,000 for both types of subproject, while the proportion of
any project eligible for cofinancing by INCAGRO was 75% with 12.5% each from the clients and the service
provider. These proportions were applied in 2002, but in 2003, owing to reduced resources, INCAGRO cofinanced
only 65% of the subproject cost, with the clients covering 12.5% and the service providers the balance. While the
reduction in funding was inadvertent, it demonstrated the capacity of service providers to make a larger
contribution to the cost of service provision. With respect to the different types of projects supported, cofinancing
from partners was significantly higher than expected over the entire first phase for extension projects ­ 40%
instead of 10% - but slightly less than expected for the adaptive research projects ­ 33% as opposed to the target of
40%.

Particularly with the local level training sessions, a concerted attempt was made to put producers and their
associations in the driving seat of the preparation and presentation of proposals. This was strengthened by the
requirement for partnerships/alliances to obtain official status in order to submit a proposal. At the same time,
INCAGRO attempted to broaden the portfolio of projects by insisting on nationally agreed priorities for the ATF
such as: promotion of agro-commercial production links; contribution to bio-diversity; promotion of good
agricultural practices and alliances between companies and producer groups.

Management of the ATF has clearly been active and concerned to ensure achievement of the development
objective. Initial evaluation of the first phase found 90% of subprojects satisfactory, a testimonial to the strict
selection process and close supervision thereafter. While fewer projects have been funded and fewer farmers
involved than envisaged in the PAD, the attention paid to financial viability and strengthening the role of the
producers should help to ensure sustainability and longer term impact. The substantial effort put into spreading
the message about the value of agricultural services as well as the training provided in project preparation have
helped to establish a sound basis for the decentralized agricultural technology innovation system. Considering only
the direct costs associated with the fund, its administration appears to have been efficient, as these costs amount to
only 1.9% of the total amount funded. (Based on comparison of total costs of the ATF component compared with
the amount actually used for funding of subprojects).

Institutional Strengthening.     This component is rated as unsatisfactory. This component was intended to build
capacity in selected programs of strategic significance in the national technology system. The emphasis on the


                                                         - 5 -

support of strategic development projects on a competitive basis under the SSDF, did not allow for the weakness
and relative isolation of most of the institutions working in the area. Even so, the fund operated relatively well
compared with other attempts at institutional strengthening under this component.

Priority was given to reform of INIA, the main institution concerned with agricultural research, with the project
financing what was intended to be a comprehensive Strategic Plan for INIA. Significant preparatory work went
into this plan with consultative workshops at each of INIA's Experimental Research Stations, three regional
workshops on strategic planning with concerned stakeholders with preliminary identification of regional research
and technology transfer priorities, as well as detailed evaluation of INIA's physical and human resources.
However, the final document did not clearly define INIA's role in a pluralistic innovation system that was central to
the vision of the APL program and it's strategy was supply driven with a lack of clarification as to the public good
role of the institution. As a result, there was a lack of political commitment on the part of the Government to the
Plan with the result that it was shelved. Subsequently, INIA became INIEA, incorporating extension into its
mandate without any reference to the INCAGRO strategy. Although INCAGRO prepared a document elaborating
the role of public and private sectors in the provision of agricultural innovation and services as well as detailed
comments on the new INIEA's regulation, there has yet to be a follow-up from the Ministry of Agriculture. The
resolution of these issues will have to be a priority in the ongoing second phase of the APL.

The strategic program areas identified at the time of appraisal were: (i) for research - biotechnology, genetic
resources, integrated pest management, post-harvest handling and processing, natural resources management and
agricultural economics; and (ii) for extension services support ­ extension agent training and agricultural
information systems.      The research areas were validated by a national workshop on agricultural sector priorities
which emphasized the importance of applied research.              However, the weakness and isolation of concerned
institutions, as well as the project's focus on INIA, limited progress on development of strategies in these areas. In
the area of genetics, the project supported two workshops on zoogenetic resources organized by FAO, which
contributed to the formation of the Network on Zoogenetic Resources in Biodiverse Countries. Support for
biotechnology was provided through cofinancing of activities of the international BioSafety network and of those of
the national Red Bio.

The main way in which the project supported development in the prioritized areas was through the SSDF. Unlike
under the ATF, competitions under the SSDF have always been held at the national level with widespread
participation throughout the country. After the first competition in 2001, where the majority of the 15 successful
projects (out of 172 proposals) concerned genetic improvements, it was decided to organize separate competitions
for research and extension training/information projects as well as to reform the competitive process in a similar
manner to the ATF by introducing an initial project profile stage, and providing more support to the proposal
preparation process. Successful research proposals in the 2002 competition reflected a focus on environmental
concerns as well as genetic resources. While fewer extension training and information profiles were presented
than for research, the separate competitions led to a similar number of cofinanced projects. In 2003, a significantly
larger number of both profiles and full-fledged proposals were reviewed but only 15 could be cofinanced due to
reduced availability of project resources.        While this could have served to discourage future applications,
INCAGRO took care to explain in detail the reasons for rejection, thereby using the procedure as a
capacity-building exercise.

Overall rather more projects were cofinanced under the SSDF than estimated at appraisal, partly because of the
smaller amount of cofinancing, which averaged $60,000/project compared with the $250,000 envisaged. While
INCAGRO provided, on average, 60% of the financing required for the project ­ which was in line with the
maximum of 65% envisaged in the PAD, and more than the 50% target for Phase 1 ­ the contribution of the
alliance partners was mainly in kind (85% of alliance funding, 34% of total financing), consisting of personnel and
facilities. In the case of research projects, the largest part of the cofinancing by INCAGRO was used to supplement
payment of the specialized and supplementary personnel. The cost of delivering these subprojects also appears to
be significantly higher than in the case of the ATF as the direct costs associated with this fund amount to 9.3% of
the amount invested. This is the result of a need for heavy involvement in the process of preparation of subprojects
and their monitoring. ( Based on comparison of total costs of the SSDF subcomponent compared with the amount
actually used for funding of subprojects).


                                                           - 6 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic and financial analysis of the Agricultural Research and Extension follows good practices in the
World Bank, and is based on experiences with similar projects in Latin America and other regions. The PAD
highlighted several issues in the economic analysis of research and extension projects, in particular concerning the
impact of the large proportion of resources in these projects usually allocated to institutional development, which
implied that economic analysis of the whole project might be less meaningful than analysis of individual
investments within the project.      It also emphasized the need to build local capacity for economic analysis
throughout the project cycle in order to facilitate effective evaluation, priority setting and impact assessment. In
line with the recommendation that analyses should be undertaken by analysts within the national system, this
report reflects the economic analysis carried out by the INCAGRO management team and included in their ICR.

The analysis is based on data from the M&E database, data from subproject progress reports prepared by the
executing agencies, and assumptions based on the technical expertise of subproject directors and PIU staff. Out of
the total of 75 adaptive research and extension projects of the ATF, 29 projects were selected for the evaluation.
The selection was mainly based on data availability and is therefore not a formally randomized selection of all
projects. However, the sample size can be considered as sufficient, represents the different regions and project
types, and is not biased towards successful projects. Since many subprojects are not completed yet and the M&E
unit of the PIU is still working on data collection and analysis the results have to be considered as preliminary. The
economic analysis is carried out for a 15-year period. The technology adoption and benefit flow pattern vary
depending on the subproject type and the technology type under consideration. Adoption data are available for the
first years after subproject initiation; adoption pattern beyond this time period is based on assumptions by the
subproject directors. The "without project" scenario accounts for average income increases over time, but does not
account for adoption of the technology generated and/or promoted through project activities.

An aggregated economic analysis for the 29 selected subprojects was carried out. The economic IRR of the
aggregated projects was 34 percent. The high IRR is not surprising considering the low levels of technology and
productivity of Peruvian farmers. These values are comparable with research and extension projects in other
countries. Sensitivity analysis indicates that a 20 percent reduction in project benefits would lead to an IRR of 14
percent.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Financial analysis was carried out using the same benefit streams but with market prices. The result is a slightly
higher overall IRR, providing evidence of minimal subsidization of the agricultural sector. Annex 3 presents the
financial analysis of an individual extension project, which focuses on organic sugarcane production. The analysis
yields a NPV of US$ 850,000 (at a 12 percent discount rate) and an IRR of 48 percent. The financial IRR of the
aggregated projects amounts to 36.5 percent. In order to obtain a more precise picture of the financial impact of
projects on individual farmers, analysis using crop budgets and farm models would be useful.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

As an instrument to develop a decentralized agricultural technology innovation system, institutional development
has been a major activity of the project. The institutional development impact has essentially been one of bringing
into a national system of agricultural technology innovation a range of institutions that had not previously
considered themselves to belong, or to be able to contribute, to such a system. The analysis of project components
suggests that significant steps forward have been taken in an unpromising environment. The foundation has been
laid for further development. The private sector service providers have had opportunities to reinforce their research
and extension capabilities through the support of the project, even where they were not successful in obtaining
cofinancing for a specific subproject. Project management has made a concerted attempt to bring producers and
their associations into the mainstream as drivers of the research and extension process. However, the original
weaknesses of the majority of institutions are such that much more institutional development is required in order to
achieve the development objective. As such, it is appropriate that this project was only the first stage of a longer


                                                         - 7 -

term program.

At the level of public institutions, the failed adoption of a strategic plan for INIA/INIEA, which would have clearly
defined its role in the context of a private-sector led, decentralized agricultural technology innovation system, has
been a setback. Nevertheless, since INIEA continues to be financed by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Bank will
continue to work with the Government in the 2nd Phase of the APL to promote a reform of this institution that will
ensure its proper role as a publicly financed institution in a pluralistic innovation system. The Government has
committed in the Policy Letter accompanying the 2nd Phase to support an INIEA which would concentrate its
resources in a number of strategic programs i.e. smallholder agriculture, that are of a strong public good nature.

The development of plans for strategic research programs was partially completed, three research areas are
advanced, while three others are in progress. The reason for the partial completion of this area, is that the amount
of work and planning required in producing quality plans was beyond the capacity of the small unit assigned to this
task. However, the work has advanced sufficiently to ensure that it will be continued in the 2nd Phase of the APL.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The nature of the competitive process is such that it is difficult to control for differences in the capabilities of
participating institutions. Initially there was considerable disparity between the number and quality of proposals
from the Central Sierra compared with the other two participating regions. The project made a considerable effort
to address this issue through additional training and the introduction of the pilot project for the indigenous
communities of the area.

While an APL appears to be an appropriate lending instrument to meet the development objective of establishing a
new agricultural innovation system, severe strain was placed on project management by the necessity to prepare the
second phase of the loan as if it were a distinct project. Following the external evaluation in 2003, the main focus
of Bank supervision missions was on preparation of the second phase and the project management team was
expected to give full attention to this as well as carrying out implementation of Phase 1. Resources of the small
PIU were certainly stretched.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Although the World Bank approved the project in November, 1999, the Peruvian Government did not sign the loan
agreement until October 2000, thereby delaying project start-up until mid-January 2001. Following good progress
in the initial year of operations, a first extension of Phase 1 until June 30, 2004 was agreed in mid-2002.

While the Government of Peru had signed a Letter of Sector Policy in October, 1999 which supported the
development objective of the project, namely the establishment of a decentralized agricultural technology
innovation system led by the private sector, subsequent Governments appeared less supportive. In particular, the
political will to review the strategic development of INIA in line with this objective was lacking. To the contrary,
eventual restructuring of INIA into INIEA, expanded the role of the public sector in agriculture by including
extension services in the mandate of the restructured organization. This restructuring was carried out without
consultation with INCAGRO and no response was provided to comments on the restructuring provided by the
project.

The project has suffered from occasional shortfalls in funding of Government counterpart resources, which has
caused delays in provision of funding for sub-projects, thereby jeopardizing their implementation. This is basically
an issue of timeliness of availability of resources. However, overall there has been strong financial support for the
project from the Government, with its contribution exceeding that in the loan agreement by approximately
US$810,000.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:



                                                           - 8 -

The project management team has been dedicated and hard-working and it has been able to maintain core staff
both at headquarters and in the field. The stability of personnel has been a major advantage in maintaining the
strategic focus of the project. Attention has been focused on establishment and operation of the two funds through
competitive processes, which is understandable since this was a new departure for the country and required much
effort in develop the mechanisms for the successful implementation of such an initiative. The development of
strategic research programs did not receive adequate attention in terms of personnel and will need to be
strengthened during the next phase.

The project has shown flexibility to change such as witnessed by the setting up of the Huchuy Ayni fund to reach
indigenous communities with projects more geared to their needs, as well the development of a plan to reach more
women farmers. These inititiatives should continue to bear fruit in the second phase of the project.

The transparency of the competitive process has also been important and this has led to internal recognition of this
project within Peru.

While the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit has successfully set up a web-page, there is still much more information
on the competitive processes than on the actual operations and results of the subprojects. The reporting by goals
now needs to be translated into easily updated information on the web site. Ways to facilitate data transmission
between the field and headquarters are needed and the requirement for direct entering of data by the Decentralized
Units will become more pressing as the program is extended under Phase II.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$13.82 million with the Bank Loan contributing US$9.6
million (69.5%), Government US$1.44 million (10.4%), and others US$2.78 million (20%). The project budget
was initially revised in 2002 to accommodate the unallocated funds, again in December 2003, when the project was
extended until 31 January, 2005 and finally in October 2004. The final revision mainly reflected increased
spending under the SSDF, to which funds were transferred from the ATF. At the closure of the first phase, the
loan was 84.6% disbursed. Expenditure on the project from sources other than the World Bank exceeded amounts
originally budgeted/envisaged; GOP 175% others 107%.

In terms of components, expenditure on Program and Policy Coordination exceeded estimates by 45.4 % ($4.8
million vs. $3.3 million).     Expenditure on the ATF was about 28% below expectations ($5.22 million vs
$7.23million). Expenditure on Institutional Strengthening, including the SSDF, exceeded estimates by 13% ($3.61
million vs. $3.19 million). While the increase in expenditure on the first component can be partly explained by
the extension of the project until January 2005, which led to increased general operating expenditures. The
adjustments between the ATF and the SSDF are more a reflection in the nature and content of proposals presented
for financing, especially the level of financing of the respective subprojects; those in the ATF being lower than
what was estimated at appraisal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

In the context of the first phase of an APL, where the second phase has already been approved, the sustainability of
the project is obviously highly likely as the Government and the Bank have agreed to continue operations. The
preparation of the second phase cemented the commitment of both institutions to continue supporting this
approach to support agricultural innovation systems, taking into account the lessons learned in the 1st Phase.

Of more interest is the sustainability of the decentralized, private-sector led agricultural innovation system itself.
Project findings of the weaknesses in institutions operating in the sector and the very magnitude of response to the
limited availability of the funding provided by INCAGRO underline the need for this seed money to drive the
innovation process.      The next phases of the program will need to carefully investigate the scope for



                                                        - 9 -

institutionalizing an appropriate funding mechanism.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The second phase of the APL is now under execution.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The project was consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Peru in so far as it was designed to contribute to
poverty alleviation by increasing agricultural productivity and farmer incomes while, at the same time, supporting
decentralization and private-sector led development. By integrating support to agricultural research and extension
in promotion of an agricultural technology innovation system, the Bank drew on lessons from other countries in
the region, where the impact of projects had been reduced because of the lack of linkages between activities in
research and extension.      The choice of an APL as lending instrument was appropriate as the ambitious
development target of establishing a new agricultural innovation system clearly required longer than the period
normally encompassed by a single investment project.

7.2 Supervision:

The project benefited from having the same Task Manager throughout who participated in all Supervision
missions. This served to ensure a consistent approach on the part of the Bank and contributed to a thorough
understanding of project requirements. Supervision missions were not very frequent in the first two years of the
project (only one a year) but, at this time, the project was performing particularly well. Missions were adequately
staffed to address the issues of the moment. Perhaps the main issue that arose out of the supervision missions was
the lack of dialogue with Government entities outside INCAGRO, particularly the Ministry of Agriculture and
INIA/INEIA. It is arguable whether better channels of communication with the authorities would have enhanced
Government commitment to reform of INIA/INIEA, but ongoing dialogue might have at least kept both parties
better informed of respective concerns and priorities.

Towards the end of Phase I, the focus of supervision missions turned to preparation of Phase II. Phase I continued
for another 16 months and it is possible that supervision of ongoing activities suffered because of the emphasis on
the preparation of Phase II.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

A high-level local preparation team was mainly responsible for preparation of the APL. It worked with the
guidance of a consultative committee and involved producers and other stakeholders through a series of regional
workshops. The Minister of Agriculture at the time was very supportive to the extent of agreeing to pilot extension
projects based on the demand-driven, cofinancing principles.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Although the Government eventually financed a larger proportion of project costs than envisaged, political support
has not always been strong. This was evident in the delayed start to the project and in the lack of commitment to
the proposed reform of INIA/INIEA.




                                                         - 10 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The project has benefited from a dynamic management team which has been able to operate relatively
independently. The fact that it was protected by a Board of Directors may have contributed to it stability. A
weakness has been the shortage of professional staff in the Decentralized Units, whose role has become
increasingly important as more projects require supervision at the same time as new proposals have to be reviewed
and relationships built up with local authorities. In a project where a decentralized approach is emphasized, it is
important to ensure that Decentralized Units are adequately supported.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


The APL because of its long-term nature is useful to carry out sustained policy dialogue, since many of the
institutional reforms proposed in a project such as this require a strong political commitment on the part of
Government, and the reform of public sector institutions are difficult to achieve from within. This requires a
long-term approach as envisioned in this operation. Much work remains to be done to instill the paradigm change
proposed in this program.

A competititve grant system is feasible within the Peru and has been advantageous from several viewpoints. It is a
useful stimulus to the development of a decentralized, private-sector led agricultural innovation system and
provides a means for leveraging additional resources. The emphasis on a detailed business plan, " plan de
negocios", is valuable in ensuring a market orientation to proposals. A two-phase selection process with initial
review of project profiles followed by detailed preparation of proposals for those selected is effective, particularly in
light of considerable technical assistance required for the preparation of detailed project proposals. Competitions
need to be tailored to the characteristics of the area in order to respond better to specific requirements ­ as has been
done with the Huchuy Ayni pilot project for indigenous people. While there are considerable administrative costs
involved with several small competitive processes, this effort is worthwhile in achieving equity within the process.


Because of the weakness of many institutions in the sector, considerable preparatory work ­information, training-
is required which has associated costs both in financial terms and with respect to the time required to successfully
launch the decentralized, private sector-led agricultural technology innovation system. This requires a larger
allocation of resources than was first envisaged.

A Management Information System (MIS) should be established in the very early stages of the project, and
attention needs to be given to making available the knowledge gained from the subprojects particularly with
respect to enabling its use in further development of the agricultural technology innovation system.

While independence from the mainstream Ministry of Agriculture enables a PIU to effectively manage project
operations it is likely to limit its input to national strategy formulation. Relative lack of progress in areas, such as
the development of plans in priority strategic research areas, and an effective strategic plan for INIEA suggests the
need for a different approach and a better integration into the policymaking apparatus of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Attention needs to be given to smoothing the transition from one phase of an APL to another, the
transition itself should not detract from supervision of ongoing activities. In this context, the different phases of an
APL should not be treated like discrete investment projects but Bank and country requirements make them so.




                                                           - 11 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Borrower's assessment of the Project in Annex 8.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                    - 12 -

- 13 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 14 -

 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                                                                     Measurment Unit
                    IMPACT INDICATORS                                                     RESULT
         Clients directly benefiting from all Subprojects               Number          10,334 approx.
              Clients benefiting from all Subprojects                   Number          35,000 approx.
 Area with improved technology reached directly by Subprojects.         Hectares        25,000 approx.
     Area with improved technology reached indirectly by the
                            Subprojects.                                Hectares        98,000 approx.
              Total amount awarded to Subprojects.                        US$            6.4 million
Total amount (monetary and non-monetary) cofinanced by Partners           US$            6.6 million
           Ratio of Project Funding to Partner Funding                   Ratio              1.03
                  Partners monetary contribution.                         US$            1.8 million
       Partners cofinancing (% in monetary contribution.)                  %                27%
             Executing Agencies awarded Subprojects.                    Number               95
                       Agencies in Alliances.                           Number               175
Producer Associations as direct clients of the awarded Subprojects.     Number               137
                       Subprojects awarded.                             Number               123
             Subprojects for extension services (ATF)                   Number               36
Subprojects for extension services with indigenous population (ATF)     Number               16
             Subprojects for adaptive research (ATF)                    Number               27
             Subprojects for strategic research (SSDF)                  Number               28
          Subprojects for extensionistas training (SSDF)                Number               12
           Subprojects for information services (SSDF)                  Number               04
    % of Subprojects directly related to Natural Resources and             %                10%
                   Environmental management.
 Department coverage (departments assisted in relation to the total        %            78% (18 of 23
                          23 departments)                                               departments)




                                                        - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Program and Policy Coordination                               3.30            4.70          145.4
Agricultural Technology Fund                                  7.23            5.22           72.2
Institutional Strengthening                                   3.19            3.61         113.17

Total Baseline Cost                                          13.72          13.53
                          Total Project Costs                13.72          13.53
                           Interest during construction       0.00            0.00
                                         Front-end fee        0.10            0.10
                   Total Financing Required                  13.82          13.63




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB               2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00             0.00         0.02         0.00         0.02
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.01)         (0.00)      (0.01)
2. Goods                            0.00             0.30         0.03         0.00         0.33
                                   (0.00)           (0.20)      (0.02)         (0.00)      (0.22)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00         2.18         0.00         2.18
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.81)         (0.00)      (1.81)
4. Research and Extension           0.00             0.00         9.08         0.00         9.08
Grants
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.30)         (0.00)      (6.30)
5. Front-end Fee                    0.00             0.00         0.10         0.00         0.10
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)      (0.10)
6. Recurrent Costs                  0.00             0.00         2.11         0.00         2.11
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.16)         (0.00)      (1.16)
   Total                            0.00             0.30        13.52         0.00        13.82
                                   (0.00)           (0.20)      (9.40)         (0.00)      (9.60)




                                                 - 16 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.02             0.00              0.02
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.01)            (0.00)           (0.01)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.24             0.00              0.24
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.15)            (0.00)           (0.15)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.63             0.00              1.63
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.34)            (0.00)           (1.34)
   4. Research and Extension                0.00               0.00              8.18             0.00              8.18
   Grants
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.72)            (0.00)           (4.72)
   5. Front-end Fee                         0.00               0.00              0.10             0.00              0.10
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
   6. Recurrent Costs                       0.00               0.00              3.46             0.00              3.46
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.80)            (0.00)           (1.80)
       Total                                0.00               0.00             13.63             0.00             13.63
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.12)            (0.00)           (8.12)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Policy and Program              2.08         0.49         0.00        2.85         1.95       0.00       137.0    398.0      0.0
Coordination
Agricultural Technology         5.60         0.00         1.54        2.87         0.46       1.79       51.3      0.0     116.2
Fund
Institutional Strengthening     1.82         0.95         1.34        2.30         0.12       1.19       126.4     12.6     88.8
Front end Fee                   0.10         0.00         0.00        0.10         0.00       0.00       100.0     0.0       0.0
TOTAL                           9.60         1.44         2.78        8.12         2.53       2.98       84.6     175.7    107.2




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits



The economic and financial analysis of the Agricultural Research and Extension follows good practices in the
World Bank, and is based on experiences with similar projects in Latin America and other regions. The analysis is
structured as follows: (a) summary of general issues for economic analysis of R&E projects; (b) an estimation of
the Internal Rate of Return (IRR).

General Issues for Economic Analysis of R&E projects

The Good Practice Note, "Ex-Ante Economic Analysis in AKIS Projects--Methods and Guidelines,"
(Horstkotte-Wesseler and others 2000) summarizes issues for economic analysis of World Bank-funded R&E
projects. The Note emphasizes that the calculation of a single summary measure should not be the major objective
of the economic analysis of R&E because it is usually subject to a wide range of assumptions. Rather, the priority
should be mainstreaming economic analysis into a process of evaluating costs and benefits for more efficient
resource allocation within the R&E system. Therefore, general support and capacity building within the national
research and extension system (NAIS) should be undertaken to conduct ongoing economic analysis for effective
evaluation, priority setting, and impact assessment.       Since the larger share of resources in R&E projects is
allocated to institutional and human capacity building, the economic analysis of a whole project is not very useful,
and economic analysis of individual investments within the project may be more appropriate and warranted. The
recommended model for evaluation is the economic surplus method (or a simplification thereof). The exact model
type is determined by the activities to be financed by the project, analytical capacity, and data availability.

Estimate of IRR for Investments in the Agricultural R&E Project

A share of resources within the Agricultural R&E Project was allocated to institutional development or capacity
building of the NAIS system in Peru. As discussed, economic analysis for the whole Project is neither very useful
in these cases, nor warranted. The ex ante quantification of economic benefits of certain Project components, such
as the agricultural support programs for extension service providers or the implementation of the science and
technology information system, is very difficult, or even impossible. This is mainly due to the long-term effects of
such activities and difficulties in linking causes and effects. Hence, conducting an economic and financial analysis
for individual Project components is recommended. Adaptive research and extension subprojects under the ATF
are probably more directly linked to benefits than other project investments.

The analysis is based on data from the M&E database, data from subproject progress reports prepared by the
executing agencies, and assumptions based on the technical expertise of subproject directors and PIU staff. Out of
the total of 75 adaptive research and extension projects of the ATF, 29 projects were selected for the evaluation.
The selection was mainly based on data availability and is therefore not a formally randomized selection of all
projects. However, the sample size can be considered as sufficient, represents the different regions and project
types, and is not biased towards successful projects. Since many subprojects are not completed yet and the M&E
unit of the PIU is still working on data collection and analysis the results have to be considered as preliminary. The
economic analysis is carried out for a 15-year period. The technology adoption and benefit flow pattern vary
depending on the subproject type and the technology type under consideration. Adoption data are available for the
first years after subproject initiation; adoption pattern beyond this time period is based on assumptions by the
subproject directors. The "without project" scenario accounts for average income increases over time, but does not
account for adoption of the technology generated and/or promoted through project activities.

Financial Analysis: A financial analysis for adaptive research and extension projects was conducted to demonstrate
the profitability of a project from the direct participants' perspective. Since cost recovery mechanisms would be
implemented under the project in the form of beneficiary contributions, this analysis provides valuable information
on the potential willingness of farmers to pay for adaptive research and advisory services in the future. Table 3a
presents the financial analysis of an individual extension project, which focuses on organic sugarcane production.
The analysis yields a NPV of US$ 850,000 (at a 12 percent discount rate) and an IRR of 48 percent. The financial
IRR of the aggregated projects amounts to 36.5 percent.




                                                         - 18 -

         Table 3a: Financial Analysis of a Single Extension Project ­ Organic Sugarcane Production

 Year            Number of dopters        Total           incremental Total incremental costs Net incremental benefits
                                          benefits
    1                     70                    -21,472                       74,924                  -96,396
    2                     105                     -6,971                      48,411                   -55,382
    3                     110                    29,574                       46,563                   -16,988
    4                     115                    78,531                       49,982                   28,549
    5                     120                    166,251                      51,923                   114,329
    6                     120                    238,038                      52,456                   185,582
    7                     120                    324,608                      52,876                   271,732
    8                     120                    348,119                      52,876                   295,243
    9                     120                    356,123                      52,876                   303,247
   10                     120                    362,621                      52,876                   309,745
   11                     120                    366,584                      58,504                   308,079
   12                     120                    367,410                      52,876                   314,534
   13                     120                    367,556                      52,876                   314,681
   14                     120                    366,865                      52,876                   313,990
   15                     120                    365,188                      52,876                   312,312
                                                                       IRR                       48%
                                                                       NPV (US$)                 848695

Economic Analysis: Since price distortions in Peru are limited and affect only a few products (mainly sugar, cotton,
corn, milk, and rice) the differences between the results of the economic and financial analysis are small. However,
in cases of price distortions (in particular import tariffs) adjustments were made to calculate the economic values.
Table 3b indicates the aggregated economic analysis for the 29 selected subprojects. The economic IRR of the
aggregated projects was 34 percent. The high IRR is not surprising considering the low levels of technology and
productivity of Peruvian farmers. These values are comparable with research and extension projects in other
countries. Sensitivity analysis indicates that a 20 percent reduction in project benefits would lead to an IRR of 14
percent.

                  Table 3b: Economic Analysis of 29 Aggregated R&E Projects

   Year     Number of Adopters            Total incremental            Total incremental         Net incremental
                                                benefits                     costs                    benefits
    1               3,127                     749,309                    2,480,420               -1,731,111
     2              3,952                    1,717,480                    2,674,850                -957,369
     3              4,997                    2,627,124                    2,840,451                -213,328
     4              5,598                    3,596,667                    2,889,122                707,545
     5              6,285                    4,427,935                    3,159,304               1,268,631
     6              6,556                    5,044,689                    3,214,248               1,830,441
     7              6,851                    5,516,078                    3,383,276               2,132,802
     8              7,179                    5,804,678                    3,519,661               2,285,017
     9              7,545                    5,961,965                    3,589,241               2,372,724
    10              7,974                    6,135,920                    3,696,090               2,439,831
    11              8,480                    6,272,804                    3,845,667               2,427,137
    12              9,080                    6,308,742                    3,855,961               2,452,781
    13              9,825                    6,433,620                    3,968,425               2,465,195
    14             10,767                    6,532,017                    4,046,877               2,485,140
    15             11,968                    6,532,766                    4,097,219               2,435,547



                                                          - 19 -

                                                                   IRR                        34%
                                                                   NPV                        6,957,956

Economic Analysis for Overall Project: An estimate of the IRR for the overall Project was not attempted for the
reasons stated above. However, the calculation of the overall productivity gain required in the agricultural sector to
pay the costs is a useful indicator for the economic justification of the investment. The analysis includes the total
annual Project costs, including institutional development, and assumes a time lag for initiation of benefits of four
years. It is projected that the maximum benefits will be attained after eight years from the start of Phase II. The
analysis indicates that a productivity gain of only 0.55 percent of the agricultural gross domestic product (AgGDP)
would lead to an IRR of 12 percent. Compared internationally, the required level is very low. In many countries,
expected productivity gains from agricultural research of between 0.5 and 1.5 percent per year of AgGDP have
been reported.




                                                        - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/25/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1); SR.
                                             ADVISER (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              11/30/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/21/1999                5    TASK MANAGER (1); SR.
                                             ADVISER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (3)
              06/21/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 Supervision

              03/22/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              01/28/2003                3    TASK MANAGER (1); M&E            S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              04/11/2003                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              09/19/2003                4    LEAD AGRICULTURIST/TTL           S               S
                                             (1); LEAD AG. ECONOMIST
                                             (1); AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              03/17/2004                4    TASK MANAGER/ LD.                S               S
                                             AGRICULTURALI (1);
                                             PRICIPAL AGRICULTURALI
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); AGRICULTURIS (1)
              11/04/2004                5    TASK MANAGER (1); SR.            S               S
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1);
                                             SR. FINANCE OFFICER (1);
                                             SR. FINANCIAL MGT SPEC
                                             (1)


 ICR
              01/17/2005                2     TASK MANAGER (1);               S               S
                                              CONSULTANT (1)




                                              - 21 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            54.7                         149.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                29.99                         111.4
  Supervision                          44.72                           168
  ICR                                   6.77                            26
  Total                              136.18                          454.9




                                            - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, PAD Report No. 31389-PE,
World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, PAD Report No. 19841-PE, Oct. 1999
Loan Agreement, Loan No. 4519-PE, Oct. 2000
Supervision Mission Back to Office Reports (BTORs)
Supervision Mission Aide Memoire.
Project Supervision Reports
INCAGRO External Evaluation Report, July 2003
Annual Operational Plans




                                                  - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report


1. Evaluación del objetivo de desarrollo, diseño y la calidad al inicio

En 1999 al formularse el programa (Adaptable Program Loan - APL) para el Proyecto de Investigación y
Extensión Agraria (PIEA) INCAGRO, el Perú había concluido con las principales reformas recomendadas para la
liberalización y apertura de su economía. El déficit fiscal se situaba en niveles razonables, la mayor parte de
empresas públicas habían sido privatizadas, y los programas de subsidios y controles de precios desmontados. Las
restricciones al comercio exterior habían sido removidas y el nivel arancelario rebajado. Estas reformas habían sido
favorecidas por el éxito alcanzado en la lucha antisubversiva. Sin embargo, no se habían conseguido avances
significativos en la reducción de la pobreza. El quiebre de la institucionalidad democrática postergó reformas
fundamentales (descentralización, regulación, justicia, transparencia y control de la corrupción).

En el sector agrario, el Estado redujo sustantivamente su intervención cancelando sus operaciones en
comercialización y servicios financieros, y limitando severamente la inversión pública en investigación, desarrollo
tecnológico y extensión. La liberalización propició un flujo de nuevas inversiones, que adaptando alta tecnología
externa y habilitando tierras marginales, sustentaron el notable crecimiento de las agroexportaciones en los últimos
años. Sin embargo, la pequeña agricultura se mantuvo al margen del proceso de modernización y el área rural
continuó registrando los mayores niveles de pobreza.

La inversión pública en investigación agraria representaba apenas el 0.2% del PBI agrario. El Instituto Nacional de
Investigación Agraria (INIA) había transitado por un proceso fallido de concesiones de sus principales estaciones
experimentales, fuga de talentos, reducción de su presupuesto, y desarticulación de sus programas de investigación.
Diversos proyectos del sector público suplían con deficiencia y compitiendo con organizaciones privadas de
promoción del desarrollo, la provisión de servicios de extensión, mientras que contados y aislados esfuerzos de
investigación prosperaban en universidades y organizaciones privadas.

En un contexto de apertura económica, el factor fundamental de competitividad era el capital humano
especializado capaz de innovar y difundir conocimientos validados, adaptar procesos y productos a condiciones
particulares, ensayar nuevas alternativas o un paso antes, identificar las causas de los problemas que afectan la
producción o los potencialidades de nuevos materiales.

Una opción para promover la competitividad agraria era concentrar capital humano especializado en alguna
entidad del Estado. Sin embargo, su costo superaba largamente las posibilidades fiscales aún en el escenario más
optimista, y contradecía el enfoque de mercado de las reformas. Otra opción era esperar que el sector privado
asumiera esta responsabilidad. Su escaso compromiso hasta entonces, no permitía pensar que este camino se
ajustara a las urgencias de la apertura ni a la heterogeneidad del sector agrario peruano.

Dadas las circunstancias y considerando experiencias similares en otros países de la región, se aconsejaba una
intervención pública prolongada orientada a catalizar la intervención del sector privado y mejorar los instrumentos
públicos especializados y complementarios. Los diversos actores públicos, semipúblicos y privados, debían
reconocerse como parte de un sistema de ciencia, tecnología e innovación dispuesto a sumar esfuerzos y cooperar.
El APL definía así sus objetivos en tres fases, de establecimiento, expansión y consolidación del un sistema, plural,
descentralizado, orientado por la demanda y liderado por el sector privado.

La puesta en marcha de la primera fase del APL coincidió con el proceso de recuperación de la institucionalidad
democrática del Estado. Luego de una transición de nueve meses, se instaló el actual gobierno que relanzó con
nuevas bases, el proceso de descentralización del Estado y de formación de regiones. La economía mantuvo el
rumbo, acumulando un crecimiento sostenido por un quinquenio luego del bajón provocado por la crisis asiática y
el fenómeno del Niño a finales de los 90. En ese contexto, el Perú se encuentra empeñado en concluir acuerdos de
integración comercial, bilaterales y multilaterales.




                                                        - 26 -

En el sector agrario, un segmento moderno y de alta tecnología prosiguió ampliando la base exportadora. Las
políticas de promoción del Ministerio de Agricultura coincidieron con la formación y consolidación de algunas
cadenas productivas en cultivos tradicionales. Se avanzó en titulación y registro de tierras, en programas de
sanidad vegetal y animal, en rehabilitación de infraestructura de riego y mejora en su gestión. Las agencias
agrarias y otras entidades del sector, incluyeron entre sus actividades, algunas labores de extensión productiva y
promoción.

La misión de evaluación externa (julio del 2003), concluyó que el Proyecto en su primera fase había alcanzado de
manera satisfactoria los activadores requeridos para transitar a una segunda fase, opinando que se estaba
realizando un valioso aporte a la construcción de un sistema de ciencia, tecnología e innovación agraria. No se
pronunció, en cambio, ni brindó evidencia concluyente, sobre el establecimiento de dicho sistema. INCAGRO
convocó cerca de dos mil organizaciones entre públicas y privadas, agrupadas en alianzas estratégicas, pero no
logró madurar consensos ni establecer enlaces suficientes en torno a prioridades, programas estratégicos y
asignación de roles y responsabilidades.

La Unidad de Coordinación del Proyecto (UCP) mantuvo un perfil bajo que le permitió transitar sin sobresaltos,
dos gobiernos y seis administraciones del MINAG, pero que redujo su capacidad de influir en las políticas y otros
instrumentos del sector. Así INCAGRO no pudo incidir en las políticas relacionadas a la provisión de servicios
públicos, ni en el curso estratégico del INIEA aún cuando esta institución tuvo un papel destacado en los
concursos. El INIEA a través de sus estaciones experimentales, participó de 137 alianzas estratégicas 70 de ellas
como entidad ejecutora. En total se le adjudicaron seis subproyectos como entidad ejecutora..

El diagnóstico y los resultados de la alternativa elegida confirmaron su pertinencia y la consistencia de su
estrategia con el rol promotor, facilitador y subsidiario del Estado. Las acciones del Proyecto se han ajustado a esta
orientación y han fortalecido dicho rol, constituyéndose en un ente especializado en la dimensión del
financiamiento. Sin embargo, ha faltado una definición más precisa sobre los alcances y características del sistema
de ciencia, tecnología e innovación. La experiencia de estos años puso en evidencia que la debilidad institucional
es una limitación compartida por el sector público y privado, y que esta limitación es más aguda fuera de la capital,
en los departamentos del interior del país.



2. Logro del Objetivo y Productos

INCAGRO logró convocar en sus 14 concursos, a 1 955 organizaciones de distinto tipo de todo el país. De ellas,
741 eran organizaciones de pequeños productores demandantes de servicios de extensión e investigación
adaptativa. Estas organizaciones formaron 560 alianzas estratégicas con 728 entidades proveedoras de servicios o
colaboradoras, de las cuales 79 fueron subproyectos. El término "subproyecto" refiere a las propuestas en ejecución
o concluidas de alianzas estratégicas con contratos de adjudicación de cofinanciamiento con INCAGRO y
seleccionadas por concurso. Adjudicados por el Fondo de Tecnología Agraria (FTA).

Otras 412 organizaciones formaron alianzas estratégicas con el propósito de emprender 257 subproyectos de
investigación estratégica y 28 fueron adjudicadas. También se constituyeron 219 alianzas con 396 organizaciones
diferentes, para formar extensionistas o desarrollar servicios de información, poniéndose en marcha 16
subproyectos.    Todas estas organizaciones fueron convocadas por el Fondo para el Desarrollo de Servicios
Estratégicos (FDSE).

Con 123 subproyectos, INCAGRO adjudicó US$ 6.4 millones, comprometiendo una contrapartida monetaria y no
monetaria de las alianzas estratégicas por US$ 6.6 millones. En total US$ 13.0 millones con una duración
promedio de 25 meses y una inversión mensual de US$ 520 mil. En total, las demandas presentadas a INCAGRO
en todos los concursos, a nivel de perfiles y propuestas, sumaron US$ 54.4 millones.              Las contrapartidas
comprometidas por estos demandantes sumaron US$ 44.6 millones.

El número de organizaciones participantes y los montos involucrados, son apenas una pálida evidencia, pero



                                                         - 27 -

evidencia al fin, de la potencialidad y ebullición entre los actores de un sistema de ciencia, tecnología e innovación.
INCAGRO ha contribuido a visualizar a estos actores. Sin embargo, no ha hecho lo suficiente por vincularlos y
sumar valiosos esfuerzos aún aislados.

Indicadores de Desempeño ­ Marco Lógico.            El Documento de Evaluación de Proyecto (Project Appraisal
Document, PAD) incluyó un "Plan de Monitoreo y Evaluación" con 69 indicadores. De éstos, siete correspondían
al Propósito del programa, nueve al Objetivo de Desarrollo y 53 a los Productos esperados por componentes (CPP,
FTA y PROFOSE).

Estos indicadores fueron revisados, evaluados y reformulados en junio del 2003 en la Misión de Evaluación del
Banco Mundial (del 18 al 20 de junio). Para esta revisión se conformó un equipo especial de trabajo integrado por
Derek Byerlee, economista líder de la Misión del BM y personal de INCAGRO (Víctor Chumbe y Jorge Alarcón).
Al final de este proceso, se mantuvieron 20 indicadores y se agregaron 15 nuevos, sumando un total de 35 (tres a
nivel de propósito, ocho de objetivo de desarrollo y 24 de productos).

Los cambios se efectuaron para contar con una mejor representación de las actividades y estrategia de
implementación de INCAGRO, clarificar la definición de algunos indicadores y reflejar los ajustes requeridos en la
implementación de los instrumentos del Programa.

Las metas de los indicadores fueron también revisadas, algunas ajustadas y otras anuladas cuando se consideró que
carecían de fundamentos sólidos. Comentarios explicativos fueron añadidos en aquellos casos donde hubo cambios
significativos o la meta no era precisa.

Considerando los resultados del nuevo grupo de 35 indicadores, a nivel de propósito del programa destaca que de
los 11 mil productores agrarios previstos, participaron activamente 8.8 mil como clientes efectivos de los servicios
de extensión e investigación adaptativa. Los reportes de seguimiento y las evaluaciones finales de los subproyectos
concluidos dan cuenta que en promedio, no menos de nueve de cada 10 productores adoptaron nuevas tecnologías.
Del total de productores, 92% eran pequeños.

Uno de los indicadores incluidos proponía medir la reducción de costos por unidad de producto. Los datos
recogidos desde los planes de negocios, dan cuenta que en la mayoría de casos dichos costos son en promedio más
elevados porque aumentó el volumen y la calidad de los insumos obteniéndose productos finales superiores. El
aumento del valor de producción, expresado en precios efectivos en el mercado, fue significativamente mayor al
aumento en los costos.

Si bien los planes de negocios, no se han ejecutado en los plazos previstos y requerirán acciones complementarias
al concluirse formalmente los subproyectos; y aún cuando los retornos estarían por debajo de lo previsto, estos
negocios han confirmado su pertinencia, viabilidad y sostenibilidad. Con los planes experimentales, los plazos
originales también fueron desbordados y los resultados no alcanzaron a colmar las expectativas, pero se cuenta con
evidencias definitivas de contribuciones importantes principalmente en genética y sanidad.

Entre los objetivos de desarrollo se evidencia que 92% de subproyectos FTA y 70% del FDSE, fueron ejecutados
por entidades del sector privado. De los subproyectos FTA, 18% fueron conducidos por las organizaciones de
productores clientes y su cofinanciamiento monetario sumó en promedio, 11% (22% si se consideran los aportes no
monetarios), alcanzando 25.4% con el aporte de las otras entidades (47% considerando los aportes no monetarios).

En resumen, la ejecución del proyecto puede considerarse satisfactoria pues la mayor parte de los indicadores han
sido atendidos y se ha proporcionado un conjunto de orientaciones para ajustar la intervención en la segunda fase
del programa.




                                                         - 28 -

a. Resultados por Componentes

Fondo de Tecnología Agraria (FTA).          De acuerdo al PAD, los resultados esperados de este componente
comprendían el establecimiento de un sistema descentralizado para la difusión del conocimiento y de soluciones a
problemas en la producción, post-cosecha y comercialización.           Asimismo, este sistema debía asegurar la
participación de los productores en la generación de tecnologías eficientes y ambientalmente sostenibles. Durante
la ejecución del componente se precisó el objetivo como la promoción del mercado de servicios agrarios no
financieros (extensión e investigación adaptativa) parte de un sistema más amplio de innovación agraria.

La atención del FTA se concentró en los factores que afectan los costos de transacción y que explicaban el pobre
desempeño del mercado de servicios. La limitada capacidad de pago de pequeños productores desorganizados, la
tradición de provisión gratuita del sector público y ONG, la escasa valoración de los servicios y de información
sobre sus ventajas, influían en la debilidad de la demanda.       Del lado de la oferta, el número de proveedores
privados era reducido, especialmente en la sierra y selva carecían de un enfoque empresarial redundando en
prácticas asistencialistas, contaban con poca experiencia para atender a pequeños productores rurales, y tenían
dificultades para acceder a conocimientos e información técnica de calidad y actualizada.

La intervención del FTA se orientó a reducir estos costos de transacción, aproximando la disposición al pago de los
productores demandantes con la disposición al cobro de los oferentes. El cofinanciamiento del FTA constituyó un
subsidio parcial y temporal a la demanda (productores clientes de los servicios). El costo restante debía ser
asumido por los clientes con dinero en efectivo, y contribuciones complementarias de operadores y colaboradores.

Los concursos tal como fueron lanzados, no establecieron una estrategia diferenciada que con criterios de equidad,
reconociera características particulares en poblaciones afectadas por distintos mecanismos de exclusión social. Un
concurso piloto con poblaciones indígenas andinas, Pequeña Ayuda Mutua ("Huchuy Ayni"), fue implementado
durante el año 2003 en el departamento más pobre del país, Huancavelica.

Los procesos de adjudicación de recursos FTA y FDSE, consideraban cinco etapas (preparación de bases,
convocatoria, evaluación de propuestas, negociación financiera, y adjudicación y contratación). La calificación de
propuestas era encargada a un panel externo de evaluadores calificados e independientes. Para reforzar la calidad
de las propuestas, se ejecutaba un plan de capacitación centrado en las herramientas de formulación de proyectos.

En coherencia con los ajustes en el enfoque del componente, se introdujeron cambios en los instrumentos. Se puso
en marcha un proceso descentralizado de consultas a diferentes actores del mercado de servicios, a nivel local y
regional, para identificar demandas relevantes. En el proceso de adjudicación de fondos se homogenizaron los
montos y porcentajes a cofinanciar, y se requirió la presentación de un plan de negocios como sustento de las
propuestas.

A partir de los concursos del 2002, se establecieron dos etapas dentro del proceso de adjudicación de recursos, una
de presentación de perfiles y otra de propuestas definitivas.      Para los concursos del 2003, se exigió mayor
formalidad y transparencia en la formación de las alianzas estratégicas y un papel más activo de las organizaciones
de productores. La primera convocatoria por macroregiones, fue reemplazada por un concurso único por tipo de
subproyectos (extensión e investigación adaptativa), compensándose las diferencias con una estrategia de
capacitación intensiva a nivel descentralizado (material didáctico, talleres y otras actividades de capacitación,
programas de prácticas pre-profesionales en provincia).

De los 35 indicadores convenidos en la revisión de junio del 2003, 11 corresponden al componente FTA. Durante
la Fase I se pudo constatar la disposición al pago de los productores clientes, habiéndose apalancado recursos
complementarios de operadores y entidades colaboradoras.           Se identificaron planes de negocios rentables,
orientados a mejorar la articulación al mercado y los servicios necesarios para su ejecución, aunque las
organizaciones de productores tuvieron un papel disminuido en las alianzas estratégicas. En el período se han
fortalecido las capacidades de los operadores de servicios en el manejo de instrumentos de formulación de
proyectos, planes de negocios y de servicios. Sin embargo, una buena parte de operadores no se orientan aún por



                                                       - 29 -

criterios de calidad y mercado.

Se introdujo el concepto de servicios a la innovación rompiendo el paradigma de privilegiar el financiamiento o los
bienes (insumos, infraestructura, equipos). En los subproyectos de investigación adaptativa, el productor asumió
riesgos por la validación de la tecnología.

El fondo concursable demostró ser un medio transparente, eficaz y eficiente. Los costos de los concursos fueron
relativamente bajos y se pudo contrarrestar sesgos y comportamientos distorsionados (oportunistas, asistencialistas,
etc.).

El PAD estimó un monto promedio bajo de cofinanciamiento por subproyecto. En términos efectivos, el monto
duplicó lo previsto reduciéndose la cobertura en número de subproyectos y población atendida. En la ejecución sin
embargo, se comprobó que los presupuestos y plazos estaban algo sobredimensionados a falta de costos y precios
referenciales de los servicios en un mercado con escasa información y desarrollo.

En resumen, los resultados han sido medianamente satisfactorios.

Fomento de Servicios Estratégicos. Este componente conocido como Programa para el Fomento de los Servicios
Estratégicos (PROFOSE), era el responsable del Fondo para el Desarrollo de Servicios Estratégicos (FDSE). Su
objetivo era contribuir a la planificación y establecimiento de prioridades para el desarrollo de programas en áreas
prioritarias, el desarrollo de estrategias institucionales para entidades claves y un fondo competitivo para el
desarrollo de subproyectos en programas estratégicos.

Si bien el objetivo estaba adecuadamente formulado y acotado, no evaluó a los actores de gestión, a los decidores de
políticas y a los entes financieros.     Todas estas entidades estaban debilitadas en sus capacidades o habían
desaparecido. Las entidades de ejecución presentaban serias limitaciones en equipamiento, infraestructura y demás
recursos, estaban aisladas o poco integradas a redes y centros de excelencia, y sus equipos profesionales estaban
poco actualizados y con niveles de formación inadecuados o insuficientes.

Durante la primera fase, se destinaron limitados recursos para fortalecer las capacidades de gestión y gerencia de la
investigación y el desarrollo tecnológico (políticas, prioridades, visión prospectiva, planificación, autonomía, y
otros). El fondo competitivo de INCAGRO autorizaba destinar hasta el 27% del total del cofinanciamiento para
apoyar las capacidades físicas para hacer investigación (obras civiles, equipos y bienes duraderos), del cual apenas
se empleó el 12%. La mayor parte de recursos fue solicitada para atender costos operativos y para complementar
capacidades profesionales con servicios de consultoría.

PROFOSE realizó una conferencia de planificación en el área de economía agraria con el objetivo de contrastar las
potencialidades de desarrollo agrario regional con las necesidades tecnológicas.          Los tres eventos de esta
conferencia encontraron una brecha tecnológica significativa en el aprovechamiento de la biodiversidad regional y
el sostenimiento de los recursos naturales renovables de ecosistemas frágiles.

Antes de convocar a los concursos FDSE se llevó a cabo un taller de consulta de Prioridades Agrarias Nacionales
(PAN). Este taller validó los seis programas estratégicos propuestos en el PAD: (1) recursos genéticos; (2)
biotecnología; (3) manejo integrado de plagas y enfermedades; (4) recursos naturales renovables; (5) post
producción y procesamiento; y (6) economía agraria, incidiendo en la importancia de la investigación aplicada sin
descuidar la investigación básica.

La debilidad y aislamiento de las entidades impidió avanzar a la consolidación de los programas estratégicos. Esta
situación no sólo afectó a INCAGRO, sino que ya venía dificultando otras iniciativas, como las del Grupo Técnico
de Agrobiodiversidad, la RedBio (ambas impulsadas por la FAO) o la de Biocomercio (consorcio financiado por
donantes internacionales), el Programa de Biotecnología de CONCYTEC y la red de agricultura ecológica
(iniciativas nacionales). INCAGRO ha favorecido la formulación del Plan Nacional de Agrobiodiversidad, del
Plan Estratégico de Biocomercio y del plan de acción de laboratorio de la RedBio.




                                                        - 30 -

La acción en planes estratégicos institucionales se concentró en el INIA, con resultados insatisfactorios,
especialmente por la carencia de políticas en investigación y desarrollo sectorial que establecieran las competencias
públicas en esta área. Los responsables del INIA insistieron en una visión tradicional de una macro entidad
pública, monopólica y ejecutora exclusiva de investigación, sin diferenciar los bienes científicos y tecnológicos
públicos de los privados.

Los subproyectos de apoyo a los servicios de extensión consideraban capacitación de extensionistas e información
de tecnologías y mercados requeridos por las organizaciones de productores. Los contenidos curriculares más
exitosos referían a planes de negocios (asesoría comercial y gestión) y capacitación en técnicas de manejo de
recursos genéticos regionales o introducidos con potencial competitivo (semilla de papa, camélidos, ají páprika),
los que demandan extensionistas competentes y calificados.

Los subproyectos de información si bien reunían características originales en el uso de las nuevas tecnologías de
información y comunicaciones, eran muy dispares, no daban evidencias claras de los beneficios alcanzados, ni de
su replicabilidad y sostenibilidad.

De los 35 indicadores convenidos en la revisión de junio del 2003, nueve corresponden a este componente. Los
primeros refieren al objetivo de incrementar la capacidad de hacer investigación básica y aplicada. Los concursos
permitieron identificar ideas y capacidades orientadas a iniciar, acelerar o completar procesos de investigación lo
que aseguró un uso más eficiente y eficaz de los recursos. Sin embargo, no crearon incentivos suficientes para la
integración de los esfuerzos en una agenda de investigación y desarrollo de mediano y largo plazo que condujera al
fortalecimiento de programas estratégicos y la sostenibilidad institucional de la investigación.

Otros indicadores se relacionan al objetivo de elevar la capacidad de proveer asistencia y tecnologías a los servicios
de extensión.    El fondo competitivo contribuyó a evidenciar la falta de capacidades y la demanda de los
extensionistas por mejorar su nivel, pero la ausencia de un enfoque de competencias que integraran los programas
curriculares a los perfiles de profesionales que operan en el mercado, no permitió valorar o medir el impacto de
estas acciones.

En conjunto, los resultados pueden ser descritos como medianamente satisfactorios.

Coordinación del Programa y de Políticas. Este componente era el responsable de la ejecución del Proyecto a
través de una Unidad de Coordinación del Proyecto (UCP). Comprendía el Consejo Directivo, la Dirección, las
Unidades Técnicas responsables de los componentes, una Unidad de Planificación, Seguimiento y Evaluación
(UPSE), una Unidad Administrativa (UA) y tres Unidades Descentralizadas (UD). Entre sus funciones se incluía
el encargo de coordinar el apoyo del sector público al sistema de ciencia, tecnología e innovación agraria.

El Consejo Directivo fue conformado de manera plural, con una sólida representación del sector privado lo que
contribuyó a la legitimidad y estabilidad de la Unidad de Coordinación del Proyecto (UCP), así como al
afianzamiento de principios del sistema propuesto.         A pesar de su involucramiento en las actividades de
INCAGRO, su papel en la formulación de políticas para el proyecto fue poco significativo.

Los procesos de selección de personal se orientaron a convocar a un grupo experimentado, homogéneo y funcional.
El mismo criterio se empleó en las tres unidades descentralizadas implementadas para acompañar de manera
principal, los subproyectos del FTA.

Al momento del diseño del Programa y su primera fase, el proceso de descentralización del Estado y la
organización regional del país efectuado a fines de los 80', estaba totalmente desactivado. El plan de expansión
del FTA consideró el agrupamiento de departamentos por afinidad y nexos comerciales en áreas promisorias para
negocios agrarios. Estos agrupamientos constituyeron para efectos del proyecto, macroregiones. Así, se inició la
intervención de INCAGRO en las macroregiones I (Tumbes, Piura y Lambayeque), V (Huancavelica, Junín, Pasco
y Huánuco), y VII (San Martín, Amazonas y la selva de Cajamarca). Para los concursos del 2003 se incluyeron los




                                                        - 31 -

departamentos de La Libertad (costa), Lima (costa) e Ica. El FDSE siempre efectuó concursos de carácter nacional.

En el primer año, las UD se concentraron en promover los concursos. Progresivamente se hicieron cargo del
seguimiento de los subproyectos.        Dicho seguimiento tuvo inicialmente un enfoque muy administrativo,
"controlista", organizado por trimestres calendario. El seguimiento técnico estuvo poco asociado al financiero y
con escasa atención a los planes de negocios y experimentales. Para los subproyectos del FTA, se efectuaron
estudios de línea de base con datos básicos sobre el perfil y condiciones de los productores clientes. Sin embargo,
no se ajustaron los indicadores de los marcos lógicos de acuerdo a su pertinencia, jerarquía y calidad.

Para el 2003 se levantaron líneas de base en los subproyectos FDSE y se reformuló el enfoque de seguimiento por
pasos críticos (cumplimiento de "hitos" claves en el logro de resultados de los subproyectos) y productos asociados
al desempeño de los planes de negocios y objetivos originalmente formulados. Con el proceso de cierre de los
subproyectos concluidos se fue diseñando un protocolo más preciso para evaluar los resultados y se efectuaron dos
consultorías para la formulación y validación de metodologías de evaluación de impacto (FTA-FDSE)..

La UPSE desarrolló instrumentos informáticos para facilitar los procesos de planeación y presentación de reportes
de avance por parte de los subproyectos con indicadores de eficiencia y eficacia, sistemas computarizados de
elaboración y evaluación del Plan Anual Operativo y de los Informes Técnico-Financiero de los subproyectos,
respectivamente. Hacia el final de la primera fase, se desarrolló un instrumento complementario para integrar la
información de los subproyectos y su gestión (Maestro).

Por su parte, la UA implementó el Sistema de Administración Contable (SAC) para el seguimiento financiero de
las actividades del Proyecto. Este sistema era un requisito administrativo establecido por el Banco Mundial y que
debía interactuar con el SIAF. Los raros casos de desvío de fondos por subproyectos que se presentaron en el 2002,
fueron rápidamente sancionados. Pero la débil integración en los aspectos técnicos y financieros dificultó que se
efectuara un seguimiento más estrecho y proactivo, lo que permitió que los subproyectos se atrasaran. Este desfase
viene siendo corregido con el desarrollo de un programa de integración de los diversos instrumentos informáticos,
el Sistema de Información Gerencial (SIGER).

La planeación anual del Proyecto ha respondido más a las exigencias normativas del sector público que a las
necesidades de coordinación interna entre los diversos componentes. Esta deficiencia ha impedido aprovechar
todas las sinergias entre los componentes, dificultando la retroalimentación entre los concursos y los resultados de
los subproyectos, entorpeciendo tareas administrativas como los procesos de adquisiciones de bienes y servicios, y
provocando desajustes entre los calendarios programados y los efectivamente ejecutados.

INCAGRO no ha logrado aprovechar aún el enorme potencial que tiene la información que generan los
subproyectos que cofinancia. Esta es una tarea pendiente. Del mismo modo, la coordinación regional y temática de
los subproyectos es una tarea fundamental apenas iniciada.         Una relación bilateral con los subproyectos no
contribuye al desarrollo de la idea de un sistema.

Se previó efectuar algunos estudios sobre el sistema de ciencia y tecnología, estudios especiales y estudios de casos,
y análisis institucional.   Se efectuaron estudios a profundidad del sistema, oferta y demanda en las tres
macroregiones previstas para la intervención. En esos mismos ámbitos y con base en los subproyectos en ejecución,
se revisó la disposición a pagar y los costos de transacción. En la fase de diseño de la segunda fase se han
completado estudios a profundidad sobre el sistema mismo, sobre las brechas entre demanda y oferta de ciencia y
tecnología, sobre información y políticas, grupos vulnerables, descentralización, entre otros.

Si bien el componente CPP logró sus objetivos, es necesario reconocer que el Proyecto no ha logrado proyectarse e
influir de modo significativo en las políticas e instrumentos de promoción y ejecución de la investigación y
extensión. El Proyecto funcionó más en relación con sus subproyectos que con su entorno, en el marco de un
esfuerzo silencioso por validar un nuevo enfoque de intervención pública que se mantuvo relativamente aislado y
desconocido, dificultando incluso el proceso de negociación de la segunda fase.

Ha faltado una acción más decidida para hacer de los subproyectos, una masa crítica influyente. El riesgo de


                                                       - 32 -

dispersión de esfuerzos, de repetición e intrascendencia es uno de los desafíos pendientes. Por ello, se debe
reconocer que el grado de satisfacción alcanzado no fue suficiente.

b. Análisis Económico y Financiero.

Para estimar los resultados se proyectó el desempeño a 15 años, de 21 subproyectos cofinanciados por el Fondo de
Tecnología Agraria (FTA) considerando la información disponible, los avances y resultados alcanzados en los
casos de culminación. Del total, cuatro habían sido adjudicados en el 2001, 11 en el 2002 y seis en el 2003; nueve
correspondían a la macroregión I, cuatro a la V y ocho a la VII. Cinco subproyectos eran de café, tres de papa, dos
de arroz (combinado uno con leguminosas), uno de leguminosas, dos de ganadería, uno de algodón, otro de cacao,
maíz amarillo duro, alcachofa, ají piquillo, peces, manejo del bosque seco y producción forestal.

El resultado del análisis a precios financieros (de mercado) arrojó una Tasa Interna de Retorno (TIR) de 41.4%. A
precios financieros (sociales o sombra) el TIR resultante fue de 40.6%. Esto indica que en promedio, la economía,
como un todo, transfirió recursos al sector agrario como resultado de la protección arancelaria y sobretasas que
superaron las cargas tributarias a los insumos.

Las tasas de retorno obtenidas ajustan las proyecciones originales de los planes de negocios pero confirman que en
conjunto, los subproyectos proporcionan importantes ingresos a los productores y vienen representando una
contribución al desarrollo agrario.

c. Impacto en Desarrollo Institucional

El establecimiento de un sistema de ciencia, tecnología e innovación es esencialmente un desafío de orden
institucional. Lo es en el sentido de la maduración de las organizaciones que lo conforman, de sus nexos, los roles
público-privados, y en general, los arreglos institucionales entre los participantes. La primera fase puso en
evidencia apenas una muestra de las organizaciones involucradas en la innovación, sin contar a muchos agentes
privados medianos y grandes que vienen adaptando tecnologías foráneas para negocios de agroexportación. Pero
en todo el universo organizacional, las debilidades institucionales son más que evidentes.

La mayor parte de organizaciones presentan deficiencias de gobierno y gestión e incluso de funcionamiento formal.
Esto es más agudo entre las organizaciones de productores. Es escasa la práctica de alianzas y las redes no
alcanzan a consolidarse. La base de recursos humanos y materiales es débil, lo que induce a las organizaciones a
preferir relaciones con donantes. Por su parte, los investigadores actúan de modo muy disperso y no conforman
centros de excelencia.

La intervención de INCAGRO ha inducido la formalización y ordenamiento de muchas organizaciones, alentado
alianzas estratégicas basadas en acuerdos explícitos y en la cooperación de las entidades participantes más allá de
estos acuerdos, contribuyendo a la consolidación y fortalecimiento de diversas cadenas agro-comerciales, así como,
al cofinanciamiento y sostenibilidad de los subproyectos. En 22 casos, incluyendo la totalidad de los subproyectos
del concurso piloto "Huchuy Ayni", las organizaciones de productores tomaron a su cargo la conducción de las
actividades de los subproyectos.      Un tercio de ONG operadoras han revelado un enfoque más empresarial y
podrían mantener los servicios o extenderlos a otros productores.

En el caso específico de muchas organizaciones participantes como entidades ejecutoras en los fondos FTA y
FDSE, se hicieron evidentes sus debilidades administrativas, dificultades para ajustarse a los planes de ejecución,
para presentar sus reportes y evidenciar los resultados. Estas deficiencias son compartidas por las entidades
públicas y privadas aunque a las primeras se suman los inconvenientes impuestos por procedimientos pautados y
sistemas de control rígidos.

En el plano más específico del sector público agrario no hubo un cambio institucional que reflejara cabalmente los
nuevos roles públicos y privados.




                                                        - 33 -

3. Principales Factores que afectaron la Implementación y Resultados.

a. Factores que escapan del control del Gobierno o Agencia Ejecutora.

Los montos comprometidos en los subproyectos adjudicados en los años 2001 y 2002, fueron depositados en un
fideicomiso de responsabilidad de una entidad financiera.       Este mecanismo facilitó los desembolsos a los
subproyectos y permitió comprometer recursos más allá del período de vigencia del préstamo, aunque irrogó costos
adicionales tanto en comisiones a la fiduciaria como en pago de intereses al Banco Mundial (BM) por recursos que
no estaban siendo aún utilizados. De otra parte, el mecanismo no ponía presión sobre INCAGRO para asegurar
que los calendarios de desembolsos de los subproyectos se cumplieran.

Una revisión ulterior del BM (septiembre del 2003) obligó a cancelar la cuenta fiduciaria y trasladar los fondos
remanentes al Banco de la Nación. Los subproyectos adjudicados el 2003 debieron ser atendidos directamente por
la UA de INCAGRO, concordando los calendarios operativos de los subproyectos y los del Proyecto. El efecto
indeseado fue que una parte significativa de los montos comprometidos en el 2003 no pudieron ser atendidos con
recursos del préstamo que fue efectivo hasta enero del 2004.

El concepto de un APL ha tenido poco efecto en la transición de la primera a la segunda fase. El BM trató el
asunto en forma convencional, como la ampliación o relanzamiento de un proyecto que terminaba. Más exigente
aún ha sido el Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública (SNIP). Como consecuencia, la transición entre una y otra
fase ha sido muy costosa en términos de gasto, pérdida de espacios ganados e incertidumbre.

b. Factores sujetos a control del Gobierno.

El MINAG no acompañó en la reflexión programática y estratégica a INCAGRO. Al Proyecto le ha costado ganar
reconocimiento en el sector, pero aún es virtualmente desconocido en otras esferas del Estado. El propio MEF
como responsable de manejar el financiamiento, lo ve con simpatía pero con distancia. Lo prefiere respecto a otras
propuestas, pero no lo patrocina. La incomprensión puede atribuirse en parte a INCAGRO que optó por un
relativo aislamiento y buscó que no se le confundiera con otras formas de intervención tradicionales desde el
MINAG.

En diversas instancias del MINAG y del MEF, no hubo una adecuada comprensión sobre la naturaleza de
INCAGRO. Se le trató como un proyecto de ejecución y no como una institución especializada de financiamiento
de un sistema moderno de innovación tecnológica en el país.

No existió un canal comunicativo, fluido y estándar con el MINAG. Se han sucedido exigencias múltiples,
descoordinados y continuas para atender información de naturaleza reiterativa, burocrática y de discutible utilidad.
Esto ha distraído muchas energías y tiempo en un grupo humano limitado en número como es el de INCAGRO.

Ha sido difícil el entendimiento con las sucesivas direcciones del INIEA. Puede advertirse una rivalidad "no
declarada", aunque se ha podido trabajar fluidamente con las estaciones experimentales descentralizadas en la
ejecución de algunos subproyectos de investigación. Tampoco hubo suficiente comunicación con las otras OPD y
proyectos especiales del sector.

Durante diferentes períodos de la Fase I, INCAGRO estuvo expuesto a eventuales recortes en los niveles de
presupuesto programado y solicitado (recursos ordinarios administrados por el MEF). Los recortes de los fondos
comprometidos del Tesoro Público afectaron la disponibilidad de recursos de endeudamiento. Esta dificultad
retrasó los desembolsos a los subproyectos agudizando la sub-ejecución o ejecución tardía de sus actividades.




                                                       - 34 -

c. Factores generalmente sujetos al control de la Agencia Ejecutora.

Los mecanismos de planeamiento operativo fueron deficientes y no se logró una óptima articulación entre los
componentes y el sistema de seguimiento y evaluación técnico y financiero.            INCAGRO tardó en generar
instrumentos de gestión integrados y modernos, y un adecuado mecanismo de manejo de la información generada
por la ejecución de los subproyectos, proyectada a su Página Web. INCAGRO pudo acompañar los subproyectos
pero careció de fuerza y eficacia para presionarlos a cumplir los plazos de ejecución previstos.

La UCP tomó ventajas de una gestión discreta en el sentido de evitar compromisos adicionales, pero perdió
oportunidades para influir en los diversos actores del sistema incluyendo al propio sector público agrario.

El esfuerzo de ser una entidad ejecutora y al mismo tiempo formuladora de la propuesta de la Fase II siguiendo
todos los pasos y exigencias del BM y del SNIP, fue una tarea excesiva en el último año, pero que tuvo la virtud de
ayudar a sistematizar la experiencia.

d. Costos y financiamiento.

Al finalizar el Proyecto, el FTA había adjudicado 77% de lo presupuesto (33% de reducción en el caso de
subproyectos de Extensión y 4% en Investigación Adaptativa). En los concursos del 2003, se trasladaron recursos
del FTA al FDSE considerando que entre las propuestas presentadas a este último fondo, había alternativas más
promisorias. Como consecuencia, el FDSE acumuló 122% de ejecución respecto a lo presupuestado. El resultado
neto fue un aumento en la categoría de Fondos Competitivos de 5.9%.

Respecto a la categoría Consultorías, se ejecutó el 91.5%, pues consultorías inicialmente programadas con recursos
de endeudamiento para preparación de la segunda fase, fueron atendidas con fondos de la Donación Japonesa
TF052813 aprobada en marzo del 2004 (Policy and Human Resource Development Fund, PHRD).

Los Costos Recurrentes aumentaron 77% por la variación en la fecha de cierre del Contrato inicialmente
programada para el 2003-06-30 y posteriormente ampliada hasta el 2005-01-30, lo que determinó mayores gastos
operativos.

El saldo del préstamo no utilizado incluyó el monto total pendiente de desembolsos de los proyectos adjudicados en
el 2003 y del Huchuy Ayni 2004: US$ 883,996.

El nivel de ejecución promedio alcanzó el 98.6% por todas las fuentes de financiamiento. Se empleó el 85% de los
recursos de endeudamiento y 158% de recursos ordinarios. Las alianzas estratégicas ejecutaron 113% de lo
previsto.  Excluida la fuente de endeudamiento, el nivel de ejecución alcanzado al cierre fue 130% de lo
presupuestado.

Los aportes del Tesoro Público sobrepasaron lo establecido en el Contrato en aproximadamente US$ 810 mil. Los
aportes más significativos fueron dos créditos suplementarios: el primero con recursos ordinarios (US$ 436 mil),
destinado a los fondos competitivos del 2001 y ejecutado en su totalidad. El segundo asignado en el 2004, con
recursos de la CAF (US$ 92 mil de los cuales fueron ejecutados US$ 89 mil). Adicionalmente, se emplearon los
recursos de la donación del Gobierno Japonés TF052813 por US$ 442,540 para la ejecución de diversos estudios de
preparación de la segunda fase del Programa.



4. Sostenibilidad

En la medida en que el Programa continuará sus actividades, aún hay tiempo para reforzar la sostenibilidad de sus
resultados e impactos. La experiencia de la primera fase sugiere la necesidad de prestar especial atención a la
contratación por los productores de servicios nuevos o adicionales al margen de los subsidios de INCAGRO u otras
fuentes.  Una evidencia asociada es el ajuste entre el costo del servicio y las actividades fundamentales e



                                                        - 35 -

imprescindibles.

Los pagos efectuados por los productores clientes son reales, pero deben ser crecientes en relación al costo del
servicio. A su vez, el costo de participar en los concursos de INCAGRO debe corresponder tanto a la necesidad de
racionalizar recursos como al subsidio efectivo asignado.

Se ha logrado pocos avances en la cooperación entre subproyectos y en el trabajo en redes funcionales y prácticas
con fines específicos. Como consecuencia, no se ha podido captar interés de otros proyectos y esfuerzos que no
pasan por INCAGRO, pero que son parte fundamental del desarrollo del sistema.

Otro factor importante de impulso es el reconocimiento del éxito en las innovaciones, los planes de negocios y
experimentales como parte de un mecanismo permanente de emulación y cooperación.

A lo largo de este informe se ha dado cuenta de las debilidades institucionales que afectan a la producción y
difusión de conocimientos. El desarrollo institucional requiere de una masa crítica de profesionales pero también
de una cultura institucional.

Del lado del sector público, se demanda un compromiso de políticas permanente con la ciencia, tecnología e
innovación.



5. Desempeño del Banco y del Prestatario

INCAGRO ha tenido la característica de ser un proyecto innovador en sí mismo, reflexivo sobre sus fundamentos y
flexible en su accionar, ha sintonizado con los conceptos más avanzados en términos de roles público-privados,
promoción de mercados y desarrollo institucional, ha logrado labrar una imagen técnica, solvente y con una gestión
transparente.

Sin embargo, no se ha actuado consistentemente en la orientación al sistema de ciencia, tecnología e innovación,
promoviendo redes y encuentros de manera continua para crear masa crítica. Falta que los subproyectos asuman a
INCAGRO como colaborador antes que fiscalizador.

La sistematización y puesta en valor de la información que se produce presenta un considerable retraso. Como
parte de los problemas de información, no se ha logrado aún sistematizar las estructuras presupuestales de los
subproyectos a fin de disponer de una base de datos para la negociación y contribuir a la formación de precios en el
mercado de servicios.

Aún no se ha completado un sistema de información gerencial integrado como instrumento de gestión. Los planes
de ejecución anual han sido poco rigurosos, dejando demasiado espacio a la improvisación y afectando el
cumplimiento de ciertas normas de contratación. Esto ha dificultado el seguimiento de INCAGRO por parte del
MINAG y del BM.

Se ha hecho un insuficiente esfuerzo por lograr una comprensión colectiva en la UCP y digerir en conjunto
diversos temas. Hay tratamientos estancos de temas importantes y las unidades descentralizadas no han estado
involucradas en las grandes definiciones programáticas.

Los concursos de INCAGRO son más prolongados que los de otros fondos concursables. Esto obedeció al esfuerzo
del proyecto por formar capacidades como parte de este proceso. Sin embargo, aún deberá sistematizarse las
deficiencias del proceso para alcanzar un equilibrio entre tiempos y calidad. Tampoco se ha logrado "alinear" a los
subproyectos a los plazos de ejecución comprometidos.

El Banco Mundial y, en especial su Gerente de Proyecto, ha sabido acompañar y compartir la reflexión técnica del
proyecto proporcionando un adecuado retorno en relación con la experiencia de proyectos similares en otros países.
No siempre se pudo ajustar el enfoque productivista del BM con un enfoque más orientado al mercado del


                                                        - 36 -

Proyecto.

El Proyecto ha recibido atención del BM en términos administrativos, pero los tiempos de resolución de las
solicitudes de no objeción han sido erráticas y en algunos casos han perturbado la puesta en marcha de actividades
programadas o urgentes. El cambio de decisión en relación con el fideicomiso, creó serios problemas de gestión
tanto respecto a los subproyectos, a otras instancias de gobierno, como al uso de los recursos del préstamo.



6. Lecciones Aprendidas

Deberá hacerse más explícita la integración del conocimiento científico y tecnológico a los procesos de innovación.
Las actividades de financiamiento deben separarse de aquellas vinculadas tanto a la formulación de política como a
la ejecución de la investigación y el desarrollo tecnológico.

Los planes de negocio han evidenciado ser una herramienta adecuada para identificar las innovaciones más
promisorias en términos de mercado. Los planes son útiles para el diseño y para la gestión de los subproyectos,
permitiendo sustentar los servicios especializados requeridos. Son también un elemento clave de la sostenibilidad
futura de las innovaciones.

Una demanda diversificada debe ser atendida por una oferta también diversificada, especializada, funcional y de
calidad. Una oferta especializada y heterogénea exige mecanismos que hagan factible y eficiente su atención con
estrategias diferenciadas de financiamiento.

La institucionalidad prestadora de servicios es débil y en su mayor parte ha sido organizada para intermediar
donaciones y no como proveedores eficientes y rentables en términos de mercado. Se requiere profundizar el
cambio de paradigma y una reorientación - de las entidades oferentes y demandantes - hacia un enfoque
empresarial y de mercado, interesando a empresas privadas con fines de lucro, revisando los incentivos
relacionados con la apropiación y distribución de beneficios y derechos de propiedad sobre las innovaciones.

Las alianzas proporcionaron solidez y estabilidad a los servicios, pero han dificultado el empoderamiento de los
productores demandantes que no han liderado ni controlado el accionar de dichas alianzas. Su organización
debería crear incentivos para que el comportamiento de sus miembros se coordine, asegure y apunte hacía el éxito
de los subproyectos.

Los productores organizados están dispuestos a efectuar pagos por servicios a la innovación, conforme comprueban
los beneficios de las innovaciones. Uno de los impedimentos importantes para convertir las necesidades de los
productores en demanda efectiva es la falta de información.

Los niveles de cofinanciamiento y la forma de hacerlos efectivos debe considerar el grado de desarrollo del
mercado de servicios, y un incremento gradual hasta su pleno autosostenimiento (ello sería una clara señal,
también, del éxito en la prestación de un servicio de calidad).

El acceso a los mercados es condicionado por aspectos culturales, sociales y económicos particulares que en
algunos casos son causa y efecto de procesos de exclusión social. Para enfrentar esta situación se requiere
estrategias diferenciadas según las características de los productores.      Un caso especial son las poblaciones
indígenas andinas y amazónicas y las organizaciones de mujeres.

Para mejorar la calidad de los servicios se deben efectuar arreglos institucionales basados en un enfoque de
competencias regionales que garanticen una orientación por la demanda y la reducción de sus costos.

El sistema de seguimiento y evaluación de los subproyectos debe acompañar los procesos, aprendiendo de ellos y
retroalimentando los procedimientos de selección de propuestas. Esto se logra con una orientación por resultados
de los planes de negocios, servicios y experimentales.        Una orientación a la calidad debe asegurar que los




                                                         - 37 -

subproyectos se desarrollen ajustados con los contratos, las propuestas, los planes y las mejores prácticas.

La fiscalización de los fondos adjudicados se justifica por la escasez de los recursos, como por el carácter público
de los fondos que proporciona INCAGRO sobre los cuales se debe rendir cuentas a la sociedad. Pero, así como, se
fiscaliza y se sanciona el mal uso de los recursos, se debe reconocer y premiar a los mejores esfuerzos, fomentando
la emulación en el sistema.

El sistema de ciencia, tecnología e innovación se basa en el conocimiento apropiable y utilizable. Un medio para
acceder a ese conocimiento es la disposición de información y canales de comunicación entre la comunidad de
científicos e innovadores. INCAGRO puede y debe contribuir a crear una plataforma para ese sistema a partir de
los subproyectos que cofinancia.

Los cambios institucionales que están en operación en el sistema, requieren ser orientados por políticas que
alienten la incorporación de entidades privadas y una adecuada interacción con las instancias públicas. INCAGRO
puede contribuir al diseño y preparación en el sector agrario de capacidades para el fomento de inversiones
público-privadas en innovación tecnológica.



7. Comentarios de los Socios

Otros socios

En los últimos dos años se han efectuado talleres regionales de evaluación del avance de los subproyectos y de
planificación operativa anual. En estos eventos se ha recogido el punto de vista de las entidades ejecutoras y de las
organizaciones de productores clientes. Lo mismo viene ocurriendo en los procesos de cierre de los subproyectos.
Todas estas entidades han expresado su satisfacción por el diseño y enfoque del Proyecto; han elogiado los
concursos de fondos y su transparencia aunque han expresado su preferencia por procesos más acotados y ajustados
a las campañas agrícolas; han elogiado la estandarización de los sistemas de planeamiento operativo y reporte de
información aunque se han quejado por la dificultades en la operación de los nuevos programas informáticos.
INCAGRO cuenta con un alto nivel de reconocimiento, legitimidad y convocatoria.




                                                        - 38 -

- 39 -

                                   80°                                                  78°                                               76°                                    74°                                  72°
             0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0°

                                                                                                                                                                                  Rio Caqueta

                                                                                                                                                                         Rio



                                                                                                                                                                                   Putumayo

                                                      E C U A D O R                                                                                                                                         C O L O M B I A


                                                                                                                                                                    Rio
                                                                                                                                                                       Napo
            2°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2°




                       Zarumilla
                    TUMBES                                                                 Rio

                                                                                                                                                                                      IQUITOS
              Cancas    TUMBES                                                              Santiago                                                                                                                         Rio
                                                                                                                                 Pastaza
            4°      Mancora                                                                                                                                                                                                              Amazonas                                            4°
                                                                                                                                                             L O R E T O
                 El Alto              La Tina                                                                                 Rio                                                                                            RioYavari

                 Talara                                                        San
                                Ayabaca                                      Ignacio                                  Rio
                             P I U R A                                                   Oracuzar                                        Marañon
                          Sultana                                                    A
             Paita                 Chulucanas
                                               Huancabamba                            M                                                                                                                                         8       PROGRAM REGIONS
                          PIURA
                              1                                                        A                                                                          8                                                                     PAVED ROADS
                                                                         Jaen  Bagua    Z                                                                                Ucayali

            Bayovar                                                                      O                                                                                                                                              OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
                                                                  (Selva)
                                                                               Rio        N                  MOYOBAMBA                   Yurimaguas            Rio                                                                      RAILROADS
            6°                     Olmos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6°
                                                        CAJAMARCA                                   AJumbilla
                                                                            Chachapoyas                                                                                                                                                 AIRPORTS
                            LAMBAYEQUE                                    Cutervo  Marañon             S     Mendoza

                                                                                                                Tarapoto                                                                                                                PORTS
                                                  Chongoyape                                                                                                                                                                            RIVERS
                            CHICLAYO                   CAJAMARCA                                          7      S A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                             Pimentel                             (Sierra)                                     M A R T I N
                                                  CAJAMARCA                                                   Juanjui                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                    Bolivar
                                                    Magdalena
                                  Pacasmayo                                   4                                                                                                                                       PROGRAM REGIONS:
                                                                                                                   HuallagaRio
                                      Chicama                            Otuzco           Cajabamba                                                                                                                   1. Tumbes - Piura - Lambayeque
                                                                         L A L I B E R TA D                                        Tocache                                                                            2. Ancash - Lima - Ica
             8°                                                                        Santiago de Chuco                                                                                                                                                                                    8°
                                                                                                                                   Nuevo                                                                              3. Arequipa - Moquegua - Tacna
                                             TRUJILLO
                                                                                                                                                                       Pucallpa                                       4. La Libertad - Cajamarca (Sierra)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Huánuco - Pasco - Junín - Huancavelica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6. Ayacucho - Apurímac - Cusco - Puno - Madre de Dios

                                                                                                    Caraz                                                                                                             7. San Martín - Amazonas - Cajamarca (Selva)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8. Loreto - Ucayali
                                                                                    A N C A S H                                                Tingo María
                                                                                   Casma
                                                                                                         HUARAZ                        HUÁNUCO
                                                                                              Recuay                                                                             U C A Y A L Í
                                                                                                                    HUÁNUCO

            10°                                                            Huarmey                                                                                                                                                                                                          10°


                                                                                                            Goyllarisquizga                        P A S C O
                                                                                                                                          CERRO DE      Oxapampa                                                                                        B R A Z I L
                                                                                                                                          PASCO
                                                                                   Pativilca                                                             Villa Rica                             Rio
                                                                                                                 2                            La Merced   5
                                                                                         Huacho                                                                    Satipo

                                                                                                             L I M A                                 Palca              Apurimac

                                                                                                    Chancay                                     La Oroya                        Rio                Urubamba
                                                                                                                       Yangas                            J U N I N

                                                                                                        Callao                          Matucana           HUANCAYO                                                         M A D R E         D E        D I O S
             12°                                                                                        LIMA                                                                                                                                                                                12°
                                                                                                                                        Langa

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6         Rio
                                                                                                                                        Yauyos                                                                                               Madre        PUERTO
                  P       A         C        I        F                    I       C                                                                                Colcabamba
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Quillabamba                      de            MALDONADO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Dios
                                                                                                                                                               HUANCAVELICA
                                                                                                              Cerro Azul                            HUANCAVELICA                                  C U S C O
                                                                                                                                                                                            Santa Teresa                             Pillcopata
                                                                                                     San Vicente de Cañete                         Castrovirreyna            AYACUCHO                                                              Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ollantaytambo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Inambari
                        O         C        E          A                     N                                      Chincha Alta                                                                                      CUSCO    Paucartambo

                                                                                                                                  Pisco                                                                    ABANCAY
                                                                                                                  San Martin                                                 Andahuaylas

                                                                                                                                                  ICA
            14°                                                                                                                                                                           A P U R I M A C                                                                                   14°
                                                                                                                                             I C A              A Y A C U C H O               Chalhuanca                                                                            BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                            Palpa

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P U N O
                                                                                                                                                                                Puquio                                    Yauri
                                                      P E R U                                                                                          Nazca                                                                                    Azángaro


                   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Huancane

                                                                                                                                                  San Juan          Acari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Juliaca
                  AND EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lake
                                                                                                                                                                          Chala


            16°                                                                                                                                                                                                         3                                              Titicaca
                                                                                                                                                                                                A R E Q U I PA                                  PUNO
                                                                                                                                                                                                Pta.                                                                                       16°
                                                                                                                                                                                                Colorada              Yura


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AREQUIPA
                                          0       50              100          150       200            250                                                                                  Camaná                               MOQUEGUA                     Mazo       Desaguadero
                                                                         KILOMETERS                                                                                                                 Matarani                                                   Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mollendo                                                               Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MOQUEGUA
                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                                                                                                      Tarata
                              on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                            Ilo
OCTOBER                       judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                         T A C N A
                              acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                           Miculla

            18°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18°      DRBI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Boca del Rio       TACNA
       1999
                                       80°                                               78°                                                76°                               74°                                  72°                                     C H I L E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Arica        70°                                     62403

