Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10553-BR Type: (PCR)
JAMES, E   / X31756 / T9-057/ OEDD1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AMAZONAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2163-BR)
APRIL 22, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$) 1'
ArrraisalV/                                comiletionl/
US$1.00  =  Cr$114.26                        US$1.00  =  Cr$151.2
Cr$l.00  - US$0.00875                       Cr$1.00  =  US$0.0066
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PROJECT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS-AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
1/   The Brazilian Currency was changed from the CruQeiro (Cr$) to the
Cruzado (Cz$) in February 1986, at the rate of Cr$1,000 = Cz$1.
In January 16, 1989, the currency was changed to the Novo Cruzado
(NCz$) at the rate of Cz$1,000 = NCz$l. In March 1990, it was changed
back to the Cruzeiro (Cr$) at the rate of Cr$1 - NCz$ 1.
2/ As of December 31, 1981.
3/ As of December 31, 1990.



FOR O0FCIA*L USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washingtan, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of ODrectw-Geerwa
Opeateos Evaluatlmi
April 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Brazil
Amazonas Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 2163-BR)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled  "Project  Completion  Report  on  Brazil  -  Amazonas
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2163-BR)"n  prepared by the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CEPA-AM        Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Aqricola de Amazonas
(State Commission for Agricultural Planning)
CDF            Community Development Fund
CODEAGRO       Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario
(State Agricultural Development Company)
CODEAMA        Comisslo de Desenvolvimento Econ8mico do Estado de Amazonas
(Commission for the Economic De, -opment of the State of
Amazonas)
EMADE          Empresa Amazonense de Dende (Amazonas Oil Palm Company)
EMAIER-At      Empresa de AssistOncia T6cnica e Extens&o Rural do Estado de
Amazonas
(State Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA        Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisas AgropecuArias
(Brazilian Agricultural Biesearch Company)
.UNAI          Fundaq&o Nacional do fndio
(National Indian Foundation)
IERAM          Instituto de Educac&o Rural do Estado ee Amazonas
(Statt Institute for Rural Education)
IFEA/IPLAN     Ir.stituto de Planejamento Econ8mico e Social
(Institute for Economic and Social Planning)
ZTERAM         Instituto de Terras do Estado de Amazonas
(State Land Institute)
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
SEAIN          Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
(now DEAIN, International Affairs Department of the Ministry
of Economy)
SEPROR         Secretaria de Produglo Rural do Estad- de Amazonas
(State Secretariat of Rural Producti n)
SESAU          Secretaria de Safide do Estado de Amazonas
(State Secretariat of Health)
SUFRAMA        SuperintendAicia da Zona Franca de Manaus
(Superintendency for the Free Zone of Manaus)
TA             Technical Assistance
UEFAE-AM       Unidade Estadual de Pesquisas AgropecuArias no Estado de
Amazonas
(Agricultural Research Unit in the State of Amazonas,
part of EMBRAPA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AMAZONAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2163-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae No.
PREFACE                          .. . . . . i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.. . . . i.i
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . .   . . . .  . . 1
A.   Project Identity   .         .. . . . ... .1
B. Background .                     ..1
C.  Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . 2
D.   Project Design and Organization  ... .  .  .  .  .    .... 3
E.   Project Implementation   ........ .... ..... 4
Studies of Natural Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Land Tenure Regularization  . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Adaptive Research   ......  ..  ..  ..   ...  5
Rural Extension   .......  ..   .... .   5
Improved Seed Supply  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Marketing Services  ..        . .... ....... 6
Transport            .... . .. . 6
Telecommunications      .   . ... . . . .  .  .  .  . 6
Education       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    .    .    .  6
Health, Sanitation and Water Supply   . . . . . . . 6
Community Development Fund (CDF)  . . . . . . . . . 7
Smallholder Oil Palm Program  . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Project Administration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Project Risks   ......... .  .      .     ...      . 8
F.   Project Social and Economic Results  ...   ......   . 8
General ........... . . . ...                      . 8
Family Income   ......... . . . . . .   .   . .  9
Project Internal Rate of Return   . . . . . . . . 10
G.   Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Fiscal/Financial Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Environmental Aspects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Technical Aspects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
H.   Bank Performance   . . . ......               ......  12
I.   Borrower's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
J.   Project Relationship   . . ......           .  ...   .  13
K.   Consulting Services  ......  ..  ..   ...... .  13
L.   Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . 14



TABLE OF CO1TEPTS (Cont'd)
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . 15
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1   Related Bank Loans    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Table 2   Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Table 3   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   . 20
Table 4   Key Project Implementation Indicators   . . . . . 21
Table 5   Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . 23
Table 6   Project Results ............... . 24
Table 7   Status of compliance with Key Legal Covenants   . 25
Table 8   Use of Bank Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
ANNEX 1   Derivation of the Economic and Financial Rates of Return      31
MAP: IBRD 16251



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AMAZONAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
( LOAN 2163-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Re-ort (PCR) for the Amazonas
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2163-BR). Th,t Loan of US$26.4 million
wau approved on May 27, 1982, to help finance the implementation of this
project, the total cost of which was estimated at US$77.7 million at
appraisal. The Loan closed on December 31, 1990, after three one-year
extensions of the original closing date of December 31, 1987. Final
disbursements of loan proceeds took place on July 11, 1991.  US$24.5 million
was disbursed and US$1.9 million was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Country Department I in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region. Parts I
and III of the PCR are based on a Bank field visit in October 1990, the Staff
Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, a
mid-term review prepared by the State of Amazonas and other State studies,
Bank supervision reports, project correspondence, and internal Bank memoranda.
Part II of the PCR was prepared in mid-1991 by the State Secretariat for Rural
Production which was responsible for the coordination of the project.



- lii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AMAZONAS AGRlCQLTUBAL DEVELOPMENT P   9ECT
{LOAN 2163-SR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
obiect ives
1.        The Amazonas Agricultural Development Project was the first Bank
supported effort to promote sustainable and rational agriculture production
development in suitable areas of the state. The pro4ect included a rural
development program to assist existing rural residents in the riverine areas
of the Amazon, and a smallholder oil palm development program to establish a
pilot 1,800 hectares of a possible 5,000-hectare plantation in the Tefe
municipality. Both activities aimed at raising incomes and living standards
of small farmers, and at reducing the influx of rural residents to Manaus. In
light of the State's incipient institutional infrastructure and the limited
knowledge of its agricultural development potential, the project placed a
heavy emphasis on the strengthening of newly created institutions and on
studies and research to help meet project objectives, and to pave the way for
future development efforts in the State.
ImDlementation Experience
2.        The Amazonas Agricultural Development Project was approved in
May 1, 1982 signed in June, and became effective in November, 1982. The total
cost was estimated at US$77.7 million of which USS 0.4 million was for the
front--end fee, US$60.1 million for the rural development activities including
proje. administration, and US$17.2 million for the oil palm development
program. The Bank loan of US$26.4 million, which included the front-end fee,
was to finan-4 '00% of foreign costs and 33% of local costs, excluding taxes.
With the apj- 'al in 1983 of the Special Action Program applied to all Bank-
financed loara in Brazil, the Bank's financing rate was temporarily raised to
67% between January 1983 and March 1986. Until the closing of the loan in
December 1990, the percentage of Bank financing was further modified
maintaining an average of 50% of the entire project cost. The rural
development categories were financed by the Bank loan at 40% of expenditures,
while the smallholder oil palm develoomerl. -rogram was financed at 100% for
the for&'  costs and, for local cost.  : . t e of 70% between project year
(PY)4 *_ -6, 50% in PY7, and 40%    "s..  Ar-r ;.he withdrawal of Fe:.Cral
Government support in August 1988, c State Gove-nment was expected to
provide all counterpart funding. The oaiz closing date which was December 31,
1987, was extended three times before the lsa. finally closed on December 31,
1990. The last loan disbursement was made in July 1991.



- iv -
3.        By July 1991, disbursements had reached US$24.5 million, or about
93% of the loan amount of US$26.4 million and US$1.9 million was canceled.
The final project cost was US$48.3 million; of which 51% was financed by the
Bank compared to the appraisal estimate of 34%; Federal funding amounted to
US$17.7 million or only 34% of appraisal estimate; while State funds, not
contemplated a- appraisal, reached US$6.1 million or 13% of total cost.
Results
4.        Mainly because of the failure to fully meet the objectives of the
rural development program and to satisfactorily complete the oil palm program,
the overall project results have to be c--sidered unsatisfactory.  The number
of direct agricultural beneficiaries undk. the rural development program was
64% of the appraisal estimate (about 6,040 compared to an appraisal estimate
of 9,500). Average family incomes of project beneficiaries did improve, but,
at US$3,630 it was less than the appraisal estimate of US$6,118. However, the
available data indicates that the appraisal estimate of pre-project income in
1982 was much higher than what really prevailed in the project area, and a
comparison in percentage terms between the pre-project situation and tne
incomes received as a result of the project, suggest a three-fold increase in
family income. Yields for the major crops were much less than the appraisal
estimate and, in fact, did not show an improvement over the pre-project
situation. However, success was achieved in crol diversification, as farmers
replaced labor-intensive and low earning jute and malva (Urena lobata)
cultivation with highly profitable fruit trees.
5.        The project was successful in improving the social
infrastructure and services through schools, health posts, roads and telephone
network systems, and the training of health care workers. Except for the seed
distribution and marketing components, an average of 90% of the appraisal
targets were met at less than half of the costs. The project was also
successful in maintaining the rural population in its municipalities, while
the population of the other rural municipalities of the state experienced
massive out-migration to Manaus, in search of employment and access to social
amenities.
6.        In the smallholder oil palm development procram, 1,502 ha of the
1,800 ha of oil palm estimated at appraisa' has been planted, but the
administrative and processing center has nrot yet been completed because of
inordinate implementation delays and inadequate funding.
7.        The knowledge about the region's natural resource potential and the
development experience of the technical and managerial project staff increased
substantially under the project. However, the improvement of the State
government's capacity to plan and execute similar projects in other parts of
the state was compromised by frequent political interference in the operation
of the various project activities and inadequate counterpart funding.
8.        Project Internal Rate of Return.  As a result of frequent staff
turnover and political interference the successive evaluation units failed in
providing time series data on production, yields and prices received by
farmers, and it is not possible to re-calculate an internal rate of return for



v 
the rural development program. However, thi available cross sectional data on
yields and income suggest that the actual rates of return for the -ural
development program are significantly lower than the appraisal estimate of 21%
to 50% for the financial rate of return, and 21% for the economic rate of
return, and may not exceed the opportunity cost of capital.
9.        Since industrial investments for the smallholder oil palm proaram
have not been completed, production has not started and an empirical rate of
return cannot be calculated. However, if it i- assumed that the
administrative and processing center would be completed within the cost and
time frame as well as the production development pattern indicated in Annex 1,
the financial and economic rates of return of the factory would be about 3%
and 6%, respectively, if its current size is maintained; and 7% and 9%,
respectively, if it extended to 5,000 ha. The appraisal estimates for the
economic and financial rates of return were 14% at full development, and had
included income received from foodcrops that the smallholders were expected to
grow. These re-estimates, which do not take into account income from
foodcrops, are much lower than expected rates of return and reflect the
drastic reductien in oil palm prices in the last few years, and -he delays
experienced in thc i.aplementation of the component.  They also suggest the
marginal economic and financial viability of the component. If all
investments made up to 1990 would be considered sunk costs, the financial and
economic rates of return would be 20% and 27%, respectively, if the current
factory size is maintained; and 18% and 22%, respectively, if it is extended
to 5,000 ha. This indicates that it could be justified to consider completing
the agro-industrial complex if the State Government: (i) were, contrary to
experience, able to find the funds and efficiently complete and operate the
complex; and (ii) could ensure an effective management and organizational
arrangement.
Proiect Sustainability
10.       While the sustainability of the rural development program is
likely, the sustainability of the oil palm program under the current
organization and public sector management is uncertain.
11.       Fiscal/Financial AsiPects.  Concerning the oil palm program, the
completion of the industrial investments would, after investing some
additional US$5 million of public funds. enable a reasonable financial return,
whether the size of the plantation re .;ns at 1,800 hectares or expands to
5,000 hectares. The potential annuei net profit would be about US$1.2 million
and US$2.7 million respectively, and annual State Government earnings in
increased taxes would be US$0.6 million and US$1.3 million respectively. The
potential benefits would be sufficient to replant new areas after the end of
the 20-year productive period and to distribute divi. nds to shareholders.
These projections assume, a) the availability of funds for completing the
investments after federal and Bank withdrawal from financing, and,
b) efficient completion and effective management of the oil palm complex.
Experience under the project suggests that both timely funding and efficient
management is not likely to materialize under public sector ownership and
management.



- vi -
12.       Regarding the rural development program, the direct benefits in
terms of private and public income are slower ir materializing than expected.
However, with time and considering the moderate size of public service systems
established under the project, the revolving nature of the Community
Development Fund and the invoma potential from the tree crops planted, _he
project's rural development activities are considerci sustainable, both from a
fiscal and financial point of view.
13.       Environmental Aspects.  One of the main indirect benefits of the
project will be an enhanced recognition and respect of the environment in the
project area, as a result of: (i) the confinement of developmental activities
to communities located in already cleared land or in varzeas (floodplains)
(ii) deep awareness of the importance of ecological protect    b by  roject
beneficiaries, who call themselves "caboclos", a mixture of .  rindions and
Nordestinos; and (iii) adequate monitori- g of environmental protect o.n by
State Authorities. In the oil palm development program, the land c'eared has
been replanted solely with palm trees, and the factory will include filtering
equipment to avoid water pollution. The project has demonstrated that
developmental activities can be pursued without negative effects on the
environment and the indigenous population.
14.       Technical Asnects.  Under the ruraI development program, few new
technologies have been implemented, and they were introduced only after
careful monitoring by research technicians on their effectiveness and
sustainability. The. only risk to technical sustainability is in the oil palm
plantation, where the palm trees are subject to potential pest and disease
attacks which could reduce future oil production. Among these, the most
dangerous is a virus called Spirrot, which kills the palm tree, and for which
no curative measure has yet been found. Some cases found in the Tefe
plantation have been immediately eradicated by burning the contaminated trees.
Findings and Lessons Learned
15.       The following were the main lessons learned form the implementation
of this project:
(a) The wide scope of the project and the complexity and distinct
nature of each of the two programs of this -'-oject suggest that the
rural development and the oil palm programs should have been
implemented under separate projects. If such an amalgam is
unavoidable, the ins*'tutional and administrative arrangements must
distinguish between ',, two programs.
(b) Although the smallholder oil palm development program was only a
pilot, first slice of a larger program, its implementation and
financing should have involved the private sector from the
beginning. Public sector ownership and management proved to b -e
presented major constraints to the successful implementation of
this program.
(c) The community-based rural development approach and the
revolving fund arrangement for the provision of credit adopted by



- vii -
the project, have proven to be effective and justainable tools for
improving production, incomes and the social amenities for ruxal
people without access to a formal or informal rural financial
system.
(d) The project experience ouggest that agricultural development both
large- and small-scale can take place without significant
detrimental effects on the environmeat if properly planned and
implemented.
(e) The pioneering nature of the project, the diversity of programs
components and the incipient management capacity of the atate
institutions, necessitate a more intense and multi-disciplinary
supervision than what was actually provided by the Bank.
(f) The mid-term review of the project should have conducted a more
rigorous analysis of the emerging economic, institutional and
financial problems of the project, and more clearly identified
viable solutions.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AMAZONAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2163-BR)
PART I.   PROJEC'' REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect IdentitY
Project Name: Amazonas Agricultural Development Project
Loan No.:      2163-BR
RVP Unit:     Latin Am.rica and Caribbel Region
Country Department .
Country:       Brazil
Sector:       Agriculture
B. Proiect Background
1.        In spite of the vastness of the State of Amazonas (1.5 million km2,
or about one-fifth the size of Brazil), the State's population is limited to 2
million, or 3% of Brazil's population.  The absence of a significant internal
market and the huge distance to external markets result in high economic cost
of both agricultural and industrial production. In addition to these frontier
characteristics, residuals of the colonial past left traits in the social and
economic system of the State which conditioned the development of the State's
economy and slowed its full integration into '-he national economy.
2.        In spite of its enormous agricultural development potential, 75% of
the State's GDP is provided by services: banks, hotels, wholesale and retail
businesses, all catering to the thousands of tourists who flock to Manaus
attracted by nature and fiscal incentives in the form of duty free allowances.
One of the effects of this artificial fiscal environment is that, mainly due
to rural migration, Manaus' population has soared from 284,000 in 1970 to
1,200,000 in 1990, creating enormous urbanization problems in the State
capital.
3.        The Federal Government began to take a closer interest in the State
of Amazonas only in the 70's, both for strategic reasons (the protection of
the western and northern border of Brazil), and to avoid the
internationalization of the Amazon basin then proposed by foreign ecological
lobbies. Following extensive discussions within Brazil and between the
Government and the Bank, the State proposal for the selective agricultural
development of the Amazon basin in pre-soelected areas was accepted both by the
Federal Government and the Bank.



- 2-
C. Proiect Obiectives and Descriotion
4.        The project followed the Federal and State Government policy of
selective agricultural development in predetermined suitable areas. Its
general objectives were to promote the diversification of the State's economy
through sustainable agricultural development and the rational and selective
agricultural utilization of the State's land resources, and to increase
regional food supply and reduce rural-urban migration. It was the first Bank-
supported operation in the state of Amazonas and included both a rural
development and an oil palm development program. The area selected for the
rural development activities covers 16,000 square kilometers of the lower
Amazon basin, with two municipalities, Careiro and Manacapuru, across the
river from Manaus, and three Municipalitiee, Urucara, Parintins, and
Barreirinha, located near the border with the State of Para. Through a small
(1,800 hectares) pilot scheme, the oil palm program was seen as a first step
in a potentially extensive tree crop development program in the upper Solim8es
municipality of Tefe, located 600 kilometers upstream from Manaus.   Both
programs sought to assist the existing rural population in the riverine Amazon
areas by increasing food production in the floodlands, and promoting
employment and income opportunities through tree crop cultivation in the
uplands, including oil palm cultivation in the ¶!efe region. The project
interventions focused on relatively limited areas considered representative of
most of the already settled parts of the State and addressed both technical
and institutional constraints to development.
5.        The specific project objectives were to: (i) raise the income and
living standards of some 9,500 small-farm families operating, with family
labor, farms under 100 ha; (ii) increase food production to supply the rapidly
growing urban population; (iii) promote a sustainable and rational development
of agricultural production mainly through increased productivity, gradual
introduction of new crops or varieties, and improved production systems;
(iv) improve production support and social infrastructure and services; and
(v) improve the Government's capacity to plan and execute similar projects in
other parts of the State.
6.        The main project components were:
(a) Aaro-ecoloaical Zoning and studies of natural resources;
(b) Aaricultural Development, including land tenure
regularization, adaptive agricultural research, rural
extension, improved seed supply and product marketing
services;
(c) Physical Infrastructure, including storage facilities and
telecommunication and transport facilities;
(d)  Pilot Oil Palm Program, including an initial 1,800 ha five-
year time-elice of a larger plantation with small-scale farmer
participation and an oil processing factory;



- 3 -
(a) Social activities, such as education, health, sanitation, and
community development; and
(f) Project manaaement, including coordination, monitoring and
evaluation.
7.        The peculiarities of the large region with its extensive
communication and transport problems, multiform river transport and seasonal
flooding requires a well-organized project organization and service systems.
To reduce the dependency of the project on a sophisticated management system,
the project was designed to promote farmers' organizations in each of the
existing 150 communities in the project area and most of the beneficiaries
were expected to be members of such organizations.
D. Project Design and Organization
8.        Although designed as a rural development scheme, the project
combined rural development and agro-industrial activities. It included a
pilot 1,800 hectare public sector owned and managed oil palm development
scheme which was to be followed by private sector investment in an additional
5,000 hectare plantation development. The combination of these two quLte
distinctive components under one project proved to be difficult for both the
Borrower and the Bank and is partially responsible for the limited success of
the oil palm development component.
9.        The project was competently prepared and the timing was favorable
because it was one of the first projects to reflect the emerging ecological
awareness in the country and in the Bank. The State adopted a new
agricultural policy based on sustainable development in pre-selected zones and
the Bank employed the experience acquired in the first-generation Northeast
Rural Development Program. During preparation, the originally proposed scope
and targets of the project were reduced to reflect the physical and human
resource constraints of the State, particularly the enormous distances and the
incipient transport and public administrative system. The project design
included various innovative features such as, ecological zoning and community-
based organization of production and marketing.
10.       Overall project coordination was the responsibility of the State
Secretariat of Rural Production (SEPROR), which delegated responsibility for
the day-to-day monitoring and coordination activities of the rural
development program to the State Commission for Agricultural Planning (CEPA-
AM). The responsibility for the daily operation of the smallholder oil palm
program was delegated to the Amazonas Oil Palm Company (EMADE). Both State
institutions coordinated their activities through a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU). Decision making arrangements within each executing entity was
decentralized by creating strong regional offices in each of the
municipalities. These measures had a beneficial effect during project
execution, as they paved the way to integrated action by these entities and
facilitated effective working relations among their staff, both at the central



-4-
level in Manaus and in the regional offices. They also helped to keep the
administrative costs of the project at reasonable levels, in spite of large
geographical distances between the project sites and the administrative
centers.
11.      At the same time, the implementation of the oil palm program by a
public sector entity and the lack of administrative and financial autonomy by
the coordinating PCU had detrimental effects on project execution.
E. Proiect Imglementation
12.      The Amazonas Agricultural project was approved in May 1982, signed
in June, and became effective in November 1982. During the first two years,
project implementation did not progress as anticipated mainly as a result of
the extreme weakness of all institutions involved and the high turnover of
staff, specially at top managerial levels. As a result, the Bank considered
closing the loan in December 1984. However, between December 1984 and August
1988, project implementation improved as a result of: (i) the nomination of a
dynamic and competent project coordinator who established community-specific
objectives and targets and introduced a monitoring system which followed
implementation progress and identified corrective actions by management;
(ii) improved financial support from the Federal Government; and, (iii) a
decline in political interference in management at the State level-V. After
August 1988, project performance deteriorated because of increasing funding
problems which resulted from the Federal Government's financial withdrawal
from the project and from fiscal problems at the state level. Frequent
changes in the administration at the state and project levels contributed
further to substantial implementation delays of the project, especially of its
oil palm programg/. The loan, which was to have been implemented over a
five-year period, was extended three times on the basis of assurances by the
State to provide the needed counterpart funds. However, the State failed to
meet its funding commitment and the resulting paralysis of project
implementation led to the closure of the loan in December 1990.
13.      The Studies of Natural Resources component, aimed at better
identifying the natural resource potential of the project area in order to
guide and support future efforts of production development, flood forecasting,
the preservation of the ecological equilibrium and measurement of agro-
ecological changes in the area. These objectives were to be met by: (a) the
preparation of maps showing topography, agricultural potential, soils,
geomorphology and vegetation; and (b) the preparation of hydrological maps of
the varzea (floodplain) areas, including the establishment of 5 hydro-
1/ Political interfereneo in project mnagemes  waspvasive, eopeclUy in: O project monitorin and ev tion (swcesive SEPROR
Secretaries did not sufficiently support then activities which were disbanded a the end of 194, in spite of repeated recommendations by
supervision misions to the conury); and, Oi) seed production and mArketing (the entiy responsible for then two components the State
Agricultural Development Company, CODEAGRO, had been consistently used by the State's political appantu for electoral purpos).
It Excessive turnover of senior saff hak beena sgificant conaint to satisfaetory project implementation. During the eight-year
implementation, the project had eight SEMROR Secretaries, ten General Coordinators of CEPA-AM, nd wven Prsidents of EMADE.



-5-
climatological observation stations. The preparation of the maps met or
exceeded the appraisal estimates except for the agricultural potential maps
which only reached 40% of the appraisal target. In fact, the executing
agency, the Commission for the Study of Economic Development of the State of
Amazonas (CODEAHA), produced more topographical, soil, and geomorphological
maps than originally planned at only 38% of estimated cost. However, the 5
hydro-climatological stations were not built.
14.       The Land Tenure Regularization component aimed at legalizing the
status of land occupied by project beneficiaries, thereby improving security
of tenure and access to institutional credit. The component was efficiently
executed by the State Land Institute (ITERAM), which distributed 6,786
temporary titles, 5,906 occupation titles, and 4,410 final land titles
(representing 51%, 153% and 78%, respectively, of the targets set at
appraisal). About 2,580 km2 of land, which represented 73% of the appraisal
estimate, were legally demarcated. The above accomplishments were reached at
US$3.3 million or 45% of the appraisal cost.
15.       The Adaptive Research component supported a five-year research
program prepared by the State Research Unit (UEPAE-AM) and the State Rural
ExtensLon Company (EMATER-AM), by concentrating on improvement of cultivation
practices for the main crops of small-scale farmers. The component has been
successful in identifying improved varieties of rice, maize and beans
developed for small farmer cultivation in the project area; and after the
elimination of the State Agricultural Development Company (CODEAGRO) in 1988,
in multiplying and distributing seeds. The major contribution of this
component has been the distribution of large numbers of fruit tree seedlings
(guarana - Paullli.a cupana, cupuacuu - a variety of palm, and graviola -
soursop) in the municipalities of Urucara, Barreirinha and Parintins, thus
contributing significantly to the increase in farm income. Accomplishments
under this component exceeded the physical targets established at appraisal
and they were reached at only 44% of appraisal costs.
16.       The Rural Extension component aimed at improving and expanding the
extension services to the community or village level through intensive staff
training, establishment of observation and demonstration plots, and assistance
in farm management and farmer training. EMATER-AM which was responsible for
the component, improved its performance substantially during the execution of
the project, but among all the executing agencies, lt suffered the most from
erratic financing. The extension service strengthened the project's rural
communities mainly through active training of its members and an intensive
exchange of experience through mutual inter-farm visits. Over 6,000 families
benefitted over a 7-year period (64% of appraisal estimate) at a cost of USS
5.1 million (43% of appraisal).
17.       The XM2roved Seed SuDDlV component assisted CODEAGRO in developing
a pilot program for improved seed supply through support for training of
technical staff, additional seed storage facilities, and seed production. The
Bank reluctantly accepted the inclusion of a seed production plant on the
outskirts of Manaus which beeame defunct in a short time. Equipment from this



-6-
it was later transferred to the project area of Manacapuru. About 50% of
the estimate of quantity of seeds (20% for rice, 36% for millet, and 84% for
beans) has been produced and the quality of seeds and the timing of
distribution (mostly during electoral campaigns) have been deficient. With
the help of regional staff of UEPAE and EMATER-AM, the responsibility for seed
production han now been transferred to selected project farmers. The
Marketinq Services component, which was also executed by CODEAGRO, sought to
stimulate the development of competing private marketing channels, while
improving small farmer access to official credit. These two important targets
were not met, and the project beneficiaries remain dependent upon a few
intermediaries. Only communities which benefitted from the Rural Community
Fund were ablc, for the first time, to achieve marketing independence.
18.       The Transjcrt component aimed at facilitating farm communities'
access to key social and agricultural services and at improving transport
conditions for farm inputs and outputs.  The construciion of new tracks, the
upgrading of existing tracks and the rehabilitation of feeder roads reached
78%, 125% and 44%, respectively, of the appraisal estimates, at a cost of
US$5.5 million or 45% of the appraisal estimate.
19.       The Telecommunications component provided telephone connections to
68 isolated or distant communities through the installation of public pay
phones (130% of appraisal estimate), and expanded the inter-urban telephone
system in all seven project municipalities (233% of appraisal) at a cost of
US$0.9 million or 88% of the appraisal estimate.
20.       The Education component was designed to support improvements in the
State's primary education facilities and non-formal and adult education in the
rural project areas. At project completion, 92 schools had been constructed
(66% of the appraisal target), and 20 schools had been upgraded (80% of the
appraisal target). The puBlication of primary school curricula and teaching
manuals reached 100% of the appraisal targets of 4,000 ard 2,000,
respectively. The education component has been efficiently executed by the
State Rural Education Institute (IERAM), whose educational and managerial
methods (recommended by Dank supervision missions) are now being extended to
other parts of Amazonas and used as a model in owner states.
21.       The Health. Sanitation and Water Supplv component aimed at
improving the quality of primary health care services through the colntinuous
training of health care personnel and construction of health posts. "he
component also aimed at improving sanitation services by establishing sanitary
installatione and small-scale water supply and purification systems. Ninety-
one health posts were built and 121 health agents and 111 midwives were
trained, representing 152%, 202% and 85%, of the respective appraisal
estimate. Six hundred fifty sanitary installations, 23 small scale water
supply, and 3 water purification systems were built, representing 65%, 46% and
30%, respectively, of the appraisal targets. Because of poor management,
health posts were frequently deprived of suppliee and health agents of their
salariee. As a result, the effectiveness of the health component was limited
and the Bank discontinued the financing of this otherwise important activity
in May 1989.



-7-
22.       The Community DeveloDment Fund (CDF), the first one in Bank-
financed rural development projects in Brazil was facilitated by the rural
population's isolation in remote areas distant from urban centers and their
lonq tradition of community-based social and work organizations. It was
prepared by CEPA-AM in close cooperation with all entities involved and its
main features includedt (i) to have the CDF managed by a commission at the
municipality level, chaired by the Prefeito, and including representatives of
the communities and the entities represented in the municipality; (ii) to
provide CDF funds strictly on a loan basis rather than making grants; and
(iii) to denominate the value of the sub-loans and repayments in terms of bean
equivalents. As a result of long delays in obtaining legal clearances for
this scheme from the Bank and the State Attorney General, it was operational
only in 1988 and 1989 and was confined to the municipalities of Parintins,
Barreirinha and Urucara. Only US$0.2 million or 17% of appraisal estimates
were applied to the Fund. In spite of its short implementation period, the
component had a positive impact on project beneficiaries. Most of the
investments requested were for small motors to pump water from the river,
cassava flour mills, and powerboats to transport goods and people to the
market towns. The greatest achievement of this component has been the
maintenance of the system's financial integrity through high repayments and
the freeing of the participating communities from monopolistic intermediaries
(reoatAo), thus allowing them direct access to urban markets and increasing
their revenues.
23.       The Smallholder Oil Palm Program executed by the public entity
EMADE, was planned in great detail. The project was expected to demonstrate
the viability of tree crop schemes including production by smallholder out-
growers, so that private sector initiatives would consider participation in
the later expansion of the scheme or in new tree crop development projects.
The timetable was tight and was conceived as a first time-slice of a larger
5,000 hectare oil palm nucleus estate in Tefe. The plan contemplated planting
of the 1,800 hectares between project years 2 and 5; completion of the oil
mill construction in year 5; and first harvest in year 6 by approximately 350
well-trained smallholders. Meeting these targets would have required timely
financing, management and a rigorous adherence to the sequence and timing of
agricultural and industrial tasks.
24.       Because of management and financing problems, implementation lagged
substantially behind the established targets and was confined to: (a) planting
of 1,430 hectares (an additional 470 hectares may be planted before the end of
1991), over a period of 9 years instead of 4; increasing expenditures for
planting to a level exceeding the original cost estimate for the complete
plantation by 22%; (b) advancing the procurement of the oil mill to the
delivery stage; and (c) the training of a competent nucleus of plantation
managers and workers. The first draft of bidding documents for the factory
was received by the Bank on March 19, 1986, and the final "no objection" telex
was sent by the Bank on March 20, 1989, after the Federal Government had
already withdrawn from project financing. However, if the bidding had been
completed in a reasonable time, federal funds would have been available when



-8-
needed, and the factory would have been built prior to loan closing. The
State plans to complete this component although the justification for doing so
is questionable unless the investments already made are considered sunk costs,
and the unresolved organizational and management problems of the company
(including the role of the smallholders) are successfully resolved.
25.       The Proiect Administration was plagued by high staff turnover,
frequent political interference, inadequate project financing, and by
coordinating problems caused by some powerful executing entities. It
performed best between 1985 and 1988, when it carried out a community-based
monitoring system. In spite of difficulties, the monitoring system has been
continued by successive General Coordinators of CEPA-AM and has brought about
a certain continuity in project coordination, but it failed to produce
quantitative information on project accomplishments and impact.
26.       Proiect Risks.  The appraisal team identified six risks, of which
three became actual constraints: (i) the State's institutional deficiencies;
(ii) the technical production risks due to incomplete knowledge of operational
parameters in the project area; and, (iii) the failure to implement the oil
palm development program in a timely manner. On the other hand, three other
identified risk factors proved irrelevant: (i) the danger of floods, because
the low varzea lands, where farming systems are adapted to flooding, and the
uplands (terra firme), are rarely flooded; (ii) the environment, because the
choice of project beneficiaries was made after ecological zoning was carried
out; beneficiaries had been allotted sufficient cleared land and had no need
for excessively extensive farming systems, and project beneficiaries have
proven, without exception, to be respectful of the environment; and, (iii) the
presence of Amerindians, because the project area was devoid of indigenous
population. The only incident which occurred in the oil palm plantation
concerned a dispute between neighbors over compensation for fallen trees,
which was peacefully resolved between EMADE and the National Indian
Foundation (FUNAI).
F.    Proiect Social and Economic Results
27.       General.  Mainly because of the failure to fully meet the
objectives of the rural development program and to satisfactorily complete the
oil palm program in physical, organizational and institutional terms, the
overall project results have been unsatisfactory. The project fell short of
the appraisal targets for the number of beneficiaries and family income.
However, the available data indicates that the appraisal estimate of pre-
project income in 1982 was much higher than what actually existed in project
area at the time, and a comparison between the pre-project and post-project
weighted average income suggest an increase of about 350%.



- 9 -
FAMILY INCOME
(USS)
PRE-PROJECT    1987     1987 AS % OF PRE-PROJECT
Appraisal Estimate8/
(Weighted Average)  1,900         6,118               322
Actual Estimate4':
Barreirinha     648          1,774               274
Careiro        1,063         2,359               222
Manacapuru      825          3,544               429
Parintins       679          3,968               589
Urucara        1,646         3,811               232
Weighted
Average      1,041         3,630               349
W/ Appaisal income etiates include high value items, such as meat, milk and eggs.
b/ As a result of insfficient data, the actual income figures do not include the high value items. 'hese do exist in most of ptoject
communities, and if they had been included in the income computations, would have resulted in higher incomes.
28.       It was estimated at appraisal that the project would increase food
production through increased productivity, gradual introduction of new crops
and improved varieties and production systems. A comparison of the pre-
project, appraisal and actual productivity levels of the major crops indicates
that the project did not succeed in increasing yields. The introduction of
new varieties and the improvement of the marketing system were minimal.
CODEAGRO failed in ensuring adequate distribution of improved seeds and in
improving the marketing system for farmers in isolated areas. Isolated
farmers, particularly in Barreirinha and Parintins, remained dependent on a
few oligopolistic middlemen, which resulted in low farm-gate prices and, in
certain cases, unsold produce. However, substantial progress was made in crop
diversification, as farmers replaced the labor-intensive and low earning jute
and malva (Urena lobata) cultivation with highly profitable fruit trees.
PRODUCTIVITY LEVEL OF MAJOR CROPS
(ton/ha)
ACTUAL AS %
OF APPRAISAL
CROP               PRE-PROJECT    APPRAISAL         ACTUAL        ESTIMATE
Cassava (Flour)          4.0           3.0            1.8            60
Banana                  10.0           8.6            8.3            97
Beans                     1.0          0.8            0.6            75
Rice                      1.5          2.0            1.5            75
Vegetables               13.5          8.6            5.9            69
Jute                     1.1           1.2            1.1            92
Malva                     1.5          1.8            1.5            83
Guaran&                  0.2           0.3            0.2            67



- 10 -
29.       The rural development program was successful in improving social
infrastructure and services through, schools, health posts, roads and
telephone network systems, and the training of health care workers. Except
for the seed distribution and marketing components, an average of 90% of the
appraisal targets were met at less than half of the costs. The program was
also successful in maintaining the rural population in it's municipalities,
while the rural population of the other municipalities of the state
experienced massive out-migration to Manaus, in search of employment and
access to social amenities.
30.       In the smallholder oil palm development iproaram, 1,502 ha of the
1,800 ha of oil palm estimated at appraisal has been planted, but the
administrative/processing center has not yet been completed as a result of
inadequate funding and viable organizational and institutional arrangements
for its operation need to be determined.
31.       The stock of knowledge about the region's natural resource
potential and the development experience of the technical and managerial
project staff, increased substantially under the project. However, the
improvement of the State government's capacity to plan and execute similar
projects in other parts of the state was compromised by frequent political
interference in the operation of the various project activities and inadequate
counterpart funds.
32.       Proiect Internal Rate of Return.  As a result of constant staff
turnover and political interference (para. 12) the successive evaluation units
failed in providing time series data on production, yields and prices, and it
is not possible to re-calculate an internal rate of return for the rural
development program. However, the available cross sectional data on yields
and income (paras. 27-28) suggest that the actual rates of return for the
rural development program are significantly lower than the appraisal estimate
of 21% to 50% for the financial rate of return, and 21% for the economic rate
of return, and may not exceed the opportunity cost of capital.
33.       Since industrial investments for the smallholder oil Dalm prooram
have not been completed, production has not started and an empirical rate of
return cannot be calculated. However, if it is assumed that the
administrative and processing center would be completed within the cost and
time frame,as well as the production development pattern indicated in Annex 1,
the financial and economic rates of return of the factory would be about 3%
and 6%, respectively, if its current size is maintained; and 7% and 9%,
respectively, if it extended to 5,000 ha. The appraisal estimates for the
economic and financial rates of return were 14% at full develcpment, and had
included income received from foodcrops that the smallholders were expected to
grow. These re-estimates, which do not take into account income from
foodcrops, are much lower than expected rates of return and reflect the
drastic reduction in oil palm prices in the last few years, and the delays
experienced in the implementation of the component. They also suggest the
marginal economic and financial viability of the component. If all
investments made up to 1990 would be considered sunk costs, the financial and



- 11 -
economic rates of return would be 20% and 27%, respectively, if the current
factory size is maintained; and 18% and 22%, respectively, if it is extended
to 5,000 ha. This indicates that it could bo justified to consider completing
the agro-industrial complex if the State Government: (i) were, contrary to
experience, able to find the funds and efficiently complete and operate the
complex; and (ii) could ensure an effective management and organizational
arrangement.
G. Prolect Sustainability
34.       While the sustainability of the rural development program is
likely, the sustainability of the oil palm development program under current
organizational and public sector management arrangement is uncertain.
35.       Fiscal/Financial Aseects.  Concerning the oil palm program, the
completion of the industrial investments would, after investing some
additional US$5 million of public funds, enable a reasonable financial return,
whether the size of the plantation remains at 1,800 hectares or expands to
5,000 hectares. The annual net profit would be US$1.2 million and US$2.7
million respectively, and annual State Government earnings in increased taxes
would be US$0.6 million and US$1.3 million, respectively. The benefits would
be sufficient to replant new areas after the end of the 20-year prodactive
period and to distribute dividends to shareholders. These projections assume
the availability of public state funds to complete the oil palm investment and
an effective management of the oil palm complex, both of which may not
materialize under public sector ownership and management.
36.       Regarding the rural development program, the direct benefits in
terms of private and public income are slower in materializing than expected.
However, with time and considering the moderate size of public service systems
established under the project, the revolving nature of the Community
Development Fund and the income pote.tial from the tree crops plasnted, the
project's rural development activities are considered sustainable, both from a
fiscal and financial point of view.
37.       Environmental Aspects.  One of the main indirect benefits of the
project will be an enhanced recognition and respect of the environment in the
project area, as a result of: (i) the confinement of developmental activities
to communities located in already cleared land or in varzeas; (ii) deep
awareness of the importance of ecological protection by project beneficiaries,
who call themselves "caboclos", a mixture of Amerindians and Nordestinos; and
(iii) adequate monitoring of environmental protection by State authorities.
In the oil palm development program, the land cleared has been replanted
solely with palm trees, and the factory will include filtering equipment to
avoid water pollution. The project has demonstrated that developmental
activities can be pursued without negative effects on the environment and the
indigenous population.
38.       Technical Aspects.  Under the rural development program, only few
new technologies have been adopted and they were introduced only after careful
monitoring by research technicians. The only risk to technical sustainability



- 12 -
is in the oil palm plantation, where the palm trees are subject to potential
pest and disease attacks which could reduce future oil production. Among
these, the most dangerous is a virus called Soirrot, which kills the palm
tree, and for which no curative measure has yet been found. Some cases found
in the Tefe plantation have been immediately eradicated by burning the
contaminated palm trees.
H. Bank Performance
39.       In comparison with the Bank's average for agricultural. projects in
Brazil, the Bank's involvement throughout the life of this project has been
uneven Bank staff input was much higher during the preparation phase and lower
during supervision. As a result of the lack of background information on the
State, the complexity of proposed activities to be financed (oil palm
investments and rural development activities), the large size of the project
area, and the low level of experience of public entities involved in the
preparation, 8 missions and 141 staff weeks were necessary between the first
reconnaissance mission in March 1980 and Loan Effectiveness in November 1982.
In comparison, during the 8 years of implementation, 24 missions (of which 20
were one-person missions) and 135 staff weeks were devoted to supervision, or
an average of about 17 staff weeks per year. While above Bank average, this
supervision input was not sufficient to resolve all the implementation
problems encountered.
40.       The inclusion in the supervision missions of subject-matter
specialists, particularly in the areas of tree crops, seed marketing,
evaluation, and in organization and management of plantations would have been
very useful (such missions were adequately provided for the transport, health
and education components). In spite of this, most technical issues were
adequately addressed, and the relevant recommendations made. However, the
main failure of the supervision missions has been insufficient follow-up
concerning non-compliance with legal covenants particularly regarding the
institutional and financial issues which were repeatedly flagged in the
Minutes of Understanding, but largely ignored by project authorities. In
cases of political interference, dismissal of competent staff and use of
project equipment and funds during political campaigns, the Bank should have
used its remedies more liberally to protect the project.
41.       Regarding the withdrawal of the Federal financial support, the
question needs to be asked whether the Bank was well advised to continue
financing the project and accept three one-year extensions of the loan closing
date on the promise of satisfactory State counterpart funding? Project events
subsequent to the Bank's decision to extend its support, suggest that the
Bank's expectations were misplaced and the Bank's continued support did not
help to complete the investments in the oil palm component or to find a
sustainable solution for its organization and managenent problems.



- 13 -
I. Borrower's Performance
42.       Before August 1988, the Borrower cooperated closely and efficiently
with the Bank and State authorities in the preparation and further execution
of the project. Excellent relations existed between Bank staff and the head
and staff of the Institute for Economic and Social Planning (IPEA/IPLAN), the
branch of the Planning Ministry in charge of the project. IPEA's Project
Coordinator accompanied and actively supported each Bank mission. The support
of IPEA/IPLAN has been decisive in reducing financing problems imposed by the
country's budgetary constraints. Unfortunately, such efficient support
started to cwindle in early 1988, and disappeared entirely after the August
1988 "Operacao Desmonte", when the Federal Government started retreating from
its financing role of state activities. During that second phase, no federal
entity was officially responsible for the project, and in spite of personal
intervention by dedicated staff from the then International Affairs Department
of the Ministry of Economy (SEAIN, now DEAIN), the absence of federal project
counterpart staff participation has been as detrimental to the project as has
been the absence of federal financing.
J. Proiect RelationshiD
43.       The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower remained good
even after the Borrower's withdrawal. The cordial relations among the
Borrower, the State entities and the Bank have been an important factor in the
project's modest successes, and in the process, have helped to resolve many of
the difficult problems experienced during project implementation.
K. Consultina Services
44.       originally, technical assistance (TA) was envisaged for natural
resource studies and for oil palm development. The former with costs about
US$130,000 (or 50% of appraisal estimate), was essentially carried out by
individual researchers and university teams who successfully helped CODEAMA in
preparing the project's agro-ecological zoning. The TA for oil palm
development was considered essential by the appraisal team to achieve the
program's target, since the State had no technical or organizational
experience in this type of agro-industrial business and it was a real
challenge to start up this activity through a newly created public entity.
The only existing oil palm plantation at this time in Brazil, DENPASA, was
created in the state of Par& as an international joint venture.
45.       Two successive plantation management consultants did an outstanding
technical job without which the project's oil palm plantation would not exist.
Under exceptional difficult conditions, they simultaneously trained e7eryone
involved, from the plantation manager, to the technical assistants, and down
to each individual worker (future smallholders); and created and maintained
the plantation itself, in epite of the difficult financial situation and the
negative attitude of some State officials.



- 14 -
46.       Under contract, this consulting firm also provided support in
industrial investments, during the whole bidding process of the oil mill.
Both actions were adequately supervised by the firm's headquarters.
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
47.       The Staff Appraisal Report and accompanying Working Papers provided
the necessary framework for the Borrower and the Bank to implement the
project. Concerning the oil palm investment program, fully detailed Staff
Appraisal Report annexes have been used as a reference throughout the
implementation of the project, and technical and financial data have been
collected by EMADE and were useful in the preparation of the PCR. In contrast
to this, the monitoring of the Rural Development activities was not fully
satisfactory. The PCU and implementing agencies onl.y kept records of pnysical
and financial results, but they collected and retained little data that would
have facilitated both ongoing and post-project performance and impact
evaluation.



-15-
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE'2'
Introduction
1.         The Amnazonas Agricultural Development Project aimed primarily at
benefitting small farmers living in riverine areas, the majority of whom are
located in the Middle Amazon Region. The purpose of the project was to
increase food production in varzeas areas, and to stimulate the planting of
perennial crops on terra firma, as well as to provide support to the
development of technical project execution activities.
2.         The project's specific object.ves were to (a) increase 3.ncome and
improve living conditions of about 9500 farm families on plots of less than
100 ha; (b) increase food production to supply the rapidly growing urban
population; (c) promote rational and sustainable development of agricultural
production on suitable lands through increased productivity, gradual
introduction of new crops or varieties, and improved organization of
production systems; (d)improve productive, social and service infrastructure;
and (e) strengthen the Government's capacity to plan and implement projects in
other regions of the state.
3.         In order to achieve these objectives, the project included the
following activities:
(a) natural research studies and agro-ecological zoning in the project
area;
(b) strengthening and expansion of land tenure regularization services,
adaptive agricultural research, rural extension, improved seed
supply and marketing services;
(c) improvement of physical infrastructure in the project area, with an
expansion of storage, telecommunications and transportation
networks (improvement of secondary roads, floating health posts and
of the capacity to maintain them);
(d)  implementation of a pilot 5-year oil palm program (1800 ha) with
small farmer participation;
(e) strengthening of community development activities, education,
health and sanitation services; and
1/ Unofricial translation of parts of: CEPA/AM, 'Amazonas Rural Development Project: Final Evaluation Year 0 to Year 7 (Preliminary
Version)'. June 1991.
2/ Several of the Borrower'8 estimates on disbursements and achievements differ from the Bank's estimates. For example, the Borrower's
estimate of total project expenditure is USS46.59 million while the Bank's is US$48.32 million, and the Borrower's estimate for the
achievements of the Community Development component is 82.5 % of the appraisal estimate, while the Bank's is 17%, however, this
difference may be due to a definitional problem as the Bank's estimate is for the value of the component, while the Government's may be
for the number of farmers assisted.



-16-
(f) establishment of project administration and coordination
activities, including monitoring, continuous evaluation and special
studies.
4.        The project which was initially planned to be implemented in five
years (1982-1987) included the municipalities if Careiro, Manacapuru, Urucar&,
Parintins and Barreirinha. The oil palm agro-industrial complex, with 5000 ha
of oil palm planted over a nine-year period (1800 ha of which was to be
supported by the project) is located in the municipality of Tef6. The project
was extended for three additionaL years, because there was an unused balance
in the World Bank loan account.
5.        Over these years, various components were terminated such as:
Communications (year 4), Natural Resource Studies (year 5), Land Tenure
Organization (year 6), Transportation and Health and Sanitation (year 7),
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension, Research and Experiments, Seed and
Seedling Production and Supply, Marketing and Cooperatives, and Education
(year 8). After year 8 the remaining funds were esignated for Administration
and Monitoring, Community Development, and the oil palm agro-industrial
complex. It shou.d be pointed out, however, that state political and
administrative changes, especially the extinction of CEPA/AM, had a
considerable effect on activities in the Administration, Monitoring and
Community Development components which could not be carried out. Thus, the
unused balance was completely allocated to the oil palm program.
6.        As a result of the project the state gained experience from an
integrated effort in which numerous institutions worked with rural communities
to try to provide them with better living conditions, despite often
insurmountable difficulties such as those of political origin which greatly
interfered with carrying out planned objectives.
Estimated and Actual Costs
7.        The analysis of the project's financial aspects was based on
information in the Loan Agreement and the Appraisal Report with regard to
estimated costs, and on CEPA/AM's Financial Monitoring of the project with
regard to funds received and transferred to participating institutions. Thas,
an effort was made to show the relative application of funds effectively spent
by project executing agencies in relation to estimated costs, by source of
financing and by component. From this information it is possible to compare
financial resources applied and results achieved in terms of the project's
physical targets.
8.        It should be pointed out that the quantitative information is close
to reality and gives a foundation to the analysis, despite some limitations
such as the difficulty in converting funds because of the real value of the
exchange rate in effect at the time of their release (conversion was made
using the average monthly and/or annual exchange rate).
9.        Project costs were budgeted at US$77.36 million of which US$26.40
million was to be from t..z World Bank and US$50.96 million from the Federal



-17-
Government. These appraisal amounts, in percentage terms represent a World
Bank participation of 34%, and Federal Government 66%. From these amounts,
US$60.88 million or 79%, was planned for basic gervices (agricultural and
social services and project administration), and the remainder, US$16.48
million for consultant services and reserve funds (special account and
contingency).
10.       In the first five years of project execution, the state received
US$29.27 million or 38% of total estimated costs. Even with a three-year
extension (to December 1990), only about USS 46.59 million or 60% of the total
estimated funds required were received.
11.       With regard to the estimated resource needs by source of financing
the World Bank allocated US$20.0 million for basic services and US$6.3 million
for other services, while the Federal Government allocated US$40.8 million for
basic services and US$10.2 million for other services. Actual transfers from
the Bank for basic services were US$20.5 million or 102% of the appraisal
estimate, and US$3.1 million or 49% for other services. The Federal
Government's effective participation remained at 50% of total expenditures,
all of which was allocated to basic services and amounted to US$25.6 million
or 63% ef the estimated amount.
12.       The differences between the estimated and actual expenditures may
be interpreted as arising from, among other factors, the time lapse between
the signing of the Ministerial "Portarias" and the effective release of funds,
the majority of which occurred in the second half of the year. Over the
years, the delay in releases affected all project activitias, especially
"Agricultural Services" which are directly linked to strict observance of the
agricultural calendar.
13.       With regard to the application of total funds to project components
the oil palm agro-industrial complex received the largest share of 27% or
Us$12.0i million, including consultant services, followed by the Transport
with 13% or US$6.54 million, and Technical Assistance and Rural Extension 11%
or US$5.29 million. However, if actual funds transferred are compared to the
appraisal estimates, funds applied to the Seed and Seedling Production and
Supply component exceeded the appraisal estimate by 575% (US$1.64 million
versus US$242,424), while the Evaluation activities used only 33% (US$327,892
versus US$1 million) of estimated funds.
Planned and Actual Physical Targets
14.       In order to evaluate the effective results of the project, it is
necessary to compare the planned and actual physical targets. Information
from Annual Reports was used for actual targets, and from Annual Operating
Plans for planned targets, since the initially planned targets were
drastically modified throughout project implementation. The ratio of actual
to planned targets for all activities under each component have been averaged,
and, the final result by component is the average of these percentages.



-18-
15.       It should be pointed out that for most components the targets
accomplished were often different from the planned objectives, and this factor
made a more realistic evaluation of the project performance difficult.
16.       The average percentage of meeting project targets as a whole was
approximately 73%. "Agricultural services" reached 69.7%, "social service"
79.4% and "project organization" 80.2%. It should be emphasized that these
amounts represent a satisfactory result in view of the difficulties that
occurred throughout project implementation mainly because of delayed release
of funds, causing a gap between planned and actual targets. Besides the
erosion of planned financial resources as a result of the country's high
inflation rate (funds were planned and released in local currency), natural
phenomena such as river flooding and periods of intense rain contributed
considerably to the fact that not all planned targets were reached.
"Agricultural services" best reflected this situation, reaching 69.7% of the
target.
17.       The best "agricultural services" performance was in the
"telecommunications" component (100.9%) in which there was no relation between
achievement of targets and natural phenomena, since these activities took
place mainly on terra firma. On the other hand, the "marketing and
cooperatives" component had the poorest performance attaining 43.6% of the
appraisal estimate, followed by "seed and seedling production and supply" with
50.5%. Both components had a considerable effect on productive activities
since they are central to achieving the agricultural objectives.
18.       The performance of the oil palm component, despite being
considerably affected by delayed fund releases (as reflected in crop planting
that reached only 48% of planned planting for the eight years) may be
considered satisfactory in light of the compensatory effects of investments in
other targets/activities such as infrastructure and other agricultural
activities.
19.       With regard to social services, the education component had the
best performance, reaching 97.7% of targets, followed by the community
development component with 82.5%. The health and sanitation component reached
only 59% of the target, mainly due to the low accomplishments (22%) reached
with recycling activities.
20.       Sections under "project organization" (administration and
monitoring and evaluation) as a whole performed better since most of the
planned activities could be carried out by CEPA.
2'.       Special emphasis should be given to the community development
component which, despite being an unprecedented and recent activity in the
state, reached 82.5% of the target in two years of effective implementation.
This positive accomplishment seems to be a result of the philosophy used in
executing the component, the basic premise of which is the establishment of
targets based on felt and identified needs of the communities. This has
resulted in a commitment by these communities to achieving goals and repaying
the financing used to carry out these goals.



-19-
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan                 Purpose                         Year of         Status
Aioroval
First                To strengthen the               1976            Completed in
Agricultural         agricultural research                           1983.  PCR
Research Project    capability of EMBRAPA                            issued in
(Loan 1249-BR)       in the North, Northeast,                       1984.
and Center West of Brazil.
Agricultural         To strengthen EMBRATER's        1978            Completed in
Extension Project   capability to provide                            1985.  PCR
(Loan 1568-BR)      more efficient and                              issued in
effective extension                            1987.
services on a national
scale.
Second               Continuation of the Bank's    1981              Completed in
Agricultural         support to agricultural                         1987.  PCR
Research Project    research in Brazil by                            issued in
(Loan 2016-BR).      further increasing EMBRAPA's                   1989.
capacity to conduct sound
agricultural research.
Amazon Basin         To reduce the prevalence of   1989              Ongoing.  To
Malaria Control      malaria, strengthen the                         be completed
Project              the Superintendency for                         in 1995.
Public Health Campaigns
(SUCAM), and improve
health services in the
Amerindian areas.



- 20 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
ITEM                     DATE PLANNED      REVISED DATE    ACTUAL DATE
Identification              3/31/80                              3/31/80
Preparation              3/80-10/81                           3/80-10/81
Appraisal                  12/14/81                             12/14/81
Loan Negotiations           4/26/82                              4/26/82
Board Approval              5/27/82                              5/27/82
Loan Signature              6/25/82                              6/25/82
Loan Effectiveness         11/29/82                             11/29/82
Loan Closing               12/30/87           12/30/88
12/31/89          12/30/90
Project Completion          6/30/88            6/30/89
6/30/90       not yet fully
completed
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86 FY87   FY88  FY89 FY90 FY91W
Appraisal              1.5   5.3  10.4  16.8  23.2   26.4
Actual                 3.1   4.2   8.9  11.9  15.6   19.3  20.7  23.7  24.5
Actual as %
of Appraisal        206.7 79.2  85.6  70.8  f7.2   73.1  78.4  89.8  92.8
a/  Final disbursement against the loan was made on July 11, 1991 and US$1.9
million was cancelled.



- 21 -
Table 4: KEY PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
Activity                             Unit   Appraisal    Actual    Actual
% of
Appraisal
Natural Resources
Maps:
Topographical                       km2        4000       7000       175%
Agricultural Aptitude               km2        4000       1600        40%
Soil                                km2        4000       9335      233%
Geomorphological                    km2       16000      16000       100%
Vegetation                          km2        3000       6564       219%
Land Tenure Services
Temporary Titles                     No.       13243       6786        51%
Occupation Titles                    No.        3850       5906       153%
Final Land Titles                    No.        5628       4410        78%
Demarcation                          km2        3520       2580        73%
Adaptive Research
Observation Plots                    No.         140        159       114%
Demonstration Plots                  No.         400        370        93%
Extension Services
Families Assisted                    No.        9500       6040        64%
Seed SuDoly Services
Seed Storage Units                   No.           5          7       140%
Seed Processing Plant                No.           1          2       200%
Seed Production:
Rice                                Ton         388         78        20%
Millet                              Ton         225         81        36%
Beans                               Ton         211        178        84%
Transoort
Tracks Constructed                   km.         672        522        78%
Tracks Upgraded                      km.         136        170       125%
Feeder Roads
Rehabilitated                       km.          48         21        44%
Telecommunications
Public Pay Phones                    No.          50         65       130%
Inter-Urban
Telephone Systems                   No.           3          7       233%



- 22 -
Activity                             Unit   Appraisal    Actual    Actual
% of
Appraisal
Education
Schools Constructed                  No.         140         92        66%
Schools Upgraded                     No.          25         20        80%
Scholastic Equipment                 No.         387        249        64%
Primary School
Curriculum                          No.        4000       4000       100%
Teachers Manuals
Published                           No.        2000       2000      100%
Health. Sanitation
and Water SuoDlv
Health Posts                         No.          60         91       152%
Training:
Health Agents                       No.          60        121      202%
Midwives                            No.          60        111       185%
Sanitary Installations               No.        1000        650        65%
Small Scale Water
Supply                              No.          50         23        46%
Purification System                  No.          10          3        30%
Community Development Fund           US$  1,000,000   208,100          17%
Oil Palm Develogment
Land Clearing                        Ha.        1800       1657        92%
Planting                             Ha.        1800       1430        79%
Access Roads Built
and Maintained                      km.          36         69      192%
Workers Houses                       No.         200         92        46%
Administrative/
Processing Center                   No.           1          0         0%



- 23 -
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
LUSS million)
A. PROJECT COSTS
ACTUAL AS
A P P R A I S A L          A C T U A L      % OF
TOTAL       (X)          TOTAL    (X)      APPRAISAL
...........................................................................................
AgricuLturaL Support Services
.............................
Natural Resources *                       1.53        2.0%          0.61      1.3%         39.9%
Land Tenure                               7.32        9.4%          3.31     6.8%          45.2%
Adaptive Research                         5.23        6.7%          2.32     4.8%          44.4%
Extension Services                       11.99       15.4%          5.13    10.6%          42.8%
Seed SuppLy                               0.29        0.4%          2.91     6.0%        1003.4%
Marketing                                 2.95        3.8%          1.51     3.1%          51.2%
Transport                                12.11       15.6%          5.50    11.4%          45.4%
TeLecommunications                        0.88        1.1%          0.77     1.6%          87.5%
Sub-Total                             42.30       54.4%        22.06    45.7%           52.2%
Smaliholder Oil Palm Program *
.        ..........................    .........
Sub-Total                            17.20       22.1%         17.43    36.1%         101.3%
Social Services
... ............
Education Services                        6.61        8.5%          2.58     5.3%          39.0%
Health and Sanitation                     4.82        6.2%          1.12     2.3%          23.2%
Co5munity Development Fund                1.22        1.6%          0.21     0.4%          17.2%
Sub-Total                            12.65       16.3%         3.91      8.1%          30.9%
Project Management
..................
A*dinIstration                            4.00        5.1%          4.29     8.9%         107.3%
Evaluation                                1.15        1.5%          0.23     0.5%          20.2%
Sub-TotaL                             5.15        6.6%          4.52     9.4%          87.8%
Total Project Costs                      77.30       99.5%         47.92    99.2%          62.0%
Front End Fee                             0.40        0.5%          0.40     0.8%         100.0%
77.70 *   100.0%         48.32   100.0%           62.2%
,................................................................................................................ ................
*   Includes Consultant Services.
B. Project Financing
ACTUAL AS
A P P R A I S A L          A C T U A L      % OF
TOTAL       (X)          TOTAL    (X)      APPRAISAL
Federal Government                       51.30       66.0%          17.7    36.6%          34.5%
State Government                             0        0.0%          6.11    12.6%
...........    ........ .  ....... ................. ....... .   ............... ... ............
Counterpart Funds                        51.30       66.0%         23.81    49.3%          46.4%
World Bank                               26.40       34.0%         24.51    50.7%          92.8%
...........  .........    .........  .......    ..........
TOTAL                                    77.70      100.0X         U8.32   100.0%          62.2X
..................................... ........................................................................



- 24 -
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
Indlcator                 Untl       Acoraisal       Actual
Average Farm Family Income            US$        6,118          3,630
Families AssilstedV                   No.        8,800          6,040
Schools Constructed                   No.          140              92
Public Pay Phones                     No.           50              65
Tracks Constructed                    km.          672             522
Health Posts                          No.           60              91
Sanitary Installations                No.        1,500             650
Small Scale Water Supply              No.           50              23
I/ Assisted directdy by EMATER-AM.
B. ECONOMIC IMPACT
APPRAISAL          PCR
ESTIMATE        ESTIMATE
Economic Rate of Return of Smallholder
oil Palm Program at Full DevelopmentA/          13.7%            8.9%
./ Tbe appraisl simato includes income received from foodorops, which is not accounted for in the PCR cstimate.
Note: For details on the PCR recalculation of the ERR see Annex 1.
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT
APPRAISAL          PCP
ESTIMATE        ESTIMATE
Financial Rate of Return Smallholder Oil
Palm Program at Full Developmentf/              14.0%            6.8%
g/ The appnril etimate includes income received from foodcrops, which is not accounted for in the PCR esimate.
Note: For detais on the PCR recalculation of the FRR se Annex 1.



- 25 -
Table 7: STATUS OF COMPLIANCE WITH KEY LEGAL COVENANTS
Loan/Project
Agreement        Description                        Comments
Section
LOAN AGREEMENT
Article III
3.01 (a)       Without any limitation or             Partially complied with.
restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan
Agreement, the Borrower shall
take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the State
to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project
Agreement all of the State's
obligations therein set forth and
shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such
performance.
3.02 (c)       Borrower to cause EMBRAPA to          Complied with.
enter into agreement referred to
in Section 2.01 (b) of Project
Agreement, and to perform all of
EMBRAPA's obligations under such
agreement.
3.02 (d)       Borrower to cause INCRA to enter    Complied with.
into the agreement with ITERAM
referred to in Section 2.01 (g)
(i) of Project Agreement.
Article IV
4.03           Borzower to take all necessary        Not complied with.  The
action for the carrying out of       Federal Government withdrew
the 5,000 ha. oil palm                from the project financing
development program to be             in  August 1988, and State
initiated under Part D of the         funds are insufficient
Project, including the provision    sufficient to conclude the
of funds therefore                    first 1,800 hectares phase.



- 26 -
Loan/Project
Agreement        Description                        Comments
Section
LOAN AGREEMENT
Article IV
{Cont.}
4.04           Borrower to take all necessary
action to ensure adequate and
timely availability of funds for
the provision of the following
financial assistance to project
beneficiaries.
(a) on farm investment credit to    Partially complied with.
small farmers;
(b) seasonal credit; and
(c) investment credit for
cooperatives.
PROJECT
AGREEMENT
Article II
2.01 (b)       State to enter into an agreement    Complied with.
satisfactory to the Bank, with
EMBRAPA for the obligation of
EMBRAPA to carry out, through the
UEPAE-AM, Part A.2 of the
project.
2.01 (g)       State to cause ITERAM, for            Complied with.
purpose of Part B:
(i) to enter in agreementt. aith
the National Land Reform
Institute and each of the
municipalities providing for the
delegation of authorities to
ITERAM to carry out its program
in territories under federal and
municipal jurisdiction;



- 27 -
Loan/Project
Agreement        Description                       Comments
Section
PROJECT
AGREEMENT
Article II
(Cont.)
2.01 (h)       (iv) cause SETRAN to enter into      Complied with.
contractual arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with
each municipality, providing for
responsibility of maintenance of
project financed infrastructure.
2.01 (i)       (iv) cause SEDUC to enter into       Complied with.
contractual arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with
each municipality providing the
procedures and responsibilities
for payment of teacher salaries,
school maintenance, etc.
2.01 (j)       (iii) cause SESAU to enter into      Not complied with. Because
contractual arrangements, with       of continuous serious
each municipality, setting the       management deficiencies,
responsibilities for the             the component was dropped
maintenance of the water supply      in March 1988.
and purification systems, and for
the financing of the operational
and maintenance costs.



- 28 -
Loan/Project
Agreement        Description                        Comments
Section
PROJECT
AGREEMENT
Article II
(Cont.l
2.01 (k)       For purposes of Part C.5 of the
project, the State shall:
(i) upon establishment of the        Complied with.
Community Development Fund
described therein in accordance
with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly deposit into such Fund
the resources required in order
to meet the expenditures incurred
in the execution of the cormmunity
development projects financed out
of the proceeds of such Fund.
Payments out of such Fund shall
be made exclusively for
expenditures incurred in the
carrying out of community
development projects following
criteria, terms and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank which
shall include, inter alia, those
set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and
(ii) whenever an amount              Not applicable.
equivalent to US$250,000 has been
disbursed from the Fund, carry
out an evaluation of the
community development programs
financed out of the proceeds of
the Fund and, promptly
thereafter, furnish to the Bank
the conclusions of such
evaluation and recommendations
satisfactory to the Bank for
further operation of the Fund.



- 29 -
Loan/Project
Agreement        Description                        Comments
Section
2.01 (1)        (iv) enter into contractual           Not complied with.
arrangements with EMADE providing
for: (a) a loan of $11,700,000;
and (b) equity contribution to
the capital of EMADE of
$5,400,000.
2.02            In order to assist the State or       Complied.
the executing entities, as the
case may be, in the carrying out
of the project, the Str.e shall
employ or cause the executing
entities to employ consultants
whose selection, qualifications,
experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank in
accordance with the principles
and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for Use of
Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
3.04 (a)       The State shall at all times           Partially completed.
operate and maintain the project
facilities, and, promptly as
needed, make all necessary
repairs thereof.



- 30 -
Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A Staffnou
FY80    FY81    FY82       FY83    FY84    FY85   FY86   FY87           FY88    FY89      FY90   FY91   FY92
Prepartion      2.1    33.6       33.4
Apprisal                          70.9
Negotiations                       3.0
Supervision                        0.1      19.3    14.3    15.5      16.5    14.8    14.6       14.7     11.1    14.3
PCR                                                                                                               10.4    153
TOTAL          EL    33         104.43     29.3    14.3    15         65     1S       14.6      147       l I    24.7    15.3
As of November 27. 1991
B. MISSIONS
..................................................................................................................
STAGE OF PROJECT              MONTH/   NUMBER OF    DAYS IN    SPECIALIZATION   PERFORMANCE RATING    TYPES OF
CYCLE                  YEAR      PERSONS       THE FIELD  REPRESENTED a/ ------------ PROBLEMS
STATUS b/ TREND c/        d/
..................................................................................................................
A) Through Appraissl
Reconnaissance             03/80         1            7       Ag
Pr epa ration 1            07/80         2            7       Ag
Preparation I1             01/81         5            15      Ag/Ec/Hy/Ed/Tr
Preparation 111            03/81         3            14      Ag/Ec
Pre-Apprsisol              07/81         8            1S      Ag/Ec/Hy/Ed/Tr/Ha
ApPraisal                  10/81         9            17      Ag/Ec/Hy/Ed/Tr/He/Fi
B) Appraisal through
Board                      02/82         1            4       Tr
C) Board through
Effectiveness              10/82         2            8       Ag
0) Supervision                03/83         1             5      Ed
03/83        3            10       Ag/Tr                  2        1         F/N
10/83        1             6       He
09/83         1           10       Ag                     2        3         P/F/N
11/83        1             3       Tr
02/84         1            9       Ag                     2        1         F
12/84        1            "I       Ag                    3         3         F
04/85         ¶            a       Ed
06/85        2            10       Ag/Ff             2/2/2/2
07/85         1            9       Dc
11/85        2             8       He/Ed             3/2/2/2
03/86         1           16       Fi                 ///
07/86         1           10       So
09/86         1           10       Ed
10/86        1            15       Fl                2/1/2/2
05/87         1            8       Tr
10/87        1            15       Fl                3/1/2/2
03/88         1           14       Fi                1/1/1/1
04/88         1            5       Tr
12/88        1            15      TF                 2/2/2/2
05/89         1            4       Fl                2/2/2/2
09/89         1           14       Fl                2/2/2/2/2
06/90         1            3       Fl                3/3/3/2/3
10/90        2            10       Ffi/Ee            3/13/3/3/4
E) Project ConpLetion         04/91         1             3
06/91         1            6
a;  Ag- agriculturist; Cl- climatologist; Dce deputy division Chief; Ecu economist; Ed' education
Fl- financial analyst; Heu health; Hyu hydrotogist; SOn sociologist; Tr- highway engineer.
b/  until June 1985: 1: problem-free; 2. moderate probLems; 3a major problems
from June 1985 to June 1989: lst- funds; 2da project managemnt; 3d. dev. inact; 4th. overall status.
After June 1988: let, overaLL status; 2dudevelopment objectives; 3d. compLiancit with Legal covenants;
4th' project management; and, 5th- evaltability of funds.
C/  In  inproving; 2' stationary; 3- deteriorating.



- 31-
page I. of 2.1
ANNEX 1 * DBRI'JATION OF ECONOMIC AiND FXNFiCXAL RATES OF RETUR
Estimated Production of Fresh Fruit Bunch (FPS)
'EA"   hELD          AZ 18         96      19       98   9919    93             19   &lST        194     19       96     39       ECOND   TOTAL   MON1flC.    KILLING0   INSTALLED
Of   TONlS       PLAIST.                                                           13183                                        PH8M              PMA        RLEQUX WI.    CAPACITY
PROD0.  133. hER   Ka.    169    116    279    458    22   126   160    472   1900                $00    800   1000    1090    3100    5000    TIFFS a/ TI118I0 bw   TIFFhOlf
1    3   1989  807                                              8~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~07                                         0.12    0.0022
2    7   1i99           1883   348                                                  1221
3   12   1990           3229   812    837                                           4977
4   i 18  99            4542  1392   1953   13636                                   9555
5   20   1992           5380  20981   3348   3192    66                            18074
7   22   TOTAL LOST 16140  4640   8138   4560    66                                31544
8 22
9 22   1993'         5919  2320   5012   5472   156   379            0       0  19264                                                1926'          2312        5.1
30   22   1994           5919  2552   5560   8208   264   892   4880            0  23884                                                23894          2666        6.3
13   22   1995           5918  2352   8138   9320   396  1512  1120   1416  26172                                                       29172          23981       7.4
12   22   1996           5918  2553   8139  10032   440  2288  1920   3304  32572                                                       32572          3909        8.6           10
13   20   1997           5919  2552   6158  10032   498  2520  2880   5664  36198             3500       0        0       0     3500   37698           4523        9.9
14   20   1998           5919  2552   6138  10032   488  2772  3200   9496  39592    3500   3800                  0       0    5300   44892            5387       31.9
35   20   l999           5918  2552   6139  30032   46'  2772  3SlO   9440  40565    6900   4200   3000                   0   13200   54056            6487       14.3           20
36   t9   2000           3390  2SSa   61581  10032   464  2772  3520  10364  41262    9900   7200   7000   3000   26200   67862                        9093        17.8
37   39   2001           5380  2320   6138  10032   486  2772  3520  103986  41030   10000  10800  12000   7000   39900   80650                        9700       23.3
is   18   2002           5390  2320   3560  10032   684  2772. 3520  10394  40472   13080  32000  18000  12000   33000   93472                        11237       28.7           30
19   39   2003           4842  2320   5590   9120   494  2772  3520  10364  39022   11000  13200  20000  19000   82200  301222                        12187       26.7
20   19   2004           4942  2088   5590   9120   440  2772  3520  10394  39746   11000  13200  22000  20000   66202)  104946                       32394        27.7
23   36   2005           49842  20881   5022   9320   440  2320  3520  13034  37936   1.000  13200  22000  22000   69200  109336                      12736       29.0
22   19   2006           48142  2099   5022   9209   640  2520  3200  10394  56704   11000  15200  22000  22000   68200  104904                       12589       27.7
23   16   2007           4942  2086   5011   9208   396  2320  3200   9440  35738   31000  13200  22000  22000   68200  103916                        12470        27.4
24   36   2008           4304  2069   5022   0208   396  2269  3200   9440  54926   11000  13200  21000  12000   69200  303326                        12375       27.2
25   36   2009           4208   1956   5022   8208   396  2268  2980   9430  34364   10000  1520   22000  22000   67200  101564                       12198        26.9
....2030             4304  39156   4464   8208   596  2268  2890   8486  32861   10000  12000  22000  22000   66000   96962                        11863       26.1
6448   2011         8304  1956   6464   7296   396  2269  2880   8496  31950   10000  12000  20000  22000   64000   95950                         11534       25.3
2012         4306  1956   8464   7296   352  2268  2990   8496  31906              9000  12000  20000  20000   63000   92906               13149       24.5
2013                 1856   4868   7298   352  2019  2990   9486  27350    900 3800  10 000  20000 5oo              9900   87150           10459       23.0
2034                         4464   7296   352  2039  2580   8490  25179    9000  10800  39000  00000   57800   82979                       9957       21.9           20
203                                  7296   552  2018  2580   7552  39776    9000  10800  19000  19000   55800   75576                      9069       20.0
2016                                         352  2036  2560   7352  12880    8000  10900  18000  19000   53900   69290                     8194       19.0
2017                                               2016  256      75512  12128    8000  10800  38009  19000   38900   66929                 8031       17.7
2039                                                      2560   7552  10112    81000   9600  19000  39000   53600   63712                  7645       36.9
2019                                                              7552   7552    9000   9600  16000  19000   51600   59152                  7098       15.6
2020                                                                               8000   9600  36000  16000   49600   89600                5952       12.1
2021                                                                               9000   9400  16000  36000   49600   49600                5392       23.1
2022                                                                                       9800  1600   16000   41600   81600               4992       11.0           30
202)                                                                                              16000  16000   32000   32000              5980        8.4
2028                                                                                                      16000   16000   16000             1920        4.2
2023
303296 469646 117739 197904 9702 35944 73080 209532 812000 222000 2868400 4644000 648000 1576600 2189400
.0 32  40963  PIODUCTION
bi 850 ROOM Of OnUATIONO PU 3(00



-32-
Annex 1
page 2 of 11
Estimated Production of Palm Oil
(Tonsl
YEARS    X   PLANTING YEAR 1985  1986  1987   1988  1989  1990  1991   1992  FIRST    1994   1995   1996   1997   SECOND             TOTAL
OF   TONS                                                                      PHASE                                    PHASE  TWO PHASES
PROD.   OIL  YEARS      Ha   269   116   279    456    22   126   160    472   1900         500    600   1000   1000    3100           5000
1    12    1988            97                                                     97                                                  97
2    16    1989           301    42                                              343                                                 343
3    18    1990            581   130   100                                       811                                                 811
4    20    1991            968   251   312    164                               1695                                                1695
5    20    1992           1076   418   585    511      8                        2598                                                2598
6    20                 .....................................--------.........                                                 .
7    20   TOTAL LOST    3023   841   997    675        8                       5544                                                 5544
8    20
9    20    1993           1184   464  1004    985    25    45       0      0   3707                                                3707
10    20    1994          1184   510  1116   1642    48   141    58         0   4699                                                4699
11    20    1995          1184   510  1228   1824    79   272   179    170   5446                                                   5446
12    20    1996          1184   510  1228   2006    88   454   346    529   6345                                                   6345
13    20    1997          1184   510  1228   2006    97   504   576   1020   7125         180                            180         7305
14    20    1998          1184   510  1228   2006    97   554   640   1700   7919         560    216                     776        8695
15    20    1999          1184   510  1228   2006    97   554   704   1888   8171    1080    672    360                 2112       10283
16    20    2000          1076   510  1228   2006    97   554   704   2077   8Z52    1800   1296   1120    360-   4576             12828
17    20    2001          1076   464  1228   2006    97   554   704   2077   8206    2000   2160   2160   1120    7440              15646
18    20    2002          1076   464  1116   2006    97   554   704   2077   8094    2200   2400   3600   2160   10360             18454
19    20    2003           968   464  1116   1824    97   554   704   2077   7804    2200   2640   4000   3600   12440             20244
20    20    2004           968   418  1116   1824    88   554   704   2077   7749    2200   2640   4400   4000   13240              20989
20    2005           968   418  1004   1824    88   504   704   2077   7587    2200   2640   4400   4400   13640             21227
20    2006           968   418  1004   1642    88   504   640   2077   7341    2200   2640   4400   4400   13640             20981
20    2007           968   418  1004   1642    79   504   640   1888   7143    2200   2640   4400   4400   13640             20783
20    2008           861   418  1004   1642    79   454   640   1888   6986    2200   2640   4400   4400   13640             20626
20    2009           861   371  1004   1642    79   454   576   1888   6875    2000   2640   4400   4400   13440             20315
2010           861   371   893   1642    79   454   576   1700   6576    2000   2400   4400   4400   13200             19776
2011           861   371   893   1459    79   454   576   1700   6393    2000   2400   4000   4400   12800             19193
2012           861   371   893   1459    70   454   576   1700   6384    1800   2400   4000   4000   12200             18584
2013                 371   893   1459    70   403   576   1700   5472    1800   2160   4000   4000   11960             17432
2014                        893   1459    70   403   512   1700   5037    1800   2160   3600   4000   11560            16597
2015                              1459    70   403   512   1510   3954    1800   2160   3600   3600   11160            15114
2016                                       70   403   512   1510   2495    1800   2160   3600   3600   11160           13655
2017                                            403   512   1510   2425    1600   2160   3600   3600   10960           13389
2018                                                  51.   1510   2022    1600   1920   3600   3600   10720           12742
2019                                                        1510   1510    1600   1920   3200   36C0   10320           11830
2020                                                                         1600   1920   3200   3200    9920          9920
2021                                                                         1600   1920   3200   3200    9920          9920
2022                                                                                1920   3200   3200    8320          8320
2023                                                                                       3200   3200    6400          6400
2024                                                                                               3200    3200         3200
2025
20661  9371 23549  39470  1928 11091 14087  41560 161717   44020  52824  88040  88040  272924            434641
..................................................................



-33-
Annex 1
page 3 of 11
Estimated Production of Kernels
(Tons)
........ ...    ........... .............. ........................... .. ... . ....... .. .. .  . .... .....  ------------  ........
YEARS    X        PLANTING  1985  1986  1987   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  FIRST   1994   1995   1996   19;7  SECOND   TOTAL
OF   TONS                                                                   PHASE                               PHASE  2 PHASES
PROD.  KERN. YEARS      Ha   269   116   279    456    22  126  160   472   1900    500    600   10oo   1ooo  31oo          5000
... ...... . ..    ................... .... ... .... ... .. .. .. .. .... ... ..........................    ..........................................    .. ......
1  3.5   1988              28                                                 28                                           28
2  3.8   1989              72    12                                           84                                           84
3   4.0   1990            129   31    29                                     189                                           189
4   4.0   1991            194    56    75     47                             372                                          372
5  4.0   1992             215    84   135    123      2                      559                                          559
6   4.0.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   . . . . . .. .                                        . .
7  4.0   TOTAL LOST       638   183   239    170      2                     1232                                          1232
8  4.0
9  4.0   1993             237    93   202    221      6    13    0      0    772                                          772
10  4.0   1994             237   102   224    330    11   24    17       0    945                                          945
11   4.0   1995            237   102   245    366    16    .i   30    50   1107                                           1107
12  4.0   1996             237   102   245    400   18   91    77    89   1259                                            1259
13  4.0   1997             237   102   245    400    19  101   116   227   1447       50                          50      1497
14  4.0   1998            2n7   102   245    400    19  111   128   342   1584    130        60                  190      1774
15   4.0  1999             237   102   245    400    19  111  141   378   1633    240    156    100              496      2129
16  4.0   2000             215   102   245    400    19  I1l   141   416   1649    360    288    260    100   1008        2657
17  4.0   2001             215    93   245    400    19  I11   141   416   1640    400    432    480    260   1572        3212
18  4.0   2002             215    93   224    400    19  111  141   416   1619   440    480    720    480   2120          3739
19  4.0  2003              194    93   224    366    19  I11  141   416   1564    440    528    800    720   2488         4052
20  4.0  2004              194    84   224    366    18  111  141   416   1554    440    528    880    800   2648         4202
4.0   2005            194    84   202    366    16  101  141   416   1520    440    528    880    880   2728         4248
4.0   2006            194    84   202    330    16  101   128   416   1471    440    528    880    880   2728        4199
4.0  2007             194    84   202    330    16  101   128  378   1433    440    528    880    880   2728          4161
4.0   2008            172    84   202    330    16   91   128   378   1401    440    528    880    880   2728         4129
4.0   2009            172    74   202    330    16   91   116   378   1379   400    528    880    880   2688          4067
2010            172    74   179   330    16   91   116   342   1320    400    480    880    880   2640         3960
2011            172    74   179    292    16   91   116  342   1282    400    480    800    880   2560         3842
2012            172    74   179    292    14   91   116   342   1280    360    480    800    800   2440        3720
2013                   74   179    292    14   81   116  342   1098    360    432    800    800   2392         3490
2014                        179    292    14   81   102   342   1010   360    432    720    800   2312         3322
2015                               292    14   81   102   302    791    360    432    720    720   2232        3023
2016                                      14   81   102   302   499    360    432    720    720   2232         2731
2017                                            81   102   302    485    320    432    720    720   2192       2677
2018                                                 102   302    404    320    384    720    720   2144       2548
2019                                                        302    302    320    384    640    720   2064      2366
2020                                                                     320    384    640    640   1984       1984
2021                                                                     320    384    640    640   1984       1984
2022                                                                            384    640    640   1664       1664
2023                                                                                   640    640   1280       1280
2024                                                                                          640    640       640
4134  1876  4718  7925   384  2230  2829  8352  32448   8860  10632  17720  17720  54932       87380
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................



-34-
Annex  1
page 4 of 11
Estimated Agricultural Production Costs
L-000 U8Sl
A) 1.900 HECTARES                           B) 5,000 HECTARES
............... ................................... .................. ........................................  ..................................
1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992  TOTAL   1994 1995  1996  1997 TOYAL  TOTAL
YEAR   269  116  279  456   22  126  160  472  1900    500  600  1000  1000  3100  5000
1993   129  56  112  146    8   28               478                                  478
1994   129  56  134  182    7  48   35           591                                  591
1995    129  56  134  219    9  40  61  104   751                                     751
1996   129  56  134  219  11  50  51  179  829                                        829
1997   129  56  134  219  11  60   64  151   824         110                    110  934
1998   129  56  134  219  11  60   77  189  874          190  132              322  1196
1999   124  56  134  219  11  60   77  227   907    160  228  220               608  1515
2000   124  53  134  219  11  60   77 227   904    200  192  380  220   992  1896
2001    124  53  128  219  11  60   77 227   899    240  240  320  380  1180  2079
2002   124  53  128  210  11  60   77  227   890    240 288  400  320  1248  2138
2003   124  53  128  210   10  60   77  227   889    240  288  480  400  1408  2297
2004   124  53  128  210   10  58   77  227   887    240  288  480  480  1488  2375
2005    124  53  128  210   10  58   74  227   883       240  288  480  480  1488  2371
2006   124  53  128  210   10  58  74  217   874    240 288  480  480  1488  2362
2007   124  53  128  210   10  58   74  217   874        240 288  480  480  1488  2362
2008   108  53  128  210   10  58   74  217   858        230 288  480  480  1478  2336
2009   108  46  128  210   10  58   74  217  851         230  276  480  480  1466  2317
2010   108  46  112  210   10  58   74  217   834        230 276  460  480  1446  2280
2011    108  46  112  182   10  58   74  217   807    230 276  460  460  1426  2233
2012   108  46  112  182   9   58   74  217   805        230 276  460  460  1426  2231
2013         46  112  182    9   50   74  217   690      230  276  460  460  1426 2116
2014              112  182   9   50  64  217   634    230 276  460  460  1426  2060
2015                   182   9   50  64  189   494       230 276  460  460  1426  1920
2016                          9   50   64  189   312     230  276  460   460  1426  1738
2017                              50  64  189  303       200 276  460   460  1396  1699
2018                                   64  189   253    200  240  460  460  1360  1613
2019                                       189   189    200  240  400  460  1300  1489
2020                                                     200  240  400  400  1240  1240
2021                                                     200  240  400  400  1240  1240
2022                                                          240  400  400  1040  1040
2023                                                                400  400   800   800
2024                                                                      400   400   400
................................................   ...........................................................................................
2426 1102 2762 4660  233 1363 1731 5107 19386   St10 6492 10820 10820 33542 52928
UNIT COSTS, USS/Ha
PRODUCTION YEAR 1           220
PRODUCTION YEAR 2           380
PRODUCTION YEAR 3           320
PRODUCTION YEAR 4           400
PRODUCTION YEAR 05 TO 11   480
PRODUCTION YEAR 12 To 20    460
PRODUCTION YEAR 21 TO 25    400
.. ..... ......... . ..........



-35-
Annex 
page 5 of 11
Estimated Millina  and Transoort Costs
( a oo uss ?
A) 1,900 HECTARES                     B) 5,000 HECTARES
..   .  ..................   ....................................
TONS MILLING   TRANSP.   TOTAL        TONS   MILLING   TRANSP.  TOTAL
TEFE    MILL. &                         TEFE   MILL. &
YEARS     OIL    COST    MANAUS  TRANSP.         OIL     COSTS    MANAUS  TRANSP.
......  ............. ..........     ......   ....................................
1993      3707      148       56      204         3707      148         56     204
1994      4699     188        7.      258         4699      188         70     258
1995      5446     218       8al      300         5446      218         82     3no
1996      6345     254        95      349         6345      254         95     349
1997      7125     285       107      392         7,Os      292        110     402
1998      7919     317       119      436         8695      348        130     478
1999      8171     327       123      449        10283      411        154     566
2000      8252     330       124      454        12828      513        192     706
2001      8206     328       123      451        15646      626        235     861
2002      8094     324       121      445        18454  .    a38       277    1015
2003      7804     312       117      429        20244      810        304    1113
2004      7749     310       116      426        20989      840        315    1154
2005      7587     303       114      417        21227      849        318    1167
2006      7341      294      110      404        20981      839        315    1154
2007      7143     286       107      393        20783      831        312    1143
2008      6986     279       105      384        20626      825        309    1134
2009      6875      275      103      378        20315      813        305    1117
2010      6576     263        99      362        19776      791        297    1o88
2011      6393     256        96      352        .9193      768        288    1056
2012      6384     255        96      351        18584      743        279    1022
2013      5472     219        82      301        17432      697        261     959
2014      5037     201        76      277        16597      664        249     913
2015      395'      158       59      217        15114      605        227     831
2016      2495      100       37       137       13655      546        205     751
2017      2425       97       36       133       13385      535        201     736
2018      2022       81       30       111       12742      510        191     70
2019      1sio       60       23        83       11830      473        177     651
2020                                            9920      397        149     546
2021                                            9920      397.       149     546
2022                                            8320      333        125     458
2023                                            6400      256         96     352
2024                                            3200       128        48     176
..................................   ....................................
161717    6469     2426      8894      434641    17386       6520   23905
..........................................   ....................................
ESTIMATED COSTS:
MILLING:                          40 USS/T
TRANSPORT TEFE/MANAUS:            15 USS/T
........... .................................... o



-36-
Annex 1
page 6 of 11
Estimated Sales
(1000 US$)
A) 1,900 HECTARES                               B) 5,000 HECTARES
TONS    TONS   SALES      SALES    TOTAL       TONS     TONS    SALES    SALES     TOTAL
YEARS    OIL   KERNEL   OIL      KERNELS   SALES       OIL     KERNEL    OIL     KERNELS   SALES
-- --   ...-------.---..-----........--------------------...--....  .............................................  _... ...._
1993    3707     772       1409     201      1609      3707       772      1409     201     1609
1994    4699     945       1786     246     2031       4699       945      1786     246     2031
1995    5446    1107       2069     288     2357        54.46    1107      2069     288     2357
1996    6345    1259       2411     327     2738       634!      1259      2411     327     2738
1997    7125    1447       2708     376     3084        7305     1497      2776     389     3165
1998    79i9   1584        3009     412     3421       8695      1774      3304     461     3765
1999    8171    16Z3       3105     4?5     3530       10283     2129      3908     554     4461
2000    8252    1649       3136     429     3565       12828     2657      4875     691     5565
2001    8206    1640       3118     426     3545       15646     3212      5945     835     6781
2002    8094    1619       3076     421     3497       18454     3739      7013     972     7985
2003    7804    1564       2966     407      3372      '0244     4052      7693    1054     8746
2004    7749    1554       2945     404     3349       20989     4202      7976    1093     9068
2005    7587    1520       2883     395     327'.      21227    4248       8066    1104     9171
2006    7341    1471       2790     382     31;2       20981     4199      7973    1092     9065
2007    7143    1433       2714     373     3087       20783     4161      7898    1082     8979
2008    6986    1401       265,    364      3019       20626     4129      7838    1074     8911
2009    6875    1379       2613     359      2971      20315     4067      7720    1057     8777
2010    6576    1320       2499     343      2842      19776    3960       7515    1030     8544
2011    6393    1282       2429     333      2763      19193     3842      7293     999     8292
2012    6384    1280       2426     333      2759      18584     3720      7062     967     8029
2013    5472    1098       2079     285      2365      17432     3490      6624     907     7532
2014    5037    1010       1914     263      2177      16597    3322       6307     864     7171
2015    3954     791       1503     206      1708      15114     3023      5743     786     6529
2016    2495     499        948     130      1078      13655     2731      5189     710     5899
2017    2425     485        922     126      1048      13385     2677      5086     696      5782
2018    2022     404        768     105      873       12742     2548      4842     662     5504
2019    1510     302        574      79       652      11830     2366      4495     615    r.111
2020                                                    9920     1984      3770     516     4285
2021                                                    9920     1984      3770     516      4285
2022                                                    8320     1664      3162     433      3594
2023                                                    6400     1280      2432     333      2765
2024                                                    3200      640      1216     166      1382
161717   32448      61452    8436    69889      434641    87380    165164   22719   187882
ESTIMATED SELLING PRICES, USS/TON:
OIL PALM, FOB MANAUS: 380 (CIF EUROPE, $310, +FREIGHT EUROPE/MANAUS, $70)
KERNELS, FOB MANAUS:  260 (CIF EUROPE, $190, +FREIGHT EUROPE/MANAUS, $70)



Agricultural Investment Costs
. .......... ...   ............... .. .. .. ... .. .   ... ...  .........   ............... -------    . ..............   ------------    .............   ... ... ... ... .   ---------..
PLANTING             -1 9    9   1-  -1  9    9    2-  -1  9    9    3-   -1  9    9    4-    -1  9    9   5-    -1  9    9   6-   -1    9   9    7-   -1    9    9  8-    -1    9    9    9-    TOTAL
YEAR        Na      S/Ha   000'S    S/Na   000'S    S/Na   000'S    S/Ha  0OO'5    S/He  00'S    S/Ha  00'S    S/Ha   W00'S    t/Ha   00W'S    S/Ha    000'S    O00'S
.... ........... .. .   ............   ................. .. ._.......... ...   .......  ....... .   .... ..... .. .   .. ._.... ..... .   ........... .... ..... ........   ......... ......... .   ...... ....
FIRST PHASE
1985      269
1986      116
1987      279
1988      456
1959        22
1142      250   285.5        250   285.5
1990    126       250    31.5        300    37.8        400    50.4
1991    160       400    64.0        250    40.0        300    48.0        400    64.0
1992    472                          400   188.8        250   118.0        300   141.6        400   188.8
.....            . ......    . .... ...               - ---              .... ....           ----
1900             381.0              552.1              216.4              205.6              188.8                                                                                      1543.9
...... ........ ....... ......... ...... ........ ... ................   ..... .......   . ....... ..... .............   -------    -------  ....... ------------------..
SECOND PHASE
1993    500                          800   400.0        400   200.0        250   125.0        300   150.0        400   200.0
1994    600                                             800   480.0        400   240.0        250   150.0        300   180.0        400   240.0
1995   1000                                                                800   800.0        400   400.0        250   250.0        300   300.0        400  400.0
1996   1000                                                                                   800   800.0        400   400.0        250   250.0        300  -300.0       400    400.0
3100                                400.0              680.0             1165.0             1500.0             1030.0              790.0              700.0               400.0         6665.0
TOTAL       5000             381.0              952.1              896.4             1370.6             1688.8             1030.0              790.0              700.0               400.0         8208.9
to
. 



-38-
Annex 1
page 8 of 11
Total Investment Costs
t '000 USS)
.........  ........................................  .......................................................................
------FIRST  PHASE  1900 Ha.----------SECOND  PHASE  5000 Ha. ---
YEARS      AGRI.  SOCIA  INDUST   TOTAL       AGRI.  SOCIAL  INDUST.   TOTAL
1982                               546                                   546
1983                               403                                   403
1984                              1203                                  1203
1985                              1584                                  1584
1986                              1787                                  1787
1987                              2182                                  2182
1988                              2237                                  2237
1989                              3872                                  3872
1990                              2764                                  2764
........                            .........
SUB-TOTAL                             16577                                16577
1991       381    250    1000    1631         381     250      1000     1631
1992       552    250    4000    4802         952     250      4000     5202
1993       216                     216        896                        896
1994       206                     206       1371     200               1571
1995       189                     189       1689     200               1889
1996                                         1030                       1030
1997                                          790     200                990
1998                                          700     200      1000     1900
1999                                          400              2500     2900
2000
2001                                                           1000     1000
2002                                                           2500     2500
SU8-TOTAL     154      500    5000    7044       8209    1300    12000    21509
T O T A L                            23621                                 38086
..............................................................................



-39-
page 9 of 11
Estimated Financial Rato of Return
1'000 -ulS
A) 1,900 HSCTARS                                                        8) 5.OO SECTAISS
AOl  KtLL  Am6.1  TOTAL              PROD   LESS     t.       AGRI  WtLL.  AM.1  TOTAL                IUCT   LESS    fIN.
YUAR  COST  TUIIS  COSTS  COSTS  SALES   REV.  IEVS?T  EVWEM    COSTS  TRAM.  COSTS  COSTS  SAL             i.    UIVZSTS SVETUO
.................................  ,,,.....,,..,..................    .....................
1982                                                  346    .546                                                     546   -.36
1983                                                  403    .403                                                     403    -403
1984                                                 1203   -1203                                                     1203   -1203
1985                                                 1584   .1584                                                     1384   .1584
1986                                                 1787   .1787                                                     1787   .1787
1987                                                 2182   .2182                                                     2182   .2182
1988                                                 2237   -2237                                                    2237   -2237
1989                                                 3812   .3872                                                     3872   -3872
1990                                                 2764   -2764                                                     2764   -2764
1991                                                 1631   .1631                                                     1631   .1631
1992                                                 4802   .4802                                                    5202   .5202
1993   478    204      68    750   1609    859        216     643      478    204      34    716   1610       894      896      .2
1994   591    238      83    934   203L   1097        206     891      591    238      42    892   2031    1139    1371    -432
1995   71    300    105   1156   2357   1201          189    1012      751    300      33   1103   2337    1234    1889    -835
1996   829    349    118   1296   2738   1442                1442      829    349      39   1237   2739    1502    1030        472
1997   824    392    122   1337   3084   1747                1747      934    402      67   1403   3165    1762       990      772
1998   874    436    131   1640   3421   1981                1981    1196    478       84   1738   3765    2007    1900        107
1999   907    449    136   1492   3530   2038                2038    1313    366    104   2183   4461    2276    2900    .624
2000   904    434    136   1494   3365   2071                2071    1896    706    130   2732   3366    2834                 2834
2001   899    451    133   1483   3545   2060                2060    2079    861    147   30$6   6781    3693                 3695
2002   890    445    134   1469   3497   2028                2028    2138   1015    158   3311   7985    4674    1000    3674
2003   889    429    132   1450   3372   1922                 1922    2297   1113    171   3381   8746    3163    2300    2663
2004   887    426    131   1445   3349   1904                1904    2375   1134    176   3706   906$    3362                 $362
2005   883    417    130   1430   3278   1848                 1848    2371   1168    177   3713   9171    3456                5436
2006   674    404    128   1406   *172   1766                1766    2362   1154    176   3692   9063    $373                 5373
2007   874    393    127   1394   j087   1693                 1693    2362   1143    175   3680   8990    3310                3310
2008   838    384    124   1366   3019   1653                 1633    2336   1134    174   3644   8911    3267                3267
2009   831    378    123   1332   2971   3619                 1619    2317   1117    172   3606   8777    5171                5171
2010   834    362    120   1313   2842   1327                 1527    2280   1088    168   3336   8344    3008                5008
2011   807    352    116   1274   2763   1489                 1489    2233   1036    164   3453   8292    4839                4839
2012   80    351    116   1272   2739   1487                1487    2231   1022    163   3416   8029    4613                 4613
2013   690    301      99   1090   2363   1275               1273    2116    959    154   3229   7332    4303                 4303
2014   634    277      91   1002   2177   1175               1175    2060    91s    149   3121   7171    4050                 4030
2015   494    218      71    783   1708    923                923    1920    831    138   2869   6529    3640                 3640
2016   312    137      45    494   1078    584                 384    1738    731    124   2613   3899    3284                328
2017   JCA    133      44    481   1048    367                 367    1699    736    122   2557   3782    3223                3225
2018   254    111      37    402    873    47L                471    1614    701    116   2431   5304    3073                 3073
2019   189      83      27    299    632    353               353    1490    651    107   2248   3111    2863                 2863
2020                                                                  1240    346      89   1875   4203    2410               2410
2021                                                                  1240    346      89   1875   4285    2410               2410
2022                                                                  1040    438      73   1372   3594    2022               2022
2023                                                                   800    332      58   1210   2765    1335               1353
2024                                                                   400    176      29    605   1382       777              777
..............................................................................................................
19386   8895   2828  31109  69890  38781   23622   15139   32928  23903   3842  80673 187892  107217   38087   69130
.....................~~~~~~~---.......................................... ..................................
ltlhBCLAL IU. WITOUT SiM COSTS            3.3Z                IItUICUL tRU. WITHOUT SUNK COSTS.            8.6T
SINUCUL In. WITH SNNK COSTSa              20.2S                *FICtAL tRU. WITH SUNK COSTSe               17.35
I/ ESTDATED AT IO  OF DIECT PRODDCTtON COSTS  OR 1.900 Ns, AN0 SS FOR 5,000 Sa.



-40-
Annex1
page 10 of 11
Economic Price Derivation
(US$/Ton)
PALM OIL         PALM KERNEL
World Bank Price Projections
(1991 Constant Dollars)            310                190
Overseas Transport & Insurance       40                 40
Price at Belem                      355                230
Inland Transportation Costs          30                 30
Price at Manaus                     380                260



-41-
Annex 1
page 11 of 11
A) 1.900 IECTAUS                                                       8) 5,000 MCr^AAS
AGRI   HILL.   AIM.   .OTAL            pRODUC   LESS   SCO.         AGRI.  KILL. AKXHtS.  TOTAL                 PRODUCT   LESS   ECO.
MEAR  COSTS  TRAM. COSTS 1/  COSTS   SALES REV.    7NVEs   REV.            COSTS  TRAM. COSTS 2/  COSTS    SALES   RVENUtE INVES   REV.
1982      0        0        0                             453    .453           0        0       0                                  453   -453
1983      0        0        0                             334    -334           0        0       0                                  334   -334
1964      0        0        0                             998    .998           0        0       0                                  998   .998
1985      0        0        0                            1315   -1315           0        0        0                                1315  -1315
1986      0        0        0                            1483   .1483           0        0        0                                1483  -1483
1987      0        0        0                            1811   -1811           0        0        0                                1811  -1811
1988      0        0        0                            1857   -1857           0        0        0                                1857  -1857
1989      0        a        0                            3214   -3214           0        0        0                                3214  -3214
1990      0        0        0                            2294   .2294           0        0        0                                2294  -2294
1991      0        0        0                            1354   -1354           0        0        0                                1354  -1354
1992      0        0        0                            3986   .3986           0        0        0                                4318  -4318
1993    39,      169       57      623   '609    986    179        807        397      169      28       594      1610    1016    744    272
1994    491      214       71      776   2031   1255    171    1085           491     214       35       740      2P';    1291   1304    -13
1995    623      249       87      959   2357   1398    157    1241           623     249       44       916      2;73    1441   1568   .126
1996    688      290       98    1076   2738   1662         0    1662         688     290       49      1027      2739    1711    855    857
1997    684      325      101    1110   3084   1974         0    1974         775     333       55      1164      3165    2001    622   1179
1998    725      341      109    1196   3421   2225         0    2225         993     397       69      145S      376      2306   1577    729
1999    753      373      113    1238   3530   2292         0    2292        1257     469       86      1813      4461    2648   3237   -589
2000    750      377      113    1240   3565   2325         0    2325        1574      586      108     2267      5566    3299        0   3299
2001    746      375      112    1233   3545   2312         0    2312        1726      714      122     2362      6781    4219        0   4219
2002    739      370      111    1219   3497   2278         0    2278        1775      842      131     2748      7985    5237    830   4407
2003    738      356      109    1204   3372   2168         0    2168        1907      924      142     2972      8746    5774   2905   2869
2004    736      354      109    1199   3349   2150         0    2150        1971      958      146     3076      9068    5992        0   5992
2005    733      346      108    1187   3278   2091         0    2091        1968      969      147     3084      9171    6087        0   6087
2006    725      335      106    1167   3172   2005         0    2005        1960      958      146     3064      9065    6001        0   6001
2007    725      326      105    1157   3087   1930         0    1930        1960      949      145     3055      8980    5925        0   5925
2008    712      319      103    1134   3019   1885         0    1885        1939      942      144     3124      8911    5887        0   5$887
2009    706      314      102    1122   2971   1849         0    1849        1923      927      145     2993      87)7    5784        0   5784
2010    692      300       99    1092   2842   1750         0    1750        1892      903      140     2935      8544    5609        0   5609
2011    670      292       96    1058   2763   1705         0    1705        1853      876      136     2866      8292    5426        0   5426
2012    668      291       96    1056   2759   1703         0    1703        1952      848      135     2835      4029    5194        0   5194
2013    573      250       82      905   2365   1460        0    1460        1756      796      128     2680      7532    4852        0   4852
2014    526      230       76      832   2177   1345        0    1345        1710      758      123     2591      7171    4580        0   4580
2015    410      i81       59      650   1708   1058        0    1058        1594      690      114     2398      6529    4131        0   4131
2016    259      114       37      410   1078    668        0      668       1443      623      103     2169      5899    3730        0   3730
2017    252      111       36      399   1048    649        0      649       1410      611      101     2122      5782    3660        0   3660
2018    211       92       30      333    873    540        0      540       1340      582       96     2017      5504    3467        0   3487
2019    157       69       23      248    652    404        0      404       1237      540       89     1866      5111    3245        0   3245
2020       0       0        0                               0                1029      453       74      1556     4285    2729        0   2729
2021       0       0        0                               0                1029      453       74      1556     4285    2729        0   2729
2022       0       0        0                               0                 863      380       62      1305     3594    2289        0   2289
2023       0       0        0                               0                 664      292       48      1004     2765    1761        0   1761
2024       0       0        0                               0                 332      146       24      502      1382      8$0       0    880
16090    73$2    2347   25820  69890  44070  19606   24464           43930   19841    3169    66960   187882  120922  33272  87650
ZCOUIC  l2s WITHOUT SUNK COSTS               5.6S                    ECONSIC  Me VtITUOtT SUN  COSTS                  8.9S
ECONC C  Ms VETS SUNK COSTS                 26.52                    ECON@7C IRA. itSE SUNK COSTS                    22.32
____._______________.__................................................................  ..............__._...___._______._............................__.__._____......................_  __..._
1/ BSTDI4TW  AT 102 0  DIRECT   oDUCTION COSrS
1/  SSTDATO AT 05S Of DIRECT   ODUCTIO  COSTS



A!vr  >                                                           -n                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SThATE OF AMA: 
ulAr0AloblAi/i')    2'                      /-\\ ~VENEZUELA  t+ tAGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
t ^,< ) $ $ /.9.'~~~~~~ .t3 '. A33:,l;] ~~~Project Areo
PfRj5   < l       A Z I L                          '.          .,1     l       
4  r S      i                         |  .2       (r                        ' /v              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~R O  R A I Ah A  
ARGENT1,                                                                                                                               r  t                        p A RA
, __ ~~~~~~~~~~do Cachoeira                                           jac ?f -,>;   
l)C  O L O    N B I A   .ri 
, 1 ~~~~~~~~T E F E r>s~ 
P, ,E   R  U   Jr/t
i v§2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L6ibfeoJ  
_PH  <   +                                            *'\               tr                       i    Sh 1$ ~~~~~M TO
<                                      " '     ,jbocer~~~~~~~~~~~~-1 do Acre      !  s<5G'R OSSO
i i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1|S. ANn:                                                                          ----r-ta41lt___ Rweds B-9n P.veJ
gp   25   r)                       >        @   s.csle cnplanl               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sicl.. F.d.rl,I LonJ
kllcmrslirei,t                                                                       
O,        If'0O                                             t'i
z   f    ;   __   n   ;   \  >  r  b  avdsI ! PlFe q1o v fr oeX n s ss; tA Nrs Af. rr P*** o_                                 rE
5010 f '7'- B) VAJt0 er'vhrwr#&
I  . e^- i 0t Ct BOLIVIA 



