Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3311-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF AMAZONAS
May 10, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981               May 6, 1982
Currency Unit  =       Cruzeiro (Cr$)               Cr$
US$1            =      Cr$94.75                     Cr$154.84
Cr$1                  US$0.0155                    US$0.0065
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PROJECT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$114.26)
corresponds to the cruzeiro November 1, 1981 exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CEPA-AM             Commissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola de Amazonas
(State Commission for Agricultural Planning)
COBAL               Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Brazilian Food Company)
CODEAGRO            Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario
(State Agricultural Development Company)
.
CODEAMA             Centro de Desenvolvimento, Pesquisa, e Tecnologia
do Estado de Amazonas
(State Center for Development, Research, and Technology)
COSAMA              Companhia de Saneamento de Amazonas
(State Water Supply Company)
DER-AM              Departmento de Estradas de Rodagem de Amazonas
(State Highway Department)
EMADE               Empresa Amazonense de Dende
(Amazonas Oil Palm Company)
EMATER-AM           Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural do
Estado de Amazonas (State Rural Extension Agency)
EMBRAPA             Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisas Agropecuarias
(Brazilian Agency for Agricultural Research)
INCRA               Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform)
INPA                Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia
(National Institute for Amazon Research)
ITERAM              Instituto de Terras do Estado de Amazonas
(State Land Institute)
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
POLAMAZONIA         Programa dos Polos Agrominerais, Agropecuarios, e
Florestais da Amazonia
(Special Program for Development of the Amazon Region)
POLONOROESTE        Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do
Brasil
(Brazil's Northwest Region Integrated Development
Program)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



POLONORDESTE        Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the
Northeast)
PRORURAL            State of Amazonas Rural Development Program
SEDUC               Secretaria de Educacao do Estado de Amazonas
(State Secretariat for Education and Culture)
SEPLAN-AM           Secretaria de Planejamento do Estado de Amazonas
(State Secretariat of Planning)
SESAU               Secretaria de Saude do Estado de Amazonas
(State Secretariat of Health)
SETRAN              Secretaria de Transportes do Estado de Amazonas
(State Secretariat of Transport)
SUDAM               Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento da Amazonia
(Superintendency for the Development of the Amazon)
TELEAMAZON          Telecommunications Company of the State of Amazonas
UEPAE-AM            Unidade Estadual de Pesquisas Agropecuarias no Estado de
Amazonas
(Agricultural Research Unit in the State of Amazonas,
part of EMBRAPA)



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF AMAZONAS
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:                 US$26.4 million equivalent, including front-end fee.
Terms:                  Interest at 11.6% per annum.  Repayment in 15 years,
including 3 years of grace.
Project Description:   The project is designed to support the state of
Amazonas' efforts aimed at expanding its agricul-
tural base, focusing on small-scale farmers, and
improving the food supply to the growing urban
population. The project would help: (a) raise the
income and living standard of some 9,500 families
operating farms of up to 100 ha; (b) promote a
sustainable and rational development of agricultural
production in suitable areas; (c) improve production
support and social infrastructure and services, and
(d) expand the state's capability to plan and
execute similar projects in other parts of the
state. The project would focus on a limited area
representative of the settled parts of the state.
It would promote food production and the rational
cultivation of tree crops, including an initial
1,800-ha slice of an oil palm development program.
Risks:                  Attempts to develop Amazonian regions entail threats
to the region's fragile and imperfectly known
natural and social environment. However, the
proposed project would chiefly encompass areas
settled for many generations.  The project would
promote agriculturally and ecologically sound
measures and improve the preservation of the flora
and fauna. All project activities would be
monitored to allow for the timely adoption of
additional protective measures. Numerous state and
municipal entities, some new, would be involved in
project implementation. Provisions for incremental
staffing, training, technical assistance, and



- ii -
improved inter-institutional coordination would help
achieve the required institutional strengthening.
To help reduce crop loss risks on floodlands, the
project would support an ongoing flood forecasting
program. Risks associated with the oil palm program
include the introduction of a new crop using a new
institution, and a farmer organization system
largely untested under local conditions. Despite
institution-building measures, favorable financial
inducement, and facilities to be provided to the
participating farmers, acceptance problems could
cause implementation delays. Close monitoring and a
mid-term review of this component would help in the
early detection of problems and elaboration of
remedial measures. The support lent by federal,
state, and local authorities and measures already
initiated to advance land tenure regularization and
institution-building suggest that potential
implementation difficulties would be dealt with
effectively.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
------US$ Millions-
Local   Foreign   Total
Agricultural Support Services
Studies of Natural Resources                        0.9       0.3       1.2
Land Tenure Regularization                          4.6       1.3       5.9
Adaptive Research                                   3.5       0.7       4.2
Rural Extension                                     9.0       0.5       9.5
Improved Seed Supply                                0.2         -       0.2
Marketing and Assistance to Cooperatives             1.8      0.5       2.3
Transport and Telecommunication                     6.9       2.6       9.5
Subtotal                                        26.9       5.9     32.8
Oil Palm Development
Agricultural Infrastructure                         4.0       1.5       5.5
Industrial Infrastructure                           2.4       0.8       3.2
General Infrastructure                              1.5       0.4       1.9
Overheads/Administration                            1.7       0.7       2.4
Subtotal                                         9.6       3.4      13.0
Social Services
Education                                           4.8       0.3       5.1
Health and Sanitation                               3.0       0.6       3.6
Community Development Fund                          0.7       0.3       1.0
Subtotal                                         8.5       1.2      9.7
Project Management
Coordination and Monitoring                         3.1       0.1       3.2
Evaluation and Special Studies                      0.8       0.1       0.9
Subtotal                                         3.9       0.2      4.1
Total Baseline Costs                               48.9      10.7      59.6
Physical Contingencies                              2.8       1.0       3.8
Price Contingencies                                11.4       2.5      13.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 1/                            63.1      14.2      77.3
Front-End Fee on Loan                                -        0.4       0.4
Total Financing Required                           63.1      14.6      77.7
1/   Including US$1.6 million of local taxes.



- iv -
Financing Plan:
-US$ Millions-----
Local   Foreign   Total
Government                                            51.3        -        51.3
IBRD 2/                                               11.8       14.6      26.4
TOTAL                                              63.1      14.6      77.7
Estimated Disbursements:
-----------US$ Millions Equivalent…---------
Bank FY                         1983 2/  1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Annual                           1.5        3.8    5.1    6.4    6.4    3.2
Cumulative                       1.5        5.3   10.4   16.8   23.2   26.4
Rate of Return:       21% for the directly productive components, covering
85% of total project costs.
Appraisal Report    Report No. 3869b-BR, dated May 10, 1982
2/   Includes front-end fee of about 0.4 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF AMAZONAS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$26.4
million, including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance an agri-
*          cultural development project in the State of Amazonas.  The proposed loan
would have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a new economic
memorandum is scheduled for May 1982. Country data are provided in
Annex I.
3.        The present government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its attention
has had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-
of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the government include
the growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on imported petroleum, expan-
sion of manufactured exports, and increasing domestic savings. Success on
these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living stand-
ards and better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        In the 13 years ending in 1980, Brazil enjoyed high economic
growth, with GDP rising at about 9% per annum. During the 1967-73 period,
growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the external
resource balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and there also
occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. However,
given the dependence of Brazil's industry and transport system on
petroleum, over 80% of which was imported, the quadrupling of oil prices in
1973 resulted in a sharp deterioration in the nation's terms of trade.
Excess aggregate demand and a succession of bad harvests, along with higher
energy costs, resulted in balance-of-payments difficulties and the
acceleration of inflation.
1/   Parts I, II, and III of this report are reproduced without substantial
changes from the corresponding parts of the President's Report on the
Second Northwest Region Rural Development Project - Mato Grosso
(Report No. P-3221-BR, dated February 26, 1982).



- 2 -
5.         Coping with these constraints, while responding to pressures to
maintain growth of output and employment and simultaneously establishing
the basis for structural adjustment, has been the central problem of
Brazilian economic management. At the same time that success was achieved
in maintaining growth, an innovative effort was launched to reduce energy
consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported petro-
leum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were contained
through the expansion of exports (particularly of manufactures), increased
import barriers, import substitution, and heavy external borrowing.
However, the rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports,
and intensification of inflationary pressures increased the economy's
vulnerability to further external shock, and that vulnerability was
severely tested by the sharp increases in petroleum prices and interest
rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
6.         Measures were taken in 1979 and 1980 to improve control over
public sector spending and monetary expansion. These included increased
central authority over the investments and borrowings of public enter-
prises, the phasing-out of tax earmarkings, and the reduction of consumer
and producer subsidies. Nevertheless, aggregate demand continued to grow
strongly, placing severe pressure on prices and the balance of payments.
In 1980, inflation accelerated to 110% (from 41% in 1978), and, despite a
32% growth of exports and significant reduction in the volume of petroleum
imports, the current account deficit grew to almost US$13 billion (compared
to $6 billion in 1978). At the same time, Brazil's international reserves
fell from US$11.9 billion to $6.9 billion, and terms tightened on new
foreign borrowing.
7.         In response to the deteriorating situation, and strengthened by
the institutional reforms of the previous two years, constraints were
imposed on aggregate demand in 1981, and efforts to correct the trade
balance were increased. The public sector deficit and the monetary aggre-
gates were reduced in real terms. In an effort to encourage private finan-
cial savings and maintain export incentives, monetary correction and
exchange rate adjustments, which were allowed to lag in 1980, were brought
back into line with inflation. Banks were freed from interest rate
controls on their lending, and rates were increased on official credit
programs. Some tax incentives to exports, which had been eliminated in the
wake of a large devaluation of the cruzeiro at the end of 1979, were
restored, while the foreign exchange transactions tax on imports was raised
from 15% to 25%.
8.         As a consequence of these measures, the economy entered into
recession in 1981. Despite an estimated 8% growth of agricultural output,
GDP declined around 4%. The industrial sector was hard hit by high
interest rates and cutbacks in public expenditures, and unemployment has
increased in the industrial centers. Manufactured exports, however, have
continued to grow rapidly (32.6% in nominal terms), and a merchandise trade
surplus of US$1.2 billion was achieved in contrast to deficits of $2.8 bil-
lion in both 1979 and 1980. The 1981 surplus also reflected zero growth of
imports, including the further reduction of petroleum imports. Despite
sharply higher interest payments abroad, the current account deficit was



cut by some US$2 billion.  Inflation for the year was reduced to 95% with a
steadily declining trend evident through the second half of the year.  No
problems were experienced in obtaining the US$11.5 billion in net external
financing required in 1981. In contrast to both 1979 and 1980, foreign
exchange reserves increased by US$600 million in 1981. Total medium- and
long-term external debt outstanding at year-end was about US$61.4 billion.
Poverty Programs
9.        Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to efforts to maintain the growth of employment and
prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the northeast
region have been continued notwithstanding the tight fiscal and monetary
restraints. Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and
extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is
now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Almost two
million loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank (BNH)
since 1964. Improvement and extension of the primary health services to
the urban and rural poor is a government priority in the health sector. A
program for grassroots health and sanitation actions for northeast Brazil
was initiated in 1976. A sites and services program was established in
1975 to benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was complemented in
1977 by a program to finance home improvement and building materials. High
priority has also been given to the extension and improvement of urban
water supply. Consequently, some six million households comprising about
30 million people have been connected to public water supply systems since
1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers who receive such services
to 75%. 2/
Future Prospects
10.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce petroleum
imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated, and foreign
companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS,
the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear power production,
to substitute alcohol for gasoline, to expand domestic coal production, and
to exploit Brazil's shale oil deposits. Efforts are also being made to
induce energy conservation. While results thus far are encouraging,
dependence on imported energy remains formidable. With oil imports consti-
tuting an estimated US$10.3 billion (nearly 44% of Brazil's imports) in
1981, as compared to US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off
between growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a
principal preoccupation of economic decision-makers.
2/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR,
dated July 13, 1979).



- 4 -
11.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Accelerated
devaluations of the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements,
the phasing-out of tax subsidies to exports, and the gradual freeing of
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments may continue to be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years, and foreign lenders,
including the Bank, should be prepared to finance a significant proportion
of project costs including a part of local costs when necessary.
Furthermore, priority attention has to be given to the development of
domestic energy sources, agriculture, and the stimulation of domestic
savings.
12.       Growth is expected to recover to about 5% in 1982 and to average
about 6% per annum in 1981-86, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in
1973-80. Such a growth rate should be compatible with a gradually
declining current account deficit. The debt service ratio would also
decline slowly. These projections are sensitive, however, to petroleum
prices, interest rates, and the rate of growth of manufactured exports.
The combination of high debt service and a high share of petroleum in total
imports leaves the economy vulnerable, and this may be expected to persist
for several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Brazil's resource balance is expected to become positive in
1982, but interest payments on the external debt will increase throughout
the 1982-86 period, even if interest rates should decline. Thus, large
service account deficits will contribute to current account deficits
through 1986. As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is
projected to fall steadily from its peak of 5.4% in 1980. This projection
assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace through 1985, reflecting
restrained demand, and a strengthening of the domestic savings effort.
14.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to
be around US$9 billion in 1982, and to decline thereafter. Gross borrowing
would be about US$16 billion this year and remain in the US$15-16 billion
range over the five-year period, with 70% obtained as financial credits
from private lenders. Consequently, the net debt service ratio 3/ would
decline from about 54% in 1981 to about 39% in 1986.
15.       In summary, after a period of rapid growth in the late 1960s and
1970s, the increased cost of petroleum imports has forced the nation to
moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic structure to the
changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially eased by a
strong reserve position, a solid image of creditworthiness, the aggressive
expansion of manufactured exports, and the opportunities for efficient
import substitution offered by the large domestic market. Nevertheless,
3/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1980 the
public sector accounted for 61% of total debt service payments.



- 5 -
heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of inflation, and the
rapid accumulation of external debt left the economy vulnerable to external
shocks. The government recognizes the need for careful demand management
and for selectivity in its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in
export expansion, import substitution, employment creation, and poverty
alleviation.
16.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and interest rates makes projections subject to a wide margin of
error. The present scenario also depends on Brazil's ability to curtail
inflation, expand manufactured exports, and on its access to international
capital. A major effort is underway to reduce dependence on foreign petro-
leum, but significant results may not be apparent for several years. On
the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and
resilient. The task of economic management will not be easy, but policy-
makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing circumstances,
and recent policy measures have strengthened their management capacity.
Thus, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms
in the amounts indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
17.       By March 31, 1982 the Bank had made 110 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$6,310.8 million (net of cancellations), of which 58 were not yet
fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per
year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 mil-
lion in FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and US$378
million in FY81. The total undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1982 was
US$3,003.5 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. So far in FY82, four loans totaling
US$346.4 million for the first and second phases of Bank participation in
the POLONOROESTE program have been approved and the documents for a
US$182.7 million loan for a power distribution project have already been
distributed to the Executive Directors. Work is relatively advanced on
rural development projects in the states of Maranhao and Bahia, the third-
phase project of the northwest region development program, an urban devel-
opment project in the city of Recife, and a large iron ore mining project
in the Serra dos Carajas.
19.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1980 amounted to US$63 billion, and is estimated to
have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981. At the end of 1980, the Bank
held 3.9% of the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1980
was 2%. In 1981, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated
to have risen slightly to 4.2% while its share in total debt service
remained constant. These percentages are not expected to rise signifi-
cantly in the next five years.



- 6 -
20.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil totaled US$819.5
million, of which US$546.2 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$273.3 million, US$207.6 million represent loans and
US$65.7 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of March 31,
1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
21.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the
government achieve important development objectives which are
interdependent. One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the government to develop projects that will increase the
productivity of the lowest income segments of the population, to broaden
the opportunities open to those groups, and to improve their living
conditions. It is to these ends that the proposed project is directed.
Previous loans for nutrition, primary education, vocational training,
agricultural research, agricultural extension, polder construction in the
lower Sao Francisco river basin, and integrated rural development were
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in
the northeast and the northwest. The Bank is currently reviewing its
experience over the past ten years in the Northeast of Brazil and is
working with the Government to identify possible complementary approaches
to the region to assist the rural poor. Loans for water supply and
sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in
the northeast and in the south, loans for urban transport in several major
cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost housing, and a loan for
urban development in medium-sized cities are assisting the improvement of
the living conditions of the urban population, particularly of the urban
poor.
22.       Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, establish adequate coordination and control
within the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure that
they are used economically through rational selection of projects.  This
institution-building objective is particularly important in the proposed
project which seeks to build up planning and administration required at the
state and local levels for agricultural development activities. It is
expected that the experience gained from this project could be applied in
suitable areas elsewhere in the state.  Loans for urban development,
electric power, railways, industrial finance, highways, agricultural
research and extension, rural development, water supply and sewerage,
and alcohol and biomass energy development also have important
institution-building objectives.
23.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange con-
straint on development by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production
for imports.   Lending for the electric power sector supports the
aforementioned objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and
its development lessens the need for petroleum imports.  Bank support of
fertilizer and petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute
large-scale efficient domestic production for imports and thus aid its
balance-of-payments position. The alcohol and biomass energy development



-7-
project addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum imports. Much
of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports
and highways - is designed to facilitate the economical flow of exports.
24.       A final objective is to provide part of the large medium- and
long-term capital inflows that Brazil needs to sustain satisfactory growth
and achieve its employment creation and regional development objectives.
Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil and encourages others
to contribute to the country's development.  In some sectors, especially in
electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain
additional resources in greater amounts and on more favorable terms from
bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions than may
otherwise have been provided. Thirteen co-financing operations, for more
than US$500 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial
institutions and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Sector Performance, Constraints and Policy
25.       Agriculture continues to be an important sector in the Brazilian
economy. It employs about 36% of the economically active population, and
contributes about 10% of the GDP and half of export earnings. Brazil is
the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the largest
producer of sugarcane, and the third largest producer of soybeans. Other
agricultural exports include mEat and fish products, cotton, cucn, peanuts,
cocoa, castor oil, and sisal. Coffee accounted for 45% of total export
earnings in the mid-1960s, but its share had dropped to around 14% (1980).
About 66% of Brazil's natural rubber consumption is covered by imports at
present. In most years Brazil has been self-sufficient in basic food
production, except for wheat. The average annual agricultural growth rate
in the decade to 1980 was about 5%.
26.       Constraints on agricultural production, particularly for small
farmers, include: limited access to institutional credit, extension
services, and modern agricultural inputs; inadequate supporting services
and infrastructure for marketing, storage and transport; and uncertain land
tenure and highly uneven land distribution. Brazil has traditionally
relied on an expansion of its development frontiers to increase its
agricultural production. This trend is likely to continue in the decades
to come, despite productivity gains expected from stepped-up inve ments in
agricultural research. During the 1981-85 period, in part due to the
expansion of biomass energy programs, it is estimated that up to 2.8
million ha of new land will be cultivated annually.
27.       Agricultural development has been assigned high priority in
Brazil's Third National Development Plan (1980-85).  Major policy objec-
tives include:  (a) the increase of basic staple and export production,



- 8 -
especially by small- and medium-scale producers; (b) improvement of
production, storage, transport and marketing systems; (c) expansion of
agricultural research and extension activities; and (d) decentralization of
agricultural policy execution and the increased participation of the
private sector, and state and local governments. Government measures aimed
at stimulating agricultural production and raising rural incomes,
particularly among small-scale producers, include support of special
programs such as POLONORDESTE in the northeast, and POLONOROESTE and
POLAMAZONIA in the Amazon region. To help develop Brazil's Amazon region,
a Superintendency for the Development of the Amazon (SUDAM) was established
in 1966. The POLAMAZONIA program was set up to promote investments.
Several development efforts, including the Transamazon Highway and a
free-trade zone in Manaus, were funded by the federal government.
28.       An aspect of Brazil's agricultural policy has been the provision
of agricultural credit at subsidized interest rates which, with the high
level of inflation, are negative in real terms. The subsidies were
introduced to induce an expansion in agricultural production by offsetting
the high cost of inputs and by giving special assistance to disadvantaged
groups. To remedy the increasingly apparent economic and administrative
drawbacks of the system, the government has begun to increase nominal
interest rates for agricultural credits, as well as to reduce the
eligibility of larger-scale farmers and specific end-uses for subsidized
funding, and has indicated that it intends to continue reducing these
subsidies over time.
Bank Involvement in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
29.       Bank-assisted operations in Brazil's agricultural sector combine
an area development approach, which focuses on poor rural areas in the
northeast and northwest, with a functional approach designed to further
needed institutional and policy improvements. To date, the Bank has made
23 loans totaling US$895 million for agricultural and rural development in
Brazil. Of these, twelve, including the recently approved projects for the
northwest region, were for rural development; two each for irrigation,
livestock development, agro-industries and agricultural research; and one
each for land settlement, agricultural extension services, and grain
storage. In addition, Bank loans for fertilizer production, nutrition
research and development, and secondary and feeder roads are having a
direct impact on agricultural production and rural development. A rural
development project in the northeastern state of Maranhao is scheduled to
be presented to the Bank's Executive Directors during FY82. Completion and
Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the grain storage
and the two livestock development projects. In each of these three
projects, significant differences developed between the government and the
Bank regarding interest rate policy, leading to some cancellation and/or
early repayments of the loans. Project Performance Audit Reports are
currently under preparation for an agro-industry credit project and the
Alto Turi land settlement project.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.        The project was identified with the help of a Bank mission which
visited the state of Amazonas in March 1980. Several preparation missions
followed to assist the state in designing the project. The project was
appraised in October/November 1981. Negotiations took place in Washington
on April 26 and 27, 1982. The Brazilian delegation to the negotiations was
led by Mr. Marcos Luiz da Cunha Santos of the Federal Secretariat of
Planning. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Brazil: Amazonas Agricul-
tural Development Project" (No.3869b-BR, dated May 10, 1982) is being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary data are
provided in Annex III of this report.
Project Area
31.        The state of Amazonas, with a total area of 1.5 million kmn2, is
the largest state in Brazil, and encompasses about 18% of the national
territory and 40% of the country's Amazon basin region. The population of
the state in 1980 was 1.4 million. Average population density is about
0.9/km2, the lowest in Brazil. About 50% of the state population is
rural with 44% of the total population concentrated in Manaus, the state
capital. Some 6% of the state's area is accounted for by periodically
flooded lowlands which are generally very fertile, as a result of periodic
sedimentation. Uplands, of low fertility, represent about 82%, of which
about one-third is estimated to be capable of sustaining agriculture
(mainly tree crops) with adequate fertilization. The remaining 12% of the
state is accounted for by rivers, permanent lakes and marshes. The contri-
bution of agriculture to the state's economy has declined over the last 20
years. The share of the active population employed in agriculture has
declined from 70% in 1960 to about 50% in 1980, while the sector's share of
the state's GDP has decreased from 23% to 21%. Traditional extractive
activities (wild rubber, timber- and nut-gathering) still account for a
substantial share of the state's agricultural production. The state of
Amazonas is dependent on food imports from other states to supply its
fast-growing urban population.
32.        The project area (see IBRD Map No. 16251-BR) covers some 16,000
km2 and includes parts of six municipalities bordering the Solimoes and
Amazon rivers. It is divided into three main areas. The western munici-
pality of Tefe (600 km upstream from Manaus) would be the site of the
proposed oil palm development scheme. The two other development foci would
be the central municipalities of Careiro and Manacapuru (near Manaus), and
the municipalities of Urucara, Barreirinha and Parintins (about 350 km
downstream from Manaus). The climate is warm and humid. Annual rainfall
varies between 2,000 and 2,500 mm. Some 14% of the project area is
accounted for by floodlands of good quality for annual cropping. In
general, the floodlands cannot be economically protected against the
floods, and the farming system has to be adapted to this periodic
flooding. Uplands of low fertility make up some 77% of the area. About
40% of the generally well-drained upland soils is suitable for tree crop
cultivation or small-scale planted grasslands under appropriate soil
management. Favorable combinations of climatic and soil factors, parti-
cularly suitable for high-yielding oil palm cultivation, are found in



- 10 -
the Tefe area. The project area has been partially occupied for
generations and its population is estimated at about 140,000, of which 65%
is rural.  It comprises about 120 communities located in the lowlands and
bordering lands and 30 additional communities in the uplands. The
population density is about 9.5/km2 (compared to 0.9 for the entire state).
33.       The main economic activity in the project area is agriculture,
with industry limited to sawmills and jute-packing plants. Only about 1%
of the project area is cultivated. Farm units of less than 10 ha represent
about 25% of total units but account for only 2% of the farm area. Farm
units larger than 100 ha represent 5% of total units and occupy some 40% of
farm area. Land ownership in the project area is confused because of
incomplete records and overlapping claims. The State Land Institute
(ITERAM) has intensified efforts to clarify the situation since 1979. At
present, about 80% of the project area's farmers have only a right of occu-
pation. The main crops are fibers (jute and malva), rice, corn, cassava
and vegetables on the flood lands, and cassava and fruit trees on the
uplands where new rubber plantings are also being tested. Cattle are
raised primarily by medium-scale farmers. The estimated per capita income
for 90% of farm families to be served by the project varies between US$180
and US$300, compared to an estimated relative rural poverty income level of
US$330 for Brazil.
34.       Productive and social infrastructure and services in the project
area are deficient. Agricultural extension services are thinly spread and
inadequately staffed. The main government credit agencies operating in the
area have few outlets and employ cumbersome procedures, restricting
farmers' access to credit. Private intermediaries constitute the main link
between farmers and markets. The State Agricultural Development Company
(CODEAGRO), which is responsible for marketing services, has been burdened
with multiple unrelated activities and weak management until a recent
reorganization. The few existing cooperatives lack managerial experience.
The farm communities located in the uplands are poorly connected by
primitive farm tracks to inadequate river transport facilities. Rural
electrification and telephone services are practically non-existent.
Primary schools can barely accomodate half the school-age population and
this only under inadequate conditions. The health facilities are in a poor
state of repair and many are closed for lack of qualified staff.
Project Concept and Objectives
35.       The proposed project is designed to support the state's efforts
aimed at (a) expanding its agricultural productive base, focusing on the
small-scale farmers operating farms of up to 100 ha, who constitute the
majority of the rural population; and (b) improving the food supply of the
rapidly growing urban population. Consistent with these objectives, the
project aims at: (a) raising the incomes of some 9,500 small-scale farmer
families; (b) promoting a sustainable and rational development of agricul-
tural production; (c) improving production support and social infrastruc-
ture and services; and (d) expanding the state's capability to plan and
execute similar projects ensuring a close involvement of local communities
in this process. The project would focus on a limited area representative
of the already settled parts of the state, and would promote food-crop
production models on floodlands and the rational cultivation of tree crops



- 11 -
on selected uplands, including the introduction of oil palm cultivation in
the Tefe region. Project design and appraisal have placed emphasis on
institution building and monitoring and evaluation with a view to ensuring
that this first pioneering project could be replicated elsewhere in the
state.
Project Components
36.       The project would include:  (a) natural resource studies and
agro-ecological zoning; (b) strengthening and expansion of land tenure
regularization services, agricultural research, rural extension, and
marketing and input supply services; (c) implementation of the initial
1,800-ha slice of a 10-year 5,000-ha oil palm development program; (d)
improvement of infrastructure, including expansion of land and river trans-
port and telecommunications facilities; (e) the strengthening of education,
health and sanitation infrastructure and services, and of community devel-
opment activities; and (f) establishment of project management and coordi-
nation, including monitoring and evaluation. Additional support activities
such as agricultural credit, minimum price purchase mechanisms and
financing for recurrent costs would be provided by the Government. The
project is expected to be carried out over a period of about five years
beginning April 1982.
37.       Natural Resources Studies and Agro-ecological Zoning.  In order
to promote the proper use and preservation of the region's natural
resources, this component would support efforts to better identify these
resources, and to collect and analyze data for flood forecasting and
environmental studies. These activities would support project-specific
agricultural extension services and adaptive research work, as well as
longer-term development planning for the area. The component, to be super-
vised by the state Center for Development, Research, and Technology
(CODEAMA). would provide for the preparation of topographical,
hydrological, vegetation, soil, and agricultural aptitude maps of the
project area. Five hydro-climatological observation stations, the
identification of about 1,600 km2 of biological and 20,000 ha of forest
reserves, vehicles and equipment, consultancy services, staff training and
incremental staffing, and operating costs would also be financed. CODEAMA,
assisted by consultants, would, by April 1, 1984, prepare a mapping manual
for future use in the project area and elsewhere in the state as an initial
step toward a general agricultural zoning effort.
38.       Land Tenure Regularization.  This component would help improve
security of tenure for project farmers. Land tenure regularization
activities would include scrutinizing land claims, identifying legal claims
and public lands, and subsequently demarcating and legalizing ownership.
The land rights of about 9,500 project beneficiaries would be legalized.
Titles to individual or community holdings would be provided, the latter
where based on a strong local tradition for communal action. Full owner-
ship titles would be provided for upland holdings. Only use rights would
be granted for floodland holdings because of the specific demarcation
problems in flood plains and the state government's desire to closely
control their use. The full cost of demarcating and titling project
farmers' plots would be recovered, in accordance with existing ITERAM
regulations which are satisfactory. In addition, the component would



- 12 -
help demarcate and control the biological and forestry reserves provided
for under this project. Additional staffing, consultancy services,
equipment and vehicles, and initial costs for the forestry and ecological
reserves establishment and protection would be financed under the project.
ITERAM would execute all land tenure regularization, demarcation, and
control activities. Issuance of titles for lands under state jurisdiction
would be the responsibility of ITERAM, while the National Institute for
Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA) and the municipal prefects would
issue title for those lands under federal or municipal control.
39.       Adaptive Agricultural Research.  The agricultural research
activities would complement the ongoing research, including research on oil
palm and rubber, being carried out by the Brazilian Agency for Agricultural
Research (EMBRAPA) under two Bank-financed research projects (Loans 1249-BR
and 2016-BR). Emphasis would be placed on selecting and adapting varieties
and cultivation techniques. EMBRAPA's state-level agricultural research
unit (UEPAE-AM) would be the executing agency. The proposed component will
help finance the establishment of two applied research outposts. Other
items to be financed include consultancy services, incremental staffing and
operating costs, the research work to be subcontracted to other agencies,
and radio equipment. UEPAE-AM would publicize each year, in a manner
satisfactory to -the Bank, the results of the proposed research activities
(Section 4.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       Rural Extension.  The State Rural Extension Agency (EMATER-AM)
would be apgraded to provide technical assistance to some 150 communities
of project beneficiaries (about 9,500 small-scale farmers) in order to
improve their agricultural production techniques. It would also promote
education in nutrition, sanitation, and home economics. EMATER-AM's exten-
sion method emphasizes community organization and group work. The proposed
component would support these efforts by helping finance some 96 additional
agricultural and social extensionists, and 32 senior extensionists and
subject-matter specialists. It would provide for consultancy services to
assist in extension methods, training for extension staff and farmers, and
establish about 400 demonstration plots to disseminate research results.
Office facilities, vehicles and equipment, and related incremental
operating costs would also be financed.
41.       Seed Supply.  The state recently initiated a program for
producing certified improved seeds suited to local conditions. The compo-
nent would assist in the implementation of the program in the six selected
municipalities by helping to expand and upgrade the technical staff
assigned to the program and by providing additional seed storage facilities
and equipment. The component would be carried out by CODEAGRO. Basic
seeds, provided by UEPAE-AM, would be multiplied by selected farmer
cooperatives with the assistance of EMATER-AM. Storage and distribution
would be the responsibility of CODEAGRO. Timely implementation of this
component hinges upon the early availability of a seed-processing unit, and
additional storage, grading and cleaning facilities already being construc-
ted with government funds. These facilities would be completed no later
than December 31, 1982 (Section 2.01 (e) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 13 -
42.       Marketing Services.  The proposed component would help to better
organize and coordinate existing alternate marketing channels, including
those operated by the private sector.  It would support staff training and
technical assistance for a three-year pilot scheme under which the
Brazilian Food Company (COBAL) would help improve the supply of basic
consumer goods to small-scale farmers through a network of supply posts
operated directly by COBAL, cooperatives, or private merchants. COBAL has
carried out similar schemes successfully in other states. CODEAGRO would
also promote and coordinate work needed to develop new options for
marketing of the project area's subsistence food production. As part of
this effort, CODEAGRO would, on a pilot basis, implement recently
simplified procedures for the federal government-sponsored minimum price
crop loan and purchase mechanism. The component would also help improve
fruit and vegetable marketing by small-scale farmers by supporting
improvements in transport and handling facilities, producers' retail
markets, and the market information service.  The component would also
assist ongoing activities coordinated by CODEAGRO to test and produce
agricultural equipment and tools adapted to local conditions.  Technical
assistance would also be provided to CODEAGRO and the project area
cooperatives to help improve their management and operations, and to assist
CODEAGRO in implementing the studies required for planning and designing
producers' markets and improving the market information system.   In order
to allow CODEAGRO to deal effectively with its responsibilities, the state
government has initiated a program to reorganize the company and streamline
its operations. No later than December 31, 1982, the government would
employ consultants to help finalize and implement the reorganization
program. The cost of produce transportation services provided to the
project farmers by CODEAGRO would be fully recovered (Section 2.01 (f) of
the draft Project Agreement).
43.       Transport and Telecommunications.  The transport component would
include: (a) the construction of 24 floating platforms and the experimental
clearing of about 30 km of small creeks, to facilitate freight and passen-
ger river transport and improved feeder services by small boats; (b) the
construction or improvement of about 400 km of farm tracks and the rehabil-
itation or construction of about 100 km of feeder roads; (c) the purchase
of light maintenance equipment to support largely manual maintenance works
by municipalities and the training of municipal foremen; and (d) consulting
services to strengthen the State Secretariat of Transport's (SETRAN's)
capacity for planning, and the establishment and operation within SETRAN of
a team comprised of a coordinator, two engineers and two assistant engi-
neers to coordinate and supervise planned transport activities.  The state
government would present to the Bank, no later than June 30 of each year,
an evaluation of the transport component activities during the previous
project fiscal year, with a view to allowing adjustment of future work pro-
grams. Prior to initiating feeder road, floating platform, and track
construction works, SETRAN will enter into agreements with the municipali-
ties concerned to define their respective responsibilities for the funding
and implementation of maintenance activities. The project would also
provide telephone connection to the fifty most populated communities, a key
element of support for other project activities such as rural extension,
marketing and health services. The beneficiary communities would be
selected with the assistance of EMATER-AM. The State Telecommunications
Company (TELEAMAZON) would be contracted to acquire, install, and assist
the municipalities concerned in the operation and maintenance of the equip-
ment. The component would provide for the installation of one public



- 14 -
pay phone in each of the communities, and the expansion of the interurban
telephone system from two to five project municipalities. User charges
would cover operation, maintenance and investment costs.
44.       Oil Palm Development.  The state government intends, through a
pioneering oil palm scheme on state-owned land in the western region of
Tefe, not only to demonstrate the suitability of this crop to the area
(and thereby stimulate the private sector's initiatives), but also the
interest of small farmer involvement in these developments. To ensure
viability of the necessary investments, including factory and port infra-
structure, about 5,000 ha would need to be planted. However, because of
the time needed to build up the necessary implementation capacity, the
planting program would be phased over a nine-year period, for a total
investment (in April 1982 US dollars) of US$35 million, about US$7,000 per
planted hectare. The component would cover the first five-year time slice,
helping develop about 1,800 ha. It would include: (a) final surveys of
about 30,000 ha; (b) construction of about 20 km of access road; (c) import
of high-yielding hybrid seeds; (d) settlement of the first 225 farm
families in one new village; and (e) establishment of the administrative/
processing center including office, warehouse, workshop, staff housing,
first-stage milling and port facilities.
45.        This first five-year slice would have a total investment cost of
US$13.7 million including the recently created State Oil Palm Company's
(EMADE's) operating costs and overheads which would be capitalized during
the pre-production period and the cost of technical assistance and consult-
ancy services. The state government would provide EMADE with an amount of
US$4.3 million equivalent as equity; the remaining US$9.4 million equiva-
lent would be a loan repayable over 20 years, including 7 of grace, with
interest at 6% per annum and full monetary correction. EMADE would be
responsible for the establishment and operation of the scheme through
training and hiring of field labor from participating families. Partici-
pants would be selected from among the area's small-scale farmers and
organized into groups of 25, each group tending 200 ha of oil palm and
small individual family plots for food crops. During the first eight
years, participating farmers would draw their income from wages received
from EMADE for work performed and from their food crop plots. Participa-
ting farmers would initially be granted use rights on their alloted land
and would subsequently be entitled to receive definite collective or indi-
vidual titles, thus becoming shareholders eligible for a share of EMADE's
profits. This would be contingent on their agreement to repay over an
eight-year period the full cost (including monetary correction) of the
agricultural infrastructure and housing provided under the project, esti-
mated at some US$27,800 per family (April 1982 terms), or a yearly repay-
ment of about US$3,500 to be deducted from the yearly dividend. It has
been estimated that EMADE would distribute annually to participating
farmers about 50% of its net profits. A participating farmer would thus be
expected to receive, after full repayment of his debt, a net dividend of
about US$3,000 equivalent, in addition to his wage as field laborer and the
income from his food crop plot.
46.       These execution arrangements are designed to facilitate the
introduction of a technically demanding new crop with a long immature



- 15 -
period under conditions where farmers' technical capacity is low. The
farmer group approach is in line with local tradition. EMADE would enter
into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with participating
farmers providing for the farmers' rights and obligations in respect of the
land alloted them and EMADE's capital. The model for such contractual
arrangements would be furnished to the Bank no later than June 30, 1983
(Section 2.01(1) of the draft Project Agreement). EMADE's key managerial
personnel would comprise a project manager, a field manager, an administra-
tive/financial manager and, at a later date, a processing manager and a
maintenance manager. The project would provide for training of EMADE staff
as well as eight man-years of consultancy services to help strengthen
EMADE's technical, financial, and managerial capabilities. A condition of
disbursement for the component would be the appointment of the first three
members of the above-mentioned key EMADE managerial personnel and the
employment of a senior field management adviser (Paragraph 3 (e) of
Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). Prior to calling for bids for
project-financed milling facilities, the state government would provide the
Bank with satisfactory evidence of progress in the oil palm planting
activities and would employ a senior processing adviser on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank. The federal and state governments would
take all measures to ensure the implem--ition of the entire 5,000 ha oil
palm development program, including the provision, in a timely manner, of
financing required for the share of this program not covered under the
proposed project (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.03
of the draft Project Agreement).
47.       Education.  The component would seek to increase access to and
improve the quality of rural primary education and to help upgrade the
non-formal adult education system. Under the project, about 140 new
primary schools (equivalent to 9,000 additional student places and
including canteen facilities) would be constructed and equipped and 50
existing schools would be renovated. Some 850 courses and seminars for
teachers, literacy trainers, and administrative and supervisory staff would
be provided. Curricula, coordination and monitoring of education
activities in the project area would be upgraded. These measures together
should raise the project area's primary student matriculation rate from 45%
to about 90%. The State Secretariat of Education and Culture (SEDUC) would
be the executing agency. Consultancy services to help develop the new
curricula and carry out other relevant studies would be provided. No later
than April 1, 1985 the primary school curricula would be put into effect
and the school meal programs would be implemented throughout the project
area. Prior to initiating school construction or renovation work in any
municipality, the state would enter into agreement with that m nicipality
defining teacher salaries, responsibilities and funding arrangements for
maintenance, and the provision of educational materials and supplies and
school meals (Section 2.01 (i) of the draft Project Agreement).
48.       Health, Sanitation, and Rural Water Supply.  Given the virtual
absence of effective primary health care in the rural areas, the proposed
project would emphasize simple community-based actions to provide basic
health education, vaccinations, prenatal and child health care, and first
aid geared towards the most common occurrences. The component would
provide for incremental supervisory staffing and training for 60 health
attendants, 60 midwives and 10 supervisors and sanitation officers. These



- lb -
primary health care activities would be closely associated with EMATER's
social extension and community organization efforts, and complemented by
efforts to improve the patient referral service. Primary health facilities
would be established in the Tefe region to support the oil palm development
scheme. Waterborn diseases are important causes of morbidity and mortality
in the project area. The project would provide for the construction of
3,200 sanitary installations, 47 simple water supply and 10 purification
systems. Emphasis would be placed on training the communities in the
proper use and maintenance of these facilities. The State Secretariat of
Health (SESAU) would be the executing agency. The construction of deep
well and ancillary systems would be contracted out to the State Water
Supply Company (COSAMA). Consultancy services would assist in training,
preparation of field manuals, studies of local health and sanitation condi-
tions, and monitoring and supervision of component activities. Prior to
initiating construction of water supply facilities in any municipality, the
state government would enter into agreements with that municipality and
the beneficiary local entity, establishing responsibilities for maintenance
and funding arrangements (Section 2.01 (j) of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
49.       Community Development Fund.  To supplement EMATER-AM's efforts
towards community organization, the project would support the creation of a
Community Development Fund which would lend a total of US$1.0 million equi-
valent for small community-sponsored activities relevant to project objec-
tives but not included in the other components nor financed by other
existing institutions or programs. The fund would be administered by the
State Commission for Agricultural Planning (CEPA-AM); the Amazonas State
Bank would be the financial agent. Financing requests would be submitted
through EMATER-AM and reviewed by the project coordination unit described
in paragraph 57. Activities to be financed by this fund would be
production-oriented and revenue-generating and could include such items as
infrastructure improvements, or production and transport equipment. No
later than April 1, 1984 or when commitments under this fund reach
US$250,000 equivalent, whichever comes first, CEPA-AM would evaluate the
results achieved under this component in consultation with the Bank before
committing the fund to further activities (Section 2.01 (k) of the draft
Project Agreement).
50.       Activities Parallel to the Project.  On-farm seasonal, invest-
ment, and marketing credit would be provided principally from existing
credit programs. Since these operate with highly negative real interest
rates, credit was not included in Bank financing for the proposed project.
However, the federal government would ensure that adequate credit was made
available in a timely manner to the project beneficiaries (Section 4.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement).   Incremental credit requirements for the 9,500
directly assisted farmers have been estimated at US$16.3 million equivalent
for on-farm investment and cooperative credit, about US$12.4 million
equivalent for seasonal credit, and about US$5 million for marketing credit
and working capital for EMADE.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost exclusive of farm credit of the proposed five-year
project is estimated at US$77.3 million equivalent, of which about US$14.2
million would be foreign exchange equivalent. The total includes about
US$1.6 million equivalent in local taxes. Physical contingencies were



- 17 -
estimated at about 6.5% of base costs.  Price contingencies equal to 22% of
base costs plus physical contingencies were calculated in US dollars for
both foreign and local costs on the following basis:  8.5% in 1982, 7.5%
for 1983-85 and 6% from 1986 on. A breakdown of the estimated cost is
shown in the Loan and Project Summary on page iii.
52.       The proposed loan of US$26.4 million, which includes about US$0.4
million for the capitalized front-end fee, would finance 35% of the
net-of-tax project cost, covering the foreign exchange component and
US$11.8 million equivalent (about 19%) of local costs.  It is reasonable
for the Bank to finance this portion of local costs in order to make a
meaningful contribution to a project designed to improve the income and
living conditions of relatively low-income farmers. Retroactive financing
of up to US$0.7 million equivalent would be permitted to help cover
eligible expenditures incurred after April 1, 1982. The federal government
would contribute the balance of the project cost.
53.       Procurement.  The oil mill first-stage equipment and equipment
installation, amounting to US$3.1 million, would be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding. Vehicles, boats, tractors and other equip-
ment (totaling about US$8.1 million) needed by various participating
agencies, and to be acquired in relatively small lots over the five-year
execution period, would be procured in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures which are satisfactory.  Special equipment for creek
clearing (totaling about US$200,000) would be procured by international
shopping. Construction of various buildings in different components
(totaling US$9.1 million) would be grouped into packages suitable for local
competitive bidding. In the case of access roads and the other scattered
transport works (totaling US$10.3 million) local competitive bidding would
also be used, with works suitably grouped into packages; where the remote-
ness or size of works so dictates, force account would be permitted.
Construction standards, bidding and contract documents for civil works
would be reviewed by the Bank before the first round of bidding. Since
individual construction works would be of minor size, scattered and quite
diverse, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested, although
they would not be excluded. Telecommunication equipment (totaling
US$180,000) would be procured through negotiated contracts because of
standardization requirements and would be installed under force account.
Water supply works (US$70,000), clearing or opening of small waterways
(US$300,000) and other small and scattered construction works would be
executed under a combination of self-help and force account.
54.       Consultancy Services.  About 30 man-years of consultancy serv-
ices, for a total cost of US$3.0 million equivalent, would be required to
help strengthen institutions involved in project execution, support the
implementation of planned activities, and provide staff training. The cost
of such services, exclusive of contingencies, would average US$6,450 per
month including individual fees, travel and local allowances. It is
expected that most consultants could be contracted from within Brazil, but
it is likely that some 110 man-months of consultancy services, mainly those
required for the oil palm component, would be internationally recruited.
The selection, qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment of these consultants would be in accordance with Bank policies
and procedures (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 18 -
55.       Disbursements.  The proposed loan would be disbursed against 33%
of all project expenditures, except for selected oil palm and natural
resource study component consultancy expenditures for which a rate of 100%
would be applicable. In order to reduce the interval during which the
Government would finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own
resources, the Government may request the Bank to make advance payments in
dollars from the loan account into a Special Account to be opened in the
Central Bank (Section 2.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government
would be entitled to make withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account
upon submission of withdrawal applications to the Central Bank. Conversion
from dollars into cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that
prevailed on the date the expenditures on the project were made. The
Central Bank would forward the withdrawal applications to the Bank, which
would then renlenish the Special Account. Supporting documentation for
minor civil works by force account and for salaries and operational
expenses would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the
agency responsible for their certification and would be made available for
inspection by the Bank during project supervision missions. Standard docu-
mentation covering contracted civil works, vehicles, equipment and tech-
nical assistance would be submitted to the Bank. Disbursements would be
conditional upon receipt by the Bank of satisfactory evidence that (a) the
first three members of the key managerial personnel of EMADE and a senior
field management adviser had been appointed for the oil palm component;
(b) the respective coordinating units had been appointed for the transport,
education, health, sanitation, and water supply components; and (c) the
participating agency coordinator had been appointed in the case of any
other components. An additional condition of disbursement for each compo-
nent would be that the component execution agreement or arrangement had
been finalized (Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement). The loan
is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1987.
Accounts and Audit
56.       Participating agencies would maintain separate accounts of
project expenditures, which would be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the participating agencies'
audited statements would be provided to the Bank within six months of the
end of the project fiscal year.   These reports would include an opinion
(and comments as necessary) on the methods employed in the compilation of
the statement of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting
documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal agree-
ments and the standard of record keeping and internal controls related to
the foregoing (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement). The Special
Account would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
57.       Project Coordination and Management.  The state established
PRORURAL in 1980 as the organizational framework for coordinating all
state-sponsored rural and agricultural development activities. The
proposed project would be coordinated within the PRORURAL organization
which includes an inter-agency management council chaired by the state
Governor. The council, a deliberative body, delegates its general admin-
istrative functions to an ad hoc Executive Committee, consisting, in the



- 19 -
case of the project, of the state secretaries of rural production,
planning, and special affairs, and the General Coordinator of CEPA-AM. The
day-to-day coordination of the project activities would be the
responsibility of a special project coordination unit (PCU) within CEPA-AM,
headed by a Project Coordinator. He would be assisted by a monitoring and
technical assistance unit, an administrative unit and consultants,
particularly to help establish relevant organizational, financial and cost
accounting procedures. He would also be assisted by five field
coordinators and the EMADE project manager in Tefe. Each of the other
participating agencies would also appoint a full-time component coordinator
who would maintain contact with PCU. The state government would, as a
condition of disbursement, enter into written project execution agreements
or arrangements with all the executing agencies involved. These
arrangements would provide guidelines and targets for the execution of each
component, understandings and procedures regarding disbursements of funds,
reporting requirements and a framework for collaboration with other
entities. Similar execution agreements or arrangements would also be
entered into by the executing agencies and the collaborating agencies or
the municipalities and local entities outlining their respective
responsibilities in the specific area of collaboration. Agreements with
participating municipalities would spell out their responsibilities and
funding requirements with respect to the operation and maintenance of
project-financed facilities. The project consultancy and technical
assistance funding would in part be made available to assist municipal
authorities to improve administrative procedures, including tax collection,
in order to complement the assistance currently provided under several
programs of this type.
58.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  A project monitoring system would be
established and managed by PCU's monitoring and technical assistance unit.
Information provided by the executing agencies would be consolidated by PCU
into quarterly monitoring reports which would be sent to the Bank no later
than two months after the end of the quarter. PCU and the executing
agencies, with the assistance of project-financed consultants, would
develop standardized monitoring procedures and manuals. EMADE would
prepare monthly progress reports and balance sheets. Summary data from
these reports would be included in the quarterly monitoring reports.
Evaluation of project activities would be the responsibility of CODEAMA.
The project would provide for the establishment and training of an evalua-
tion team within CODEAMA. Evaluation activities would consist of baseline,
ad hoc, annual, and post-project reports and studies to be carried out with
the assistance of consultants.  A review of the oil palm planting activi-
ties would be carried out prior to installation of the first-stage milling
facilities expected to be initiated by mid-1985.
Benefits and Justification
59.       The proposed project would promote a rational use of available
resources, and would help diversify small-farmer activities from the tradi-
tional cultivation of subsistence crops into more commercial agriculture
and permanent crops. The impact of the project on agricultural production
in the project area is expected to derive from a moderate expansion of the
area under crops and improved pasture, productivity gains for annual and



- 20 -
perennial crops and livestock, and a reduction in post-harvest losses. The
production increases are assumed to come mainly from some 8,800 farmers who
already operate in the project area, and from about 700 new farmers who
would settle spontaneously in the communities of the project area.  At
November 1981 prices, the economic value of the incremental annual produc-
tion at full development (by 1995) is expected to amount to US$43.4 mil-
lion. Of this, 43% is due to traditional food crops, 8% to vegetable and
fruits, 33% to fiber and tree crops and 16% to incremental production of
beef and milk. There are solid market opportunities for the incremental
production to be generated by the project.  Traditional foodcrops, veget-
ables and fruits would find a ready local market. The demand for such
industrial crops as guarana, rubber and oil palm is growing rapidly, and
for the latter two crops Brazil is expected to remain a net importer at
least until the turn of the century.
60.       At full development (by 1995), the weighted average annual farm
family income would increase (in April 1982 terms) from US$1,900 at present
to about US$6,100, or US$1,020 per capita, for the average 6-member
family. Even the approximately 75% of project beneficiary families whose
expected incomes would be slightly below the overall weighted average would
achieve per capita annual income levels ranging from US$920 to US$970, as
compared to the Bank's currently estimated relative rural poverty per
capita income level of US$330 for Brazil. The intensification of
cultivation and the development of perennial crops in the project area
would create employment for an equivalent of 10,000 fully employed field
workers per year, nearly entirely drawn from family labor.
61.       Substantial marketing tax revenues would be derived from
project-generated production. Some US$3.8 million equivalent per year
would accrue, at full development, to the state government, while an esti-
mated US$2.6 million equivalent in recurrent costs would be required to
maintain the infrastructure and services established under the project.
The state government would also recover much of the cost associated with
the oil palm program through loan repayments, dividend distribution, and
other taxes paid by EMADE (paragraph 45). The operating and maintenance
costs associated with project transport, telecommunication and water supply
services would be recovered from the beneficiaries.
62.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return for the
directly productive aspects of the proposed project (representing about 85%
of total project costs) has been estimated at about 21%. The separate
economic rate of return for the oil palm development component has been
estimated at 14%. For various other aspects of the project such as educa-
tion and health, sanitation and water supply components, which have signif-
icant but not readily quantifiable benefits, no economic rate of return was
calculated. It has been assumed, for the purpose of the economic analysis,
that the entire 5,000 ha oil palm program would be implemented. The cost-
stream included all on-farm incremental investment and operating costs,
off-farm investments in infrastructure and services directly related to
agricultural production and the recurrent cost of maintaining these
services during the 25-year period of analysis. The benefit stream
included incremental agricultural production from the project's direct
beneficiaries (9,900 farmers when accounting for the entire 5,000 ha oil



- 21 -
palm program). The estimated rate of return of the project is fairly
insensitive to likely variations in costs and benefits.  A reduction of 50%
of the value of the benefits would reduce the economic rate of return to
15% and a 20% increase in costs and reduction in benefits would lower the
economic rate of return to 18%. A three-year lag in benefits would reduce
the economic rate of return to 17%.
Impact on the Natural Environment and the Aboriginal Population
63.       The project would improve the information base about the project
area's natural resources and environment, and promote measures for appro-
priate protection of the soil, forest and fish resources. Although the
project chiefly addresses areas already under cultivation, it would provide
a base for improved land use and zoning (para. 38). It would also provide
better training for the extension staff to assist the farmer in selecting
better farm and plot sites, and to promote improved soil management and
environmental protection techniques. The project would help identify,
demarcate and protect various biological reserves, preserving a combination
of forests, marshes and lakes (180,000 ha). Assisted by the Manaus-based
National Institute for Amazon Research (INPA), the project would promote
measures for protecting river borders and natural fish breeding and feeding
habitats.  Finally, the project would also help monitor the possible intro-
duction by migrants of Schistosomiasis and Chagas diseases not yet detected
in the project area.
64.       The project area has long been settled and most of its aboriginal
Amerindian population has already been integrated into rural towns and
villages and would be potential project beneficiaries.  In the municipality
of Tefe, several small groups with a long tradition of contacts and commer-
cial exchanges with modern Brazil are found along the Solimoes river out-
side the project area.  The project will not interfere with the rights of
these communities and is not expected to have any negative impact on their
welfare and activities.
Risks and Uncertainties
65.       Attempts to open up Amazonian regions to development are known to
entail potential risks arising from threats to the region's fragile and
imperfectly known natural and social environment by rapidly advancing, un-
controlled pioneering fronts. There are fewer such risks in the case of
the proposed project as it would primarily encompass areas occupied for
many generations. The project includes measures for promoting the agri-
culturally and ecologically sound use of the area's natural resources,
simultaneously improving the preservation of the flora and fauna. All
project activities would be closely monitored to allow for the timely adop-
tion of additional protective measures. Implementation of project
activities would involve numerous state and municipal entities, some new,
and most requiring considerable strengthening. Provisions for incremental
staffing, training, technical assistance and inter-institutional coordi-
nation, adequately address these institutional risks. Inability to
accurately predict floods entails a special risk of crop losses on the



- 22 -
floodlands.  To help reduce this risk, the project would support an ongoing
flood forecasting program initiated by the federal government, and would
help study the feasibility of a flood insurance scheme. Among those risks
associated with the proposed oil palm program are the introduction of a new
crop using a newly established institution and a farmer organization system
largely untested under the local conditions.  Despite the strong insti-
tution-building measures and the favorable financial inducement and facili-
ties provided participating farmers, acceptance problems could cause imple-
mentation delays. Close monitoring and a progress review of oil palm
planting activities, to be carried out in 1985, would help in the detection
of problems and elaboration of remedial measures. Undoubtedly some unex-
pected developments will occur particularly with regard to implementation
of the smallholder oil palm component. However, the potential for creating
a better, more stable income base for an impoverished rural population out-
weights the risks involved. The support lent to the project by federal,
state and local authorities, and measures already initiated by the state to
advance land tenure regularization and institution-building efforts, sug-
gests that potential implementation difficulties would be dealt with effec-
tively.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brzil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Amazonas and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
the Annex III. Condition of disbursement are listed in paragraph 55.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
69.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by E. Stern
Attachments
May 10, 1982
Washington, D. C.



-  23  -                                           ANNEX I
PaXe I Of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICAIORS DAIA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE RACES
LANJ) AKL.A  ThOUSAND bQ. KiM,)                                                       -  QMUST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            8512.0                                  MOST RELENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
ARICULTIURAL    2077.2                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE L       LATIN AMFRICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
4SF PER GAPITA (USS)                   320.0        570.0    1780.0                    1616.2                    2609.1
ENER(.Y COSIUMPTION PER GAPIIA
(KCLUGKAMib UF GOAL EQUIVALENT)     392.1        565.0    1061.5                    1324.1                     2368.4
POPULAIION AND VITAL STATITILCS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (IRoUSANDS) 71513.0       95322.0  116539.0 *
URBAN PuPULATION (PERGCNI OF TOTAL) 46.1          55.9       64.1                     64.2                       53.2
POPULATION iROJECTEUNS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MiLLIONS)                        176.5
SIATIONARY POPULAIION (MILLIONS)                          281.0
YEAR bTAlIONARY POPULAIOuN IS REACHED                    2075
OPUELAIION DLNSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         8.4         11.2       13.7                     34.3                       80.6
PER SQ. KM. A(RICULTIURAL LAND     44.1         50.5       55.1                     94.5                      133.9
POPULAIOUN AGE STRUITURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YKS.                           43.6        42.7       41.5                     40.7                       30.1
15-t4 YRS.                          53.8         54.3       55.1                     55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ANbOVE                    2.6         3.0        3.4                      4.0                        8.3
POPULATION  K,WITH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.0         2.9        2.2                       2.4                       1.5
URBAN                                5.5         4.8        3.8                       3.7                       3.1
RKUJE F11H RATE (PER THOUSAND)        42.5        37.0       29.4                      31.4                      22.9
RiUjjL DLATH KATE (PER THOUSAND)      12.9         10.5       8.7                       8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0         2.6        2.0                       2.3                       1.6
FAMIlY PLANNING
ACCrPETRb, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       111.0      203.6
UbEKS (PERLENT OF MiARRIED WOMEN)    ..          1.6
FUOD AND NUKIITEON
INDEX UF FOOD PRuDULTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            89.0       102.0      114.0                    108.3                      119.8
PEK CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQOUIREMFLNTS)                 101.0        104.0      107.2                    107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMb PER DAY)            61.0        62.0       62.7                     65.8                       92.5
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         34.0        34.0       35.1                     34.0                       39.7
CDIll,  (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     17.3         12.0       8.3                       7.b                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7          59.1       62.7                     64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORIALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            128.0          ..       92.0                     70.9                       25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOIAL                                 *-        56.3       77.1                     65.7
URBAN                                 ..        77.7       88.8                     79.7
RURAL                                ''         29.0       56.8                     43.9
ACCESS IO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
oTOAL                                 *-        59.9       64.8                     59.9
ERBAN                                 *         86.1       83.7                     75.7
RURAL                                 ..        26.5       31.7                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2561.2      2123.8    1700.0                    1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2772.1      2992.3         ..                   1288.2                      896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              307.0       269.0      247.7                    471.2                      262.3
URBAN                              325.6       322.6         ..                    558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         18.0        ..                        ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.1         4.8        4.9
URBAN                                 *-         4.6        4.7
RURAL                                ..          5.2        5.3
AVERAGE NSMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                             1.1
URBAN                                             1.0
RURAL                                 *-          1.2
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               38.7        47.6       63.0
URBAN                                 *-        75.6       84.9
RURAL                                 ..         8.4       19.2



-  24  -                                            ANNEX I
page 2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MO ST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
EDUCATIQN
ADJUSTEI ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 95.0        125.0       88.0/c                   101.7                      105.9
MALE                  97.0        125.0       87.07W                   103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                93.0        125.0       88.07W                   101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         26.0       24.0/c                    35.3                       66.3
MALE                  11.0         26.0       22.07W                    34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                10.0         26.0       26.07W                    35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (0 OF SECONDARY)  19.0            17.0      47.0/c,d                  30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-IEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0         28.0       22.0/e                    29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                           13.0         13.0       13.07W                    15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         66.2       75.7                      80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         24.4       53.6                      42.6                       83.9
kADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          66.4        123.8      155.0                     215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PEK THOUSAND
POPULATION                          16.8         64.0       97.9                      89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST ) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0         37.0       45.2                      62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0             1.9       1.9                       3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22869.1        30078.5   36718.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.5         20.4       22.6                      22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.9         45.6       39.8                      35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.8         18.3       21.8                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE ;PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0         31.6       31.5                      31.8                       42.3
MALE                                   52.7         50.3      48.9                      49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                11.2          12.8      14.2                      14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4          1.4        1.4                       1.4                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEhOLDS        ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0           63.5       62.0.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8            3.2        2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8            9.0        9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..      150.0                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN            -                     .           ..      465.0                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      332.0                     362.2                      385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOWi ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group a-erages tor each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on a-ailability of data and is not uniform.
Ib   Unless otherwise noted, data for 19t0 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are noc comparable with earlier data;  /d 1974;  /e 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in the
1981 World Atlas are US$2,050 (at 1978-80 prices) and 119 billion.
April 14, 1982



-  25  -                                                                         ANNEXKi
P.s   of  5
ltYflINlTttN OF StudA, INDICATORS
fNoor:  Although the data are amr fro    natgnral  jdged the sost sotbhrita  tossd raliabis, it should also b  totd th.r they -f not ha  ite-
ntionlly c-perable be-a..e of the lakof_          adadeddfItinead concpts need by dtffersmt... outots, in colsI.tiog the dat.-   The.aaae es
thebe., -mef.11 tdestrtbe ordera of  oanioude, itdi--t trn         -,ad o        traectanaordttffersecs  beteeco. toes
The reerenc  annoy  are  1) th  same  nu Str  trou  Ofil   subec  conty ad(2) sonunty grooP with anmnha  higherasrg -         moose t ho  the   . oon,tr  senor
majriY of. th  coontrias inagrou-p hoe dais for thot hd icno.itn  the  --rge of ro-r-i aog-                       h ndctr d     epensn  the  -eilbility of date
one toct   I atat _ amon      ..accntry ood  rfrec  gro_p.
Total - Total.. eufocare  c                Ipiitludae nd.ilnote.ohc   n  rural) dinidedlby thier respectIve- nsher of hospital  ed
faicln-Pl-1   ten mat   of  dgn kcltoa   caue   epoaiynhennnlyoolhat   olc n.eo                                                    eee  erd spe-ia-ted hospitalbedr-
.oc cropa, peturat, earke  ond kinchoctandate cc t  lie tahoe;  PS date.    hahiit8tdon  rantrs.liospltei  areg estltlitdi nte i      eri.  setly staffe
la   f  AITA(c)-_  c   e  caia  atote          onrt markat pnie.cl,ia   ateenoEoldr. Rural hosias-                                             hmvr  tocdlod    es
colaed  f eet ccceeto  arcod  a Onld  ockAtls (977-79 beete); 1960,               admdclcceentprawtysafdb      hsoe   htb 
1970, and 1979 dan-ndoa   einatnre  nidmifa, wncPt .( whic -ffrinpoinao
Ah ... 1                                         -t~~~~~~~~~daion eod Provide a Ileited rag   f medical 1 faute.-fa s.tatc
and ligloe. peroleum   natura  gao ad hyd-,nc Aur,dgolomlea-a   oe  hoptlb. locallor rurald WcptHO admeia.admnenr
crdlp   i t   lcon.fcc.oncln   a  oIpito  l9tf, 1 970, nod 1979                                 cetn.cailedhsptl   r   nlddol  unde  toa.1   hp I.
date.                                                                 Odatleehone crc lospitel Bed - Intel nonber of admiasinne to or dischargesdi..J..  tll H i,.1 
fcre hosPitlsl divided by the moher of hedm.
Totl  oplalon  Md-ea  (tcocude  -As of July 1; 1967, 1979, and 1979              HOCSING
data.                                 R   --    b.i                                          noeago coado of IoeodCoen   e   oshl)- totel. urban, and coral-
mntoice; 1961, 19~71. and 1909 doho..                                                    ahnaod  o                          Inaorlproo.
p                                                                                                -d ctPojc  on  cnuouheto   ennice  oetoa,oIaR        ad  oa 
Ponlatotin  or11        ococpplconpoot-ear   aa   c19                                     hnr of cenhone pen noon -i1 alpra,adr             l occupied connan ddcta
Pojacci   i- p  yaguntcwc. fotdu1980aomrlnfirennoan                                      oI.v.. .-dpond yucca.. g
inklif    nanepu bid  -nocao  mc-d                otp'   a  capIta:,J,,,  icos             cos  cciocicit  _creto  delns     ttl   ra_                           oa
lo il,en  foul-- lfe  oocnpuotitgon7.   er,m    ae                                       ocotba   al rect -lactniotty  ttlinn    oot
nd farci    " y 'lcyItrends fo  prjenh,p-yeo.cdfecd tci-leent roanos                                                                                   .d   ..
tcnthocary oooolotloo-lnuetonnoonr    p_yla  .ion cln   a  ogothsoePnmc ico   -d nocal. nab  and fmle P- irne  oa ,maean   e
thetnohrae inqooltoo         f-no hcat, -  -ndlmthedarcntr-enoletfalaaiborer...n    acwbteo  nswhm
nooconuo.fb   c   cIee  ol  atr  eti n  ruti.delic _ lto                                 rmaysholaoEoulc e;cralycclde  hl rtaedai
nioroplthceeenn            -"-.. lonofuntnrPcnd-ciocth-abrJa.   genertoco                      pram.l.  hE- jl-  ccccfreolnthoyrmredotom    o
ifeuncytn   Oceo-  ntc hI 17.h The. ncIocy  pp,     tttacene Ionintt                                      ure    dotiweroleo    o  eced11pecn
teio   r TIehale 1 of - dtho  p   ftjcoe   horcotielica of. obdouaicaonsa  ppl   r   rn   raoe    eofca                                         lae
.... bo.onrcir                                                                                sal   f1)c   7paeofag;cna pond- mm  co dran  er d 6aaal1
Pornluton un  inrucore (nhcecc    I i)nc  7l I-aa   cnlg-g   1"-pr                                --r Patd  l -eodr  blanl  diie       mohr-ftaceei  h
-alotin fcc t 797-7,17-5,no  f9 12 Psene                                                                  larm(pe  yboueao  fn"PtI'-,aeegrcaecpie   oo
pouaIn  160,171,an  1971 dntc.                                                           )cay  eile
P..lrrntlendoctptohaieprocsp ota-lcthcfer-                                                     aeteo.ne     ll        ,Yl.I dcetfacddabytrrecan    peua  eynth thearl.Ieshn
tnl np coos;  ana ip fhon-eor  oarCahildtn  I  1910,  1970,-and  (1979               mai at ctndo a--u ld  loentn...dlY-Tt    -It--.dl
1.  fvlr1950l60 -leas 0(rocet o nanhdnnro  - aceta-o-arit1ciuno  and in                                             . ya ,-Iatn oef~ietmi-icn nET   eets. ne-nefa
not  c   hidhenn   nn(1-h9ernM     b  oa   cc-ccrldriot                             lNSUonnnuaco   crronodorTION)     toeteaeaatc
P777P11 c7liSci96   197is  'daly"7cf i  apeashan Penan four tinewe.1...h.
OClda Dci rood PrdoOncclnt   1t--11       ne   fprcpt  unnallotem                                      y a -aihicedcc   e  lne  o   ra-uedottonobno
pconouc. P ci  oo  rmadln-ta.. Prduction.,   ....de   ad. af    fa  andI.            tIicke.tsJsold dutgoeyerpnidlgaeehost   rnei   ia
hanoouono  ycar . Ian.    79 od.itin  innrlrhor,goda(eg.--groc-on  nabl  cma
El..rn ploded)   d                  -neoo   c -oclnf daioog crIthaed; IbItdtl
pa -dy   colal  nfy) la  oayl         doeei  pr9ocio,  Ispn7 elee                   not79ompotaile   9     17   r  17   aa
to,'Ypore   n   tno    -naok    e            nop -naold  acnl ed,b         ed,Pen f poenceo    t -reaialabrfrehdecoaa  ftillbnfre
Pe cntonumL      fconn   Iaeor-r)-PoeI   oto   f pen mcc                                   r        pcc ban io lute hcocant -pii,  ae adfoaaPncoptnn
a                     not~~~~~~~ hupplo o-lfoo  pn   o.co   npp  fIc  coneilc.'odhas alon.hm-and-                           cne  r   on-e  an   I"l  nela  and f'et. labor  fore-
cobol  cr00-      a   0aerg   o  chnnnl,-rnpaa  b                , fA pir,rh  Il_rd         tnnoni Itord- rnoy intc-ltlo   ooit   unn  1kn  1   ndot
rot d--t orftoln focdibdorn        - urnl od-it an-Pontoon d mopl                                             -di-food do-
nood iron oninala acd rolama On gcuna por day; 1911-cS, 1977 cod 1977 date. ~~~~f..  ..d  dllYgRllrOy..
Itr_Ocm  d   _c  d -ond-f - pteoula;  90 1970- 1mCId          d 199duct,                      ofi.  .b-o-u       th...abolde..iIy-i   P
Itulot                                                                                   rlicctl00I010  tla
Life tpaocnco acnlrtilonos)-_P. .vrg   ..uab.n     .  ..o . ct, lif  nontoto            Th1lo0g aiaa    nc  rc  apccet   oere  ipcrplrl
at iltrh   19.1977 nod 1979...  dor..nd  h                                                               bld hr  60  197rrea   dit  roo Ooril  ooto
ofae do ohnocdloobtle                                                                    halc  porp       1oe    blcdl_-a          oalie   oocir       iia
Anoanin cin kuan (arnoo  of  coul-t00)cnna, oro,udrrl     o-otlnonl    dqordlnpluooo In)... .oc-fod                                                     ..q.tcma .c ...
ofthIrrdpo..rppoacdr,                    Ioanob t ynuapulIbtrcnlmon                                     Ifctrovr-.    rbn  iedIndiledicnfgnoa
oradnrdi an l  1961o6a   1970o rnno -bl   197n7  ofd-   on.   nrrlaeu                     elac Ponlonolln   hnlce0000   gIcim  Leeizlonl   
coas-oolYI curoduen l d.toy. Nbo P I ol      f honcf-dcoeicso  inbnalR.ndr-o    -er-a                                    d Ii p -plln  (oba_lI rrl   b   no"hcoa
dcnrbutfoyoond    _Prnorl.'acpcrofd tApcfoho                     npo"
ofchlrepocneppoatoe. mretodipt'iappcld
la  n  nnlato - t.    lf7ag7  19.01  ...                                               90  17,   d9
Prooloihoconrturnion 'oron    f- Pplthocd-lded byothr  fcrmdon
__Ynd)maedador9osn   . pr-ocbcoaA corona .nodan.c..uor.uneeA



-  26  -                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 ofS
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population         t19.0 cilLion (1980)
CNP Per Capita:  JS52,050 (1980)
Amount                    Average Annual Increase (X)                 Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
Indicator                       (Million US$ Current)              (at Constant 1970 Prices)                         (at Current Prices)
1980              1965-70   1970-75    1975-80    1981-86        1970    1975    1979    1980 /b   1985
National Accounts
Croons Nonoati: Product /a                            248,200                7.7       10.6         6.9        6.0       100.0   1C0.Cr  10.0   100.0         100.0
Agriculture                                          23,365                1.9        5.7        4.7         5.2         8.2      8.7      9.-      9.4       9.4
lodantly                                             71,590                9.2       11.6        7.6        5.9        29.1    32.6    71.9    28.8          31.8
Services                                            111,365                8.0       10.7        6.8        6.2        43.0    41.3    .2.5    44.4          42.5
CnunorLon                                             221,040                7.7        9.8         5.7        5.7        76.9    78.6    79.    80.5         76.3
r5os5 In-estnent                                       52,460                9.4       14.6         5.2        6.0        23.5    25.4    22.o    21.1         22.9
Ep-rts of Goods and NFS                                21,305                8.2       11.2        7.3         8.2         6.6      7.4      9.2      8.6        9.7
Lnport, of Goods and NFS                               26,575               14.5       17.2        2.8        5.9          7.0    11.4    !1.6    10.7          8.9
Croon Donextic Savings                               47,160                7.9       12.9        6.1        -          23.1    21.4    20.0    19.5          23.7
Amont                     Average Annual Increase (%)               Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(Million US$ Current)              (at Constant 1970 Prices)                         (at Current Prices)
1980              1965-70          1970-75          1975-80      1966        1970          1975        1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchac1dine Fepolrro                                 20,132                 7.8             11.9              5.8       120.0       100.0        100.0        100.0
Pr'i nuop                                           11,092                 7.3             8.3              1.1        82.9        75.1          61.8        55.1
Oanoufnctores                                        9,040                 7.9             28.2            18.2         17.1        24.9         38.2        44.9
1errcnandise loprt                                    22,961                10.0             17.6            -1.4       100.0        100.0        100.0       100.0
Food                                                 1,239                -3.8             -6.7            17.5         11.5         4.5          3.0         5.4
Petr-],.co                                          10,210                 9.3              7.6             4.3        14.7         11.2         24.5        44.5
Machi-rr  oo,d 5qulnnaot                             4,392                22.1             15.2            -7.5         15.2        21.2         14.0        19.1
C)rer                                                7,120                 8.3             28.4            -1.9        58.6         63.1         58.5        31.0
1975           1976            1977           1978            1979           1980
Prices and Terma of Trade
GD? Deflator (1970 = 100)                                     305.1          444.3           632.7           892.5        1,399.4        2,724.6
Exchange Rate (Cr5/CO,)                                         8.1            10.6           14.1            18.1           26.9            53.5
Export Price Index 11970 = 100)                               176.0           192.0          226.0          228.0           266.0           290.0
Inport Price loden (1970   110)                               242.0          255.0           286.0          317.0           389.0          431.0
Terms of Trade Inden (1970 = 100)                              72.0           75.0            79.0            72.0           68.0            67.0
As X of GDP
(at Current Crozeiro Prices)
1970            1975              1979 /b
Public Finance (Central Goeeronent)
Current Reveenoe                                                                    16.6             19.8              20.8
Content Expendittre                                                                 14.4             15.8              17.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                           2.2              4.0               3.2
Capital Expendicure                                                                  2.6              3.8               3.7
Fina,cing (Net)                                                                     -0.4              0.2             -0.5
1965-70           1970-75            1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (X)                                                                 7.7               10.7                5.8
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (%)                                                      4.6                7.7                3.0
Energy Consamption Growth Rate (%)                                                  7.2                7.3                6.5
ICOR                                                                                2.q                3.0                3.9
Marginal Saeings Rate                                                              20.5               25.7               22.7
Import Elasticity                                                                   2.2                1.6                0.3
/n   At .arket prices-; natponents are net domestic products expressed at factor coot and will not add due to excluni-n of depreciation and indirect
taxes lens sabsidies.
/b Pre-lminary Ecoone-t Mission scheduled for May 1982 will update the fioal data.
May 5, 1982



- 27-
Page 5 of 
8ALACS OF  PAUIglS, ZIMAL  CAPITAL .II1  an
(6-       09) aS  cnest pel)
Population:        119 ulliloc 11980)
GNP Per CapIta   1SS2,050 (1980)
ACTUAl                                                                                          PItOJECUD
1975         1976        1A7           1978         1979          1998        1987               1982         1983         198o         1985         1996
Balance of Paystots
ban  enporta of goods and serooces                                  -6,702       -6,018       -4,037        -6,086      -10,039      -12,564      -11,173           (-8,770)    (-7,533)    (-5,735)    (-4,095)          (-979)
Export. of goods                                                  (8,670)    (10,128)    (12.120)    (12,659)    (15,244)    (20,132)    (23,293)                 (27,757)    (32.770)    (38,740)    (45,143)   (52,596)
Intents of Goode                                                (12,210)    (12,383)    (12,023)    (13,633)    (18,084)    (22,955)    (22,080)                  (23,648)    (26,065)    (28,937)    (32,505)   (36,992)
Net factor iocoae                                                -1,733        -2,189       -2,556       -3,257       -4,921        -6,621       -9,569           -9,687       -10,609      -11,397      -11,990    -11,153
Co vic  nricterest payssuna)                   1-1,498)     7-1.8101     (-2,103)    (-2.696)    (-4,185)    (-6.311)    (-9,179)               (-7,365)    (-8,246)    (-9.020)    (-9.631)    -89863
Men  oc-fa.o  ..seroice                                         (-1,429)    (-1,574)    (-L,579)    (-1,805)    (-2,378)    (-3,120)    (-2.837)                  (-3.192)      (3,628)    (-4,141)    (-4,744)   (-5,429)
Net trac.f-cs                                                            2             1            -           71           18          168           197              197          197           197          197         197
Correun acco-c  balance                                             -6,700       -6,017       -4,037        -6,015      -10,021      -12,396      -10,976            -8,573       -7,336       -5,538       -3,898         -782
Oirct pai-oae inee--ta lt /b                                          092          959           91O        1,071        1,491        1,125        1,569             1 ,776       2,024        2,306        2,628       2,980
N5LT lao.s net                                                       4,830        5,342        5,650        10,018        5,297        3,475        9,571             8,996        8,307        6 981        5 974       3,252
Toaditional source                                                  (955)      (1,147)      11,059)      (1,450)       (1,250)      (1,195)      (4,314)           (5,224)      15 1251      (4,965)      (6 996)    (4 319)
Ptuaucial credtta                                                (6,0271       (7,013)      (9,224)    (13,714)    (10,479)         (8,890)    113 113)           (10,962)    (10,936)    (11,370)    (12,014)   (12,0171
oAornlsanloc                                                      (2,152)      (2,611)         (3,633)   (5,146)       (6,430)      (6.610)      (7.956)          (-7,190)    (-7,754)    (-9,354)   (-11,027)   (13,0809
Oeaetiian loaoaatbrood  Iced)                                         -190         -248         -267          -357        -608          -416         -702
Otbee capital n.e .                                                    -6)        1,029       -1,248          -418        1,059        4,732        1,304            -1,638       -2,188       -2,801       -3,549      -4,040
Change inreeercaa  (-Icoreace) Ic                                      1,230       -2,065          -90h       -4,299        2,782        3,480          -766             -560         -806         -948        -1,154      -1,410
loorcuat local teaeroen Id                                             4,041          6,544       7,256       11,895        9,699        6,913         7,505            8,065        8,872        9,820        10,974      $1,384
aesernes as .oonta of ilporcoIr                                            4             6.3          7.2          3.9          6.4           2            4.1               3 .3         3.3          3.2          3.2         3. 2
ACTUAL
1975         1976         1977         1978         (979          2980         1981
Esttrn.I Drbl
'00422debtFoxnatonduo% and disbursed                                23,299       28,483       34.601        46,436       51,342       54,865    61,400 /f
Poblic and publicly guaratna5d 13,706                                          17,349       21.595       30,284        35,478       3,260 
Official e1 urco                                                 1 939        4,431        4,717        5,401        5,889         6,416
1BRD                                                          11093)      (1,217)       (1,413)      (1.602)      (1,927)      (2.069)            -
Otter                                                        12,966)      (3,214)       13,304)      (3,799)      (406 2)      (4 347)
9,747       12,9)9       16 879       23,963       29 589        31,844
Prinane nun-guorlntend                                             9,592       11,133       13,005       16,152        15,864       16,605
Undisbare-d debt (public only)                                       3,879        6,620        8,411        10,209       12,448       14,041
Gross Oisburseents
Tonal g...  disbursent of n4LT loa.a                                 6,989        8,160        9,282        15,164       11,728       10,085
Public and poblicly guaroneed                                      3,78         4,921        5.422       10,116         9,152        6,993
Official enpy- c-edina                                             428          405          169          490           448          497
1000                                                             251           173          298          275          302           343            -
Other nI ltilltecn]                                               119          113           92          136          206           192
friv..e :ource '2,991                                                       4,233         4,862        9,216        6,197        5,892
Prioac- oo-guarantned                                             3,194        3,239        3,861        5,048        2,576         3,192
Debt Service
Totai  debt aerice paysenna                                        4,195        4,322         5,442        8,252       11,147       23,168
Interest (nen)                                                   (1,77        (1,423)      (1,651)      (2,457)       (3.555)      (5,412)
Pay entaas X of Efpo.tt  tod NFr                                       39,6          36.2         39,6         54,2         59.8         54.9
Pay-nt ass  of GNP                                                      2,9           2,6         530           3.7          4,3          4.8
A.erago lotaea.t race uO  nba poblic dobi  Ill I1                          0.)          7            0 , 3        9.9          11,2         12,3          -
Offaclal sources                                                        7.7           7.9          S,O          7.5           . 3         8,7 7
Anerseesanourirn no net ..a...teed losus                                                             o 0  11,3  10  10.0       11.5         10,3
orr{caasoaurce                                                     19.4         14,3         16.1          14 5         19.0         13            -
Prit  source                                                            70           9,3          987           9.3         11.2          9.5
1081  001Total                                                          4.7           4.3          4,1          3.4          3 .6          3,8          -
I0R0  dtebucsaeaasltonal goras diaburseoeua  (X)                        3.5           2.1          3.2          1,8          2.6           3 4
1088 debt sernlce/totol debt aemntcp (X)                                2.5           3,2          3.7          2,7          2.2           2 1
As S of toas1 debt ourst.-dig
an ead of Decnaber 1982       /h
Sbehttr,,ctAnre
Mtn-fty str-c-ure of debt oottsn-ding
Masor-alee doe viantn 5 years                                                                    67
MaturIties  me  ot,tin, 10 yeire _                                                               33
/b  Excluding  -e-innested pruffitc
Ic  Euclodiug dullor oaluanion  adjustments aud  .uetiaatIon of dustic gold.
Id loctudiog gold aud dollor _aluatjon adj..ntenoa
n  Goods  tply.
If Details cosalalable.
/t  Poblic debt only.
lb Ptnx.isloued
SO-oces:  balance of Pasyents Das - Bbco  Gontral do arseil; OcernaIl1 Db ana - EPD
9sT 3, 1902



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                                   1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0           3.3
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0          16.0
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education            23.5           7.5
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0           2.1
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0          16.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0          13.0
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          21.7
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0           3.2
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways             75.0          14.1
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  19.0             7.6
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roa"s         5             32.0
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agricultur,          40.G           9.7
1300   1976  Eletrobras                         Power                50.0           0.8
1302   1976  Brazil                             Nutrition            19.0           2.0
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply         40.0           0.1
1317   1976  Brazil                             Agro-Industry        83.0          59.6
1343   1977  ELETROSUL.                         Power                82.0          17.5
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development  42.0            10.5
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer           52.0          11.7
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do              Fertilizer           55.0           1.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                             Education            32.0          22.7
1488   1977  Brazil                             Rural Development  17.0            12.1
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage            110.0          75.9
1537   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  24.0            19.5
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                         Power               130.0          64.9
1557   1978  Brazil                             Roads               114.0          88.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                            Petrochemicals       85.0          14.1
1563   1978  Brazil                             Urban Transport    88.0            36.4
1568   1978  Brazil                             Agric. Extension  100.0            76.5



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            28.5
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               65.9
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0               85.7
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              78.8          11.5
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            23.7
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            61.5
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0          84.9
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            35.2
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          18.6
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0         100.6
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply         130.0         115.0
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power                114.0         114.C
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           155.8
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0         120.1
1867    1980  Brazil                           Education             32.0          30.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0            61.3
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0         124.7
1924    1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0            53.0
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 54.0          52.6
1965    1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport       90.0          90.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            180.0         168.)
1989    1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Devt.        250.0         250.0
2015    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           29.0          29.0
2016    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           60.0          57.0
2060 /1 1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           67.0          67.0
2061 /L 1982  Brazil                           Health                13.0          13.0
2062 /1 1982  Brazil                           Highways             240.0         240.0
2116 /1 /3 1982 Brazil                         Agriculture           26.4          26.4
Total                                               6,310.8 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  883.4
Total now outstanding                               5,427.4
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid            45.3              0.5
Total now held by Bank                              5,426.9
Total undisbursed                                                 3,003.5
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
/3   Not yet signed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Pa-ge -of 14
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                                                                                                  Amount in US$ million
Year                                               0 b 1 i g o r                                           Type of Nusiness                         Loans       Equity       Total
1957                      Siemens do Branil Cia. de Electricidade                                      Electrical Equipment                            2.00          -         2.00
1958                      Olinkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papesl                                           Pulp and Paper                                  1.20          -         1.20
1958                      D. L. R. Plaoticus do Brasil, S. A.                                          Automotive Parts                                0.45          -         0.45
1958                      Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio                      Motor Vehicles                                  2.45          -         2.45
1959                      Compunhia Mineira de Cinento Portland, S. A.                                 Cement                                          1.20          -         1.20
1959                      Champion Celuluse, S. A.                                                     Pulp                                            4.00          -         4.00
1966/1968/1972            Acos Villares, S. A.                                                         Steel                                           8.00         1.93       9.93
1966/1969                 Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S. A.                                          Pulp and Paper                                  3.78         3.41       7.19
1967/1972                 Ultrafertil, S. A. - Indostria e Comercio de Fertilizantes                   Fertilizers                                     8.22         3.03      11.25
1969                      Petroquimica Uniao, S. A.                                                    Petrochemicals                                  5.50         2.88       8.38
1970                      Polioleficas, S. A. Industria e Comercio                                     Petroche=icals                                  5.50         2.88       8.38
1971                      Oxiteno, S. A. Industria a Comercio                                          Petrochemicals                                  4.60         1.44       6.04
1971                      Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                                    Pulp                                            4.90          -         4.90
1972/1975/1981            Coupanhia de Ci-ento Naciunal do Minas                                       Cement                                        169.14        6.70      175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981       Companhia Siderurgica do Guanabara - COSIGUA                                 Steel                                          76.97       11.22       88.19
1973                      Capital Market Developmeot Fund - FUMCAP                                     Capital Harket Development                      5.00         -          5.00
1973/1978                 Empresa de Dese-volvimento do Recursos Minerais - CODEMIN, S. A.    Nickel Mining and Refining                              85.00        8.34        93.34
1974                      Induotrias Villaren, S. A.                                                   Elevators and Industrial Equipment              6.00         -          6.00
1974                      Fabrica de Tecido Tatuape, S. A.                                             Tlotiles                                       31.00         -         31.00
1975/1979                 Capuava Carbnono  Industrias Ltd.                                            Carbon Slack                                    6.18        1.19        7.37
1975                      Oxiteno Nordeste, S. A.                                                      Petrochemicals                                 10.00         -         10.00
1976                      Santista Induatria - Tentil do Nordeate, S. A.                               Textiles                                        6.45        1.00        7.45
1976/1980                 Tecanor S. A. - Tentil Catarinense do Nordeste                               Teatiles                                       16.20         -         16.20
1977                      FMB S. A. Produccos  otalurgicos                                             Iron and Aluminum Castings                     20.00                   20.00
1977                      Mineriaca  Rio do Norte S. A.                                                Mini,                                          15.00          -        15.00
1978                      Ciastal Siderurgia S. A.                                                     Iron a.d Steel                                  7.00        3.00       10.00
1979                      Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules, S. A.                                    Motor Vehicles                                 60.00         5.00      65.00
1980                      Hering do Nordeote S. A. - Malhas                                            Ready-made Garments                             2.00         -          2.00
1980                      Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura, Iodustria
e Comercio do Oleaginosas                                                Palm-Oil                                        3.50         1.00       4.50
1980                      Villares Iodu-trias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                                   Iron and Steel                                  5.00         -          5.00
1980                      PPH - Companhia Industrial do Polipropileno                                  Chemicals and Petrochemicals                   15.00        2.00       17.00
1980                      Destilaria Cianorte S. A.                                                    Chemicals and Petrochemicals                     -          0.25        0.25
1980                     Sotave A-aronia Quimica e Mineral S/A                                         Pertilizers                                    16.00        4.00       20.00
1980                      Polisul Petroquimica                                                         Chemicals and Petrochemicals                   43.00         5.00      48.00
1981                      Brasilpar                                                                    Mommy and Capital Markets                        -           1.50       1.50
1981                      Companhia Brasileira de Agropecuaria - COBRAPE                               Fond and Food Processing                        5.50         3.00       8.50
1981                      Triunfo                                                                      Chemicals and Petrochemicals                   46.00        4.00       50.00
1982                      Cimento CAUE                                                                 Cement and Construction Materials              40.00        5.00      45.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                                                        741.74        77.77     819.51
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repaymenta and Sales                                                         534.19        12.02     546.21
Total Commitments Now HSld by IFC                                                                              207.55        65.75    273.30
Total Undinbursed                                                                                              219.01        21.47     240.48



-  31  -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of March 31, 1982 1/
As of March 31, 1982, there were 54 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981.
A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating or just completed. Progress in
implementation of the enlarged project is satisfactory. Overall costs
are within reviewed estimates. A local project completion team should
send a draft PCR to the Bank for comments by September 1982.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed and no further disbursements will
be made. About US$1.0 million is being cancelled. A project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-  32  -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) suffered delays because of financial constraints imposed
by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds for 1981
have been provided recently and works have been reactivated. The
weighing station program is being reformulated; the closing date
will have to be extended further to allow completion of the works.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Due to lack of funds in 1981 and further
constraints on 1982 spending, project completion is now scheduled
for November 1983. The company's financial position is inadequate
with a year-end 1981 current ratio of 0.54, debt equity ratio of
52:48 and debt service coverage of 0.6 times. A supervision
mission visited Brazil in March 1982, and strongly reiterated the
Bank's request that the Government provide additional funds (or
allow CSN to increase its long-term borrowings) to complete the
project by May 1983 (the earliest now possible) and to restore
the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982 (with
full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a
viable financial position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Government approved budgets for the company
indicate that spending on the project in 1982 will be cut by 40%
in real terms below last year's levels. As a result, work on the
project is expected to stop by July 1982. The company also remains
in a poor financial situation, with a year-end 1981 current ratio of
0.45, debt-equity ratio of 55:45, and debt service coverage of 0.6
times. A supervision mission visited Brazil in March and strongly
reiterated the Bank's request that the Government provide additional
funds (or allow COSIPA to increase its long-term borrowings) to
complete the project by October 1984 (the earliest now possible) and
to restore the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982
with full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a viable
financial position.



-  33  -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of works in several flood plain areas which
suffered heavily from floods in 1979. With respect to the
project works, construction of the irrigation and drainage
system and settlement in the Betume flood plain has been
delayed by the unexpected need to construct a new small dam
to control floods in a tributary river. Roads recently
constructed by the Government in the area of Brejo Grande flood
plain are acting as control dikes for irrigation purposes, so
previously planned project works may be excluded from the project.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
cost in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loarn
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land, inland fisheries, and to increasing
small farmers' resistance to drought through small-scale irrigation
methods, have recently shown good progress.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date:  July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level. Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project is now complete,
resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or construction
of 5,420 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision of about
US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional financing
of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical implementation
of the project, which had reached 47% at the end of 1981, is now
progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan are expected to
be completed by the end of 1983.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. With the removal of constraints on the levels
of incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Provided the current levels of
counterpart funding and project implementation are sustained during
1982, the project should be completed by about end-1982.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule because of
initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition regarding
participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is now progressing
satisfactorily. The agreed targets for connection of low income
households have been widely exceeded. Substantial improvements in
the management of the project companies have been achieved, partic-
ularly in the areas of financial control and planning of COELBA and
CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now disbursed.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date:  January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 80% complete. The closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981. The
existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
temporary Government policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
to the actual inflation rate have ended. The Government is now follow-
ing a revised monetary correction system under which the level of
indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation, in line with
the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrangements for monitoring
the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed with the Government.
The loan is expected to be fully committed shortly.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date:  June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of
June 30, 1982.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by 18 months, and a reallocation of loan
proceeds to incorporate marketing, road improvement, and water
supply activities, have been agreed.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Construction of plant buildings and erection of equipment are well
advanced, but some delays have been experienced in delivery of
locally ordered equipment which may delay the project completion
date by about eighteen months. Commercial production is now
expected to begin in October 1982. The costs to complete the
project are expected to be about 15% below the appraisal estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants. Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products by about 20%.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of centers. The presidential
decree approving the legal and financial definition of SENAR was
signed, which now permits this component to be fully implemented.



-  36  -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Dater
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made.  Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. A state proposal to reformulate certain re-
maining aspects of the project and to extend the Closing Date is
under consideration.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities and is
expected to be solved soon. Project completion is expected to be
delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project adminis-
tration. Several components, such as land tenure services, non-
farm rural enterprises, and agricultural credit, show encouraging
progress. Preliminary plans are currently developed toward modify-
ing the land, marketing and health components, and to expand the
project area for selected project activities.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily.



-  37  -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because
of financial constraints imposed by the federal government. However,
these problems have been recently corrected and project execution
has been resumed. The maintenance program in the state of Parana
is progressing well.  The second phase of the weighing station
program will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR)
has been completed and the effects monitored. The Project is being
reformulated to reflect current priorities. Project completion
could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 75%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October 1982. The anticipated cost to complete the
project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities. The Closing Date has also been postponed to June 30, 1983.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementa-
tion. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981. The Closing Date
has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984, in
part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of incre-
mental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use of
consultants. However, at least a partial exemption to recently
re-imposed Government hiring restrictions will need to be arranged
by EMBRATER to prevent a serious slow-down in project development.
Overall, the remaining project activities appear to be proceeding
reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road



-  38  -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
however, the education and water supply components are far behind
schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement has recently been signed.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which will not be utilized. Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982. There is a cost
overrun of about 8%. The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services achieved very
close to first year targets and exceeded second year targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.



-  39  -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to delays in the release of federal
funds. Project administration has improved but further improve-
ments in coordination among the entities involved in execution is
still needed.  The agency responsible for the village water supply
component has not performed adequately and is being replaced by
another entity. The recommendations of the land tenure study are
still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
being developed by the Government outside the project in the
Brejo Grande sub-area may lead to the dropping from the project of
previously planned irrigation and drainage investments there. The
monitoring unit has been installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have
reached US$10 million by the end of March 1982, which is in line
with appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about nine months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during Calendar year 80. Part of the delay is expected to be made
up for during Calendar year 81 and Calendar year 82. A substantial
impact evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project
should yield knowledge of educational determinants vital to other
work in the education sector.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, previous plans for co-financing have
fallen through and the availability of local counterpart funds has
slowed project implementation.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 5, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Some delays have occurred in the appraising of the remaining AGLURB
cities. Corrective measures have been taken to bring this component
back to its original schedule during the recent supervision mission.
The pavement program in low-income areas (PROPAV), and the institu-
tional component are progressing satisfactorily.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily
and no major delays are envisaged.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All parts of the program are
progressing satisfactorily, although the production component
may suffer temporary delays due to financial stringency at the
national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986. Although project start-up has been somewhat delayed because
of the late arrival of funds for the first quarter, implementation
is thus far proceeding satisfactorily. Good progress has been
achieved in hiring staff and consultants, and in the land redis-
tribution program. Overall, project administration is function-
ing well. Start-up difficulties have slowed progress in small-scale
irrigation, water supply, and the establishment of the State Land
Institute; design and procurement procedures employed for rural
roads need strengthening.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays have occurred as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, recent
Government restrictions on hiring are necessitating special
arrangement by EMBRAPA of exceptions.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE
STATE OF AMAZONAS
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I   -  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            Approximately 18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:            State of Amazonas
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:           November 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:          March 1980
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:           October 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:               April 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            September 1982
Section II  -  Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III -  Special Conditions
(a)  UEPAE-AM to publicize, each year, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, the results of the project-financed research activities
(paragraph 39).
(b)  Additional seed storage facilities and equipment required for
project purposes to be completed no later than December 31, 1982
(paragraph 41).
(c)  Cost of transportation services provided to project farmers to be
fully recovered (paragraph 42).
(d)  EMADE to enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with oil palm farmers providing for the farmers' rights and
obligations in respect of the land alloted them and EMADE's
capital (paragraph 46).



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The federal and state governments to provide the Bank with
satisfactory evidence of progress in oil palm planting
activities, and to employ a senior processing adviser on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, prior to initiating the
installation of processing facilities. They would also ensure
the full implementation of the entire 5,000 ha oil palm
development program (paragraph 46).
(g) No later than April 1, 1984, or when commitments under the
Community Development Fund reach US$250,000 equivalent, the
results achieved under this Fund would be evaluated prior to
further commitments (paragraph 49).
(h) The federal government to ensure that adequate credit would be
made available in a timely manner to project beneficiaries
(paragraph 50).
(i) Written project execution agreements or arrangements to be
entered into between the state government and all executing
agencies. Similar execution agreements to be concluded between
the executing agencies and collaborating agencies, municipali-
ties, or local entities (paragraph 57).



I
I



IBRD 16251
COLOME A S.'                                                    64'                  62'                     BRAZIL               5MARCH iI82
STATE OF AMAZONAS
AA   /,  !       , 2'                                      ,     VENEZUELA  i'-.  \AGR,ICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
et'"\ '>-    /  J::    S-    >  ,&.,Project Area
7EUX<      B RA)Z IL        I;..               .         A           l/
> ) ) Li52fosilo j & §i Ai 9 ' XpCUCUl )rS 1 \u ,/R   O R A  I M  A!
B22LjV A  CA''-.-.            Cucui~~~~~P                                                                                           A   
}c      .  -<7,_E<                                                                       ,                       ,_S. Ga , e l
doa Cco e,ra
I
2'       C OL             M BI             /                                                                                                      I I    ,-
jk. r/                                                                                                                                                      'KA     RR70/lmzoS),  >
A4'                 (
POYA NA WA
9'-        .       PY./MSW                                                      ,                                                                                                                B'_, vz\8
Baco co Acre                                                                                       GROSSO
/'.' E ) 5 r coX ^0 m                            Proiect Areas            BR,AMr Federl, State Roads
\ A   C      R    E                                                                                                        M.- < <ti- t,c,a-t, Seeted    P.aed Reads
for the Ptoec               eaad Ben Pacedo
Z.                  It                                                                         Stal. C.pil.1                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stat. Pedet(L Lard
*/ _/4                               J              Si      < *    *_  )                                          /         *   State Capital                   eaadaries (Lao 1164/71)
>   j    |            /              ,,,e    /               X                   ^                   \        o~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  Other S.Iomtd Town  -  -t.t. Bd-udai.
P LO.ETERS            i
0         100        200
O        0                          700  I                    BOL VI



