Document of
The World Bankea
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3869b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
AMAZONAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 10, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                =      Cr$114.26 (November 1, 1981)1/
Cr$1.00                =      US$.00875
Cr$1 million           =      US$8,750
Average Exchange Rates:       1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
14.138  18.317  27.581  52.699  94.750
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PROJECT'S FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
/  At time of appraisal.  Exchange rate as of April 30, 1982 was
Cr$ 154.84 = US$1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BASA           Banco da Amazonia, S.A. (Bank of Amazonia)
BB             Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BEA             Banco do Estado de Amazonas (Amazonas State Bank)
BNCC           Banco Nacional de Credito Cooperativo (National Cooperative
Credit Bank)
CEASA-AM       Centrais de Abastecimento de Amazonas, S.A. (Central Marketing
Organization for Amazonas)
CEPA-AM        Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola de Amazonas (State
Commission for Agricultural Planning)
CFP            Comissao de Financiamento da Producao (Federal Commission for
Financing of Produce, Minimum Price Program)
CIBRAZEM        Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento (Brazilian Storage
Company)
CNPSD          Centro Nacional de Pesquisas da Seringueira e Dende (National
Center for Rubber and Oil Palm Research, part of EMBRAPA)
COBAL          Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos (Brazilian Food Company)
CODEAGRO       Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario (State Agricultural
Development Company)
CODEAMA        Centro de Desenvolvimento, Pesquisa e Tecnologia do Estado
de Amazonas (State Center for Development, Research and
Technology)
COSAMA         Companhia de Saneamento de Amazonas (State Water Supply
Company)
CPATU          Centro de Pesquisas Agropecuarias do Tropico Humido (Research
Center for Agriculture in the Humid Tropics, part of EMBRAPA)
DER-AM         Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Amazonas (State Highway
Department)
EMADE          Empresa Amazonense de Dende (Amazonas Oil Palm Company)
EMATER-AM       Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural do Estado de
Amazonas (State Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA        Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisas Agropecuarias (Brazilian
Agency for Agricultural Research)
ffb            Fresh Fruit Bunch
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS (Continued)
FUNEDE         Fundo Estadual de Desenvolvimento Economico (State Fund for
Economic Development)
FIBGE          Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estadistica
(Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics)
FSESP           Fundacao de Servico Especial de Saude Publica (Foundation for
Special Public Health Services)
IBDF           Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal (Brazilian
Institute for Forestry Development)
INCRA           Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria (National
Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
INPA           Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia (National
Institute for Amazon Research)
ITERAM          Instituto de Terras do Estado de Amazonas (State Land
Institute)
ORTN           Obrigacoes Reajustaveis de Tesouro Nacional (National Treasury
Bond Price Index)
PDRI-AM         Projeto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado (Amazonas
Agricultural Development Project)
PIASS          Programa de Interiorizacao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
(Program for the Extension of Health and Sanitation
Activities)
POLAMAZONIA    Programa dos Polos Agrominerais, Agropecuarios, e Florestais
da Amazonia (Special Program for Development of the Amazon
Region)
PROBOR         Programa de Incentivo a Producao de Borracha Natural
(Incentive Program for the Production of Natural Rubber)
PRORURAL        State of Amazonas Rural Development Program
SEDUC           Secretaria de Educacao do Estado de Amazonas (State
Secretariat for Education and Culture)
SEMA           Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente do Ministerio do Interior
(Special Secretariat for the Environment of the Ministry of
the Interior)
SEPLAN-AM      Secretaria de Planejamento do Estado de Amazonas (State
Secretariat of Planning)
SEPROR          Secretaria de Producao Rural do Estado de Amazonas
(State Secretariat of Rural Production)



- iii -
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS (Continued)
SESAU           Secretaria de Saude do Estado de Amazonas (State Secretariat
for Health)
SETRAN         Secretaria de Transportes do Estado de Amazonas (State
Secretariat for Transport)
SIMA            Servico de Informacao Agricola (Agricultural Market
Information Service)
SNLCS          Servico Nacional de Levantamento e de Conservacao de Solos
(National Soil Conservation Service, part of EMBRAPA)
SUCAM           Superintendencia de Campanhas de Saude Publica (National
Superintendency of Health Campaigns)
SUDAM          Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento da Amazonia
(Superintendency for the Development of the Amazon)
SUDHEVEA       Superintendencia da Borracha (Superintendency for Rubber, part
of the Ministry for Industry and Trade)
SUFRAMA        Superintendencia da Zona Franca de Manaus (Superintendency for
the Free Zone of Manaus)
TELEAMAZON      Telecommunication Company of the State of Amazonas
UEPAE-AM        Unidade Estadual de Pesquisas Agropecuarias no Estado de
Amazonas (Agricultural Research Unit in the State of Amazonas,
part of EMBRAPA)






- iv -
BRAZIL
AMAZONAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Agriculture in the Economy  ........            ...................    1
B.  Government Agricultural Policies .....................   2
C.  Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector ....                ......   3
II.   THE STATE OF AMAZONAS AND THE PROJECT AREA
A.  The State  .        ...........................................    3
B.   The Project Area ........            .............................    7
III.   THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
A.  State Framework for Coordinating Rural
Development Programs  ...............................  11
B. Institutions Engaged in Rural Development
in the Project Area  ................................  11
IV.   THE PROJECT
A.  General Description .......              ...........................  12
Origin and Status  .......            ...........................  12
Design .     .............................................  12
Application of Lessons from Other Projects  .... .....  13
Objectives and Target Group  .....            .................... 14
Brief Description  .......           ...........................  14
B.  Detailed Description .......              ..........................  15
Agricultural Support Services  .....              .................  15
Studies of Natural Resources  .....              ................  15
Land Tenure Regularization .......................  16
Adaptive Agricultural Research  .....              ..............  17
Rural Extension .......            ...........................  18
Improved Seed Supply  .............................  19
Marketing Services  ...............................  19
Transport  ..........         ..............................   20
Telecommunications  ...............................  22
The report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during October 20, 1981 to November 11, 1981. The mission comprised
Messrs. E. Los, J.P. Delsalle, J. Cellier, P. Ram and Ms. B. Insel (Bank)
and Messrs. E. Velez-Koppel, F. Yepes, A. Garaud and A. Apodaca
(Consultants).



v
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Small Holder Oil Palm Program .......                                                23
Social  Services  ...........                  ........................              25
Education ........................................  25
Health,  Sanitation  and  Water  Supply  ....                       .........     26
Community  Development  Fund  .....                      .................        27
Project  Management  .........                    .......................            27
Parallel  Activities  ........                    .......................            28
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.    Cost  Estimates  ..........                   .............................                28
B.    Financing  .            ...........................................                       30
C.   Procurement  ............                   ..............................                 30
D.   Disbursement  ...........                    ..............................                31
E.  Accounts and Auditing ................................  32
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Organization  and Management  ..........................                                   32
B.   Project  Coordinating  Unit  ............................                                  32
C.    Operating  Agreements  and  Procedures  ..................                                33
D.   Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ............................                                  34
VII. PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production . ...........................................  36
B.   Demand,  Marketing  and  Prices  .........................                                 37
C.   Marketing  Channels   ...................................                                  38
VIII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Illustrative Farm Types ...........................                                             39
On-farm  Operation                   ........................................                    39
Oil  Palm  Cultivation  Program  ......                      .......................            40
Producer  Income                 ..........................................                     40
Fiscal  Impact  and  Cost  Recovery  .....                      ......................          41
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
Economic Rate  of  Return  ......                     ............................              41
Employment               ...............................................                        43
Environmental  Impact  .......                    ...............................               44
Project  Risks                 ............................................                      44
X.    SUMMARY  OF  AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION  .....  ...                                47
APPENDIX: List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File 50
MAP:   Project Area                                                                            IBRD 16251



- vi -
BRAZIL
AMAZONAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VOLUME II - TECHNICAL ANNEXES, CHARTS AND MAPS *
Table of Contents
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Supporting Tables ........    ...............................   1
2. Agricultural Planning, Technical Coefficients and
Illustrative Farm Models ................................  10
3.  List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies ....  ........  30
4.  Project Organization Charts .............................  31
5.  Structure of the Marketing Component ....    ................  34
6. Transport Infrastructure Improvement Program .............  44
7. Smallholder Oil Palm Component ...........................  49
8. Assistance to Communities Under the Project ..............  70
9. Annual Phasing of Project Costs ..........................  73
10. Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements .................  78
11. Project Implementation Schedules .........................  79
12. Key Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation .............  83
13.  Estimated Incremental Annual Production and
Economic Value at Full Development .....................  89
14.  Cost and Revenue Stream for Economic Analysis ............  90
MAPS
-  Smallholder Oil Palm Program                         IBRD  16250
- Municipalities of Urucara, Barreirinha and Parintins   IBRD  16252
- Municipalities of Manacapuru and Careiro              IBRD  16253
*   Available upon request.






BRAZIL
AMAZONAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      The national territory of Brazil covers 8.5 million km2, of which
36% is registered as being in agricultural properties. The same share of
Brazil's 119 million population in 1980 lived in rural areas (down from 44%
in 1970), and agriculture employees 36% of the country's labor force (indus-
try, 23%; services, 41%). There are wide variations in population density
among regions, from 1.7 inhabitants per km2 in the north to 56.3 in the
southeast (1980 data). Of the 306 million ha in agricultural properties, 42
million ha (13.8%) are in either annual or perennial cropping use, 166 mil-
lion ha (54.1%) are used for livestock, 68 million ha (22.1%) are in extrac-
tive or planted forestry operations and the remaining 31 million ha (10.0%)
are considered as productive agricultural land not currently utilized. With
large areas of undeveloped land, Brazil has traditionally relied on an expan-
sion of its development frontiers to increase its agricultural production.
During the 1981-1985 period, in part because of the rapid expansion of sugar-
cane for the Alcohol for Fuel Program, it is estimated that up to 2.5 million
ha of new land will be put into cultivation annually.
1.02      During the last five years, agriculture has maintained its relative
importance within domestic production (between 10.5% and 12.4%) in spite of
several years of weather-related poor harvests; the sector, however, expe-
rienced a drop in its share of exports (to 47%, with a total value of US$9.5
billion, in 1980, down from its 57% share in 1975). The applicable rate of
growth in agriculture has resulted for the most part from increased area
under cultivation (mainly for soybeans, fruits and vegetables) rather than
improved yields.  In fact, rain-fed rice, beans, maize and cassava--all of
which are major domestic food crops--have experienced erratic and slightly
decreasing yields over the last 30 years. The major export crops are coffee,
sugarcane, soybeans, cocoa, oranges, cotton and tobacco, a list greatly
diversified in comparison to the mid-sixties when coffee accounted for 45% of
total export earnings. By 1975 coffee's share had dropped to 11%, replaced
by soybeans and soybean products as the country's largest foreign exchange
earner. Despite highly favorable ecological conditions, plantation produc-
tion of African oil palm has been only recently introduced into the Amazon
region. The Brazilian cattle population had reached 89 million head by 1979,
with some 38 million pigs, 310 million chickens and considerable numbers of
horses, goats and sheep. The 1980 milk production was estimated at around 10
million tons, after a rapid growth period between 1972 and 1976. Some 10.7
million cattle were slaughtered in 1980 and the poultry industry has been
growing extremely rapidly. Wheat has recently accounted for one-third of the
value of Brazil's agricultural imports (3.8 million tons of wheat imported in
1979). Other principal agricultural import commodities include natural
rubber, live animals for breeding, temperate zone fruits, milk and certain
meats, vegetables and seeds. Poor crop years result in periodic importation
of basic food crops such as maize, rice and beans (US$1 billion in 1980).



- 2 -
B. Government Agricultural Policies
1.03      Agricultural development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's 1980-1985 development plan. The sector's development is expected to
(a) help dampen inflation through expanded food production; and (b) help
alleviate the balance of payments constraints through increased production of
export crops and energy substitutes. To help achieve these objectives the
Government has reinforced its support of special regional programs. Nonethe-
less, due to the high inflation rate and the public sector deficits, the
Government is restraining public expenditure, has increased nominal interest
rates for all agricultural credits, as well as reduced eligibility of larger
scale farmers and specific end-users for subsidized funding, and has
indicated that it intends to continue reducing these subsidies over time.
Regionally, credit use is relatively concentrated in the more modern
agriculture in the south. Also, about 80% of crop-specific credit has gone
to six crops (soybeans, wheat, rice, maize, coffee and sugarcane), which
account for 60% of gross agricultural production.
1.04      For the past several years, the minimum price program has set
guaranteed floor prices of 42 commodities to:  (a) help farmers make planting
decisions; (b) provide for the establishment of Government regulatory stocks;
and (c) ensure stable feed prices to livestock producers. Although minimum
prices are periodically adjusted upward in real terms, they remain below
market prices prevailing at harvest. Also, due to administrative and
logistical constraints, the program only reaches a low percentage of the
small-scale farmers, who in many regions are the major source of such crops
as beans and cassava.
1.05     Provision of fertilizers and other inputs and implements is usually
done by the private sector, except in more remote areas where it is handled,
often poorly, by state enterprises. The use of improved seeds, fertilizers
and other agricultural chemicals remains concentrated in the southern half of
Brazil. National consumption of fertilizers increased at a rate of 16% per
year between 1972 and 1978 and is now slightly above 3 million tons per
annum. Some 40% of nitrogen fertilizers and 70% of phosphoric components
are domestically produced. All potassium fertilizer is imported. Fertilizer
is mainly used for soybeans (21%), followed by sugarcane, wheat, coffee, rice
and maize, which account together for another 54%.
1.06      The principal regional development programs, largely devoted to
providing agricultural services and infrastructure, comprise: (a) the
Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE),
aimed at the rural poor in priority areas of that region; (b) Special Program
for the Development of the Amazon Region (POLAMAZONIA) to help promote
investment for the development of areas of the "Legal Amazon" 1/ selected
for their potential; (c) the Development Program for Central Areas
(POLOCENTRO), to help bring the vast "cerrado" or Savannah lands into
agricultural production; and (d) the recently established Northwest Region
1/   Which comprises Rondonia; Mato Grosso; Para; Amazonas; Acre; the federal
territories of Amapa and Roraima; and parts of the states of Maranhao
and Goias.



- 3-
Integrated Development Program (POLONOROESTE), to help guide settlement and
assure a reasonably equitable, environmentally safe development of the
Amazonian areas of Rondonia and Mato Grosso.
C. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.07      The Bank has so far made 23 loans, totaling US$895 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting to
US$119.2 million, for agro-industries; two, totaling US$60.5 million, for
livestock development; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two,
amounting to US$100 million for agricultural research; one for US$100 million
to improve agricultural extension services; and 15 totaling US$497.1 million,
for various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, 11 of
which are located in the Northeast, two in the State of Minas Gerais, one in
the territory of Rondonia and one in the State of Mato Grosso, the latter
two as part of the POLONOROESTE Program in the Northwest. In addition, there
have been three loans totaling US$196 million for fertilizer production; a
loan of US$19 million for a nutrition research and development project; a
loan of US$32 million for a Northeast basic education project; and two loans,
totaling US$165 million for secondary and feeder roads.   A rural development
project in the Northeast State of Maranhao is scheduled to be presented to
the Bank's Executive Directors during FY82. A reforestation project in Minas
Gerais, a further settlement project in Northwest Brazil and a second rural
development project in the State of Bahia are in advanced stages of
preparation. Additional agricultural and rural development projects are also
under consideration for possible Bank financing. Completion and Project
Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the grain storage and the two
livestock development projects. In all of these projects, significant
differences developed between the Government and the Bank regarding interest
rate policy, leading to partial cancellation and/or early repayments of the
loans. Project Completion Reports have been prepared also for an agro-
industries credit project, which was subject to some of the same problems as
the three above-mentioned projects, and for the Alto Turi Land Settlement
Project. While the settlement project experienced various start-up and
execution difficulties, its estimated economic return was only slightly below
expectation. Various of the lessons learned from that project were
incorporated in comparable activities in the proposed project.
II. THE STATE OF AMAZONAS AND THE PROJECT AREA
A. The State
Location and Natural Features
2.01      The State of Amazonas is located in the northern part of Brazil,
bordering Venezuela, Colombia and Peru, and the States of Para, Mato Grosso,
Rondonia and Acre in Brazil. It covers an area of 1,564,445 km2, or just
over 18% of Brazilian territory and about 40% of the Brazilian Amazon basin.
It contains five great rivers flowing into the Rio Negro and Rio Solimoes,
which in turn join into the Medio-Amazonas. The Solimoes and Amazon rivers



- 4 -
from west to east form, in the State, an almost 2,000 km waterway, navigable
for ocean freighters. The climate is warm, with an average temperature of
25°C, and humid, with an average relative humidity of 83%. Having a high
annual rainfall between 2,000 and 3,000 mm, the climate is also characterized
with a high annual insolation (about 2,000 hours). The state's land area is
divided into floodlands (or varzeas) on about 100,000 km2 (6.4% of the
state); uplands (or terra firme) on 1,270,000 km2 (81.4%); and about 190,000
km2 (12.2%) of permanent lakes, rivers and marshes.
Socio-Economic Conditions
2.02      According to preliminary 1980 census data, the State has 1.45
million inhabitants. (Due to the difficult accessibility, however, popula-
tion data vary by source, and data from the National Superintendency of
Health Campaigns SUCAM, which visits even the most isolated areas, suggest
that the population could be as much as 1.9 million.)   About half of the
population is rural. Some 635,000 (44% of the state's population) live in
the state capital, Manaus. The state is divided into 44 municipalities, with
municipal centers usually having less than 20,000 inhabitants. The seven
municipalities of the Medio-Amazonas (including Manaus) have the highest
demographic density, about 13.7 persons/km2, compared to 0.9 for the state
and 13.6 for Brazil. Population has increased (mainly in the urban centers)
over the last 20 years at around 3.5% annually. The sources of the state's
GDP have changed in recent years. Over the last 20 years, the share of
agriculture slipped from 23% to 21%, that of industry declined from 23% to
16%, and the service sector's share increased from 54% to 63%. In volume,
however, agriculture and industry increased considerably, and the main
developments occurred in the Medio-Amazonas area, which contributes about 83%
to the state's GDP. Preliminary data from 1980 indicate that the
agricultural share of the state's GDP remained fairly stable since 1970.
Also, a majority, though declining share, of the economically active
population still works in agriculture (70% in 1960, 60% in 1970 and about 52%
in 1980). The development of the Superintendency for the Free Zone of Manaus
(SUFRAMA), created in 1967, and consecutive high floods between 1971 and 1976
contributed to this trend.
2.03      The state's transport infrastructure consists of about 5,900 km of
federal roads (about 1,000 km paved), 600 km of state roads (about 200 km
paved), and 1,200 km of municipal roads and, during the flood season, around
20,000 km of navigable waterways. The transport system is mainly operated by
the private sector, with regular boat services on the main rivers and regular
flights between Manaus and five municipal centers. The electric power net-
work is restricted to urban areas, with some 75% of the houses having elec-
tric power in the main cities. Water supply systems are also restricted to
urban areas, serving about 535,000 inhabitants (or 75% of the urban popula-
tion). Most municipal centers have radio or telephone communication with
Manaus.
2.04      Health services are inadequate, with about 1.6 hospital beds per
1,000 inhabitants, of which 70% are located in Manaus. There is about one
practicing medical doctor for each 4,000 inhabitants, but 75% of these
doctors are living in the capital, so that the ratio for the rural areas is
about 1 to 17,000.   The educational services are equally concentrated in
urban areas, and those existing in rural areas are poorly supervised and



served by mostly unqualified, underpaid teachers. The ratio of children
enrolled was only about 25% in 1977, but is now increasing rapidly. However,
school attendance drops sharply after the first two years. Secondary educa-
tion is provided in 57 schools attended by about 30,000 students, and educa-
tion at university level was only recently reactivated.
2.05      Little is known about average incomes.  A recent survey (July 1980)
for project preparation purposes indicated per capita income levels in the
project area varying for less-than-100 ha farms between US$150 on smaller
farms (up to 10 ha) located on poor uplands to US$900 on larger farms (from
50 to 100 ha) containing varzeas, compared to the estimated relative rural
poverty income level for Brazil of US$330.
Land Distribution
2.06      About 6% of farms have a definite land title and about 80% of
farmers possess only a right of occupation. Usually, only a small part of
the land occupied is actually cultivated, and the productively used area is
limited by available labor, traction and the ease of access. According to
the 1975 Agricultural Census, a total of 92,741 farms occupied 6.5 million ha
(or 3% of the state's total area) distributed as shown below:
Total of
Over     All Farms
0 - 10 ha   10 - 100 ha        100 ha    in State
Number of farms              57,499        31,717           3,525       92,741
Total farm area (ha)        207,910       805,652       5,483,637   6,497,199
Average farm size (ha)          3.6          25.4         1,555.6         70.0
Area under forest 1/
or tree crops (%)          60.0           89.4            96.0         93.3
Area under pasture (%)        5.5            2.4             2.8          3.0
Area cropped (%)             34.5            8.2             1.2          3.7
1/  Only a small area was under tree crops by 1975.  This area is now
probably increasing, in part, due to the Incentive Program for the
Production of Natural Rubber (PROBOR).
A 1980 field survey by the state's agricultural planning commission (CEPA-AM)
in the Medio Amazonas suggested that: (a) the average farm sizes and cultiv-
ated area encountered were somewhat larger than noted above; and (b) farms on
uplands are about double the size of those in floodlands.
Agricultural Production
2.07      Besides extraction activities, producing mostly timber, rubber,
fish and nuts, the state's main agricultural products are fiber, maize, rice,
beans, cassava and beef, while the production of eggs, bananas and vegetables
is steadily increasing. However, production does not suffice to supply the
local population, and the state is dependent on food imports from other
states in Brazil. Until 1979, the imports for most products varied from 80



to 100% of the total consumed.  The most recent figures show a marked change
for some products, e.g., only about 70% of maize, 50% of the rice, and 60% of
the beans, vegetables and fruits are now imported from other states. The
State has become almost self sufficient for eggs and has reduced its depen-
dency on imports for beef and milk from 100% to 80%. Given the huge distance
food has had to be transported in the past, and the production potential
existing in Amazonas (particularly on the varzea lands), considerable further
import substitution could be economically pursued.
Agricultural Development Policies and Programs
2.08      The northern region of Brazil has been viewed by Goverment as an
area of considerable development potential. A Superintendency for the
Development of the Amazon (SUDAM) was established to help develop the "Legal
Amazon, including the State of Amazonas. The POLAMAZONIA special program
was was set up to provide various fiscal incentives and the National
Integration Program (PIN) was used to fund several major development
efforts. One of these was the construction of the Trans Amazon Highway and
related, though largely unsuccessful, settlement efforts. Another has been
the establishment of the Free Trade Zone in Manaus which increased substan-
tially trade activities and employment opportunitites in the capital. Unfor-
tunately, Manaus has had considerable difficulty in trying to provide for all
the social infrastructure and service needs resulting from the related,
intensified urban growth. Also, the expected development of ancillary
industries or agricultural activities related to the Free Zone has been
slower than hoped. At present, SUDAM finances a host of smaller projects
(industrial and agricultural) scattered over the Amazon area but without a
specific unifying development strategy.
2.09      SUFRAMA-promoted agricultural development on the available 600,000
ha triangle north of Manaus has been hampered by the fact that most of the
area is of poor upland soils. However, the State Government developed a
strategy in 1979 to reinforce efforts elsewhere, where soils permit the
gradual complementing of the traditional extractive activities with a broader
agricultural development. To achieve this goal, the state has started to
improve the executive capabilities of its local institutions. It has created
new institutions such as the State Land Institute (ITERAM). As a first step,
ITERAM is trying to consolidate all activities in the state related to con-
firmation of land ownership and to land use planning, as well as to
collaborate in new agricultural development efforts. Various special
development programs are underway, such as PROBOR, promoting rubber planting;
CEPLAC, initiating cocoa cultivation; PROMAM, a SUDAM-supported program to
develop infrastructure in the Medio-Amazonas (mainly in municipal centers);
and PROVARZEAS, a national special program administered by the Ministry of
Agriculture, providing special credits for improvements on varzea lands.
Most of the programs have been developed independently and in 1980 the State
Government, in an effort to provide a better overall strategy and
organizational framework for these activities, established PRORURAL (State
Program for Rural Development) which would promote and coordinate all
development efforts in rural areas.
Previous Bank Financing in Amazonas State
2.10      To date, several Bank-financed projects have in part benefited the
State of Amazonas. An education project (Loan 1067-BR) financed secondary
school facilities in the city of Humaita, in the south of Amazonas; the



National Extension Project (Loan 1568-BR) provided funds to the State Rural
Extension Company (EMATER-AM) to construct its central office and a training
center in Manaus, both serving the proposed project area. Two agricultural
research projects (Loans 1249-BR and 2016-BR) are helping finance rubber and
oil palm research activities of the National Center for Rubber and Oil Palm
Research (CNPSD) managed by the Brazilian Agency for Agricultural Research
(EMBRAPA) as well as some adaptive research on farming systems.
B. The Project Area
Location
2.11      The proposed project would be carried out in parts of six munici-
palities bordering the Solimoes and Amazon rivers; the project area of about
16,000 km2 would, however, cover only 10% of the vast extension of the muni-
cipalities (map IBRD 16251). It is divided into three main areas. The
western municipality of Tefe (600 km upstream from Manaus), which borders the
Solimoes river, would be the site of the proposed pilot oil palm
development. The two other development foci would be located in the
so-called Medio-Amazonas with the municipalities of Careiro and Manacapuru,
lying opposite Manaus (map IBRD 16253); and Urucara, Barreirinha and
Parintins, about 350 km downstream from Manaus (map IBRD 16252).
Natural Features and Climate
2.12      The project area has a warm, humid climate, with the Medio-Amazonas
having a short drier period with moderate water deficit and the Tefe area
having evenly distributed rainfall without water deficit. The annual
rainfall varies between 2,000 and 2,500 mm and average temperature ranges
between 22°C and 31.6°C. The altitude runs from about 40 m above sea level
in Parintins to 100 m in Tefe. Some 14% of the area is periodically flooded
lowland (varzeas). The lowlands can be divided into the low varzeas, which
are flooded annually (five to six months) and the high varzeas, which are
flooded around once every five years for one to two months. The uplands are
flat, red-yellow latosols and podzols of low fertility derived from a range
of tertiary and quaternary parent material and of different texture. Some of
the generally well-drained soils could be used for tree crop cultivation or
small-scale planted grasslands under appropriate soil management. Favorable
combinations of climatic and soil factors, particularly suitable for high
yielding oil palm cultivation, are found in the municipality of Tefe (Annex
1, Table 9). The lowland soils are mostly of good quality, as a result of
the Solimoes River sediment added annually or periodically. Excluding too
sandy parts, or heavy clays, and areas with a high water table, the varzeas
can be readily used for annual cropping. Further data are given in Annex 1,
Table 1, and Annex 2.
2.13      In general, the lowlands cannot be economically protected against
the floods, and the farming systems have to be adapted to periodic flooding.
The Amazon and its tributaries begin to rise in November and by February the
low varzeas are under water. The floods generally reach their peak in June,
and waters fall to their lowest level at the end of October. The low varzeas
have an effective growing season of five to six months, and the high varzeas



- 8 -
of 12 months in regular years and nine to ten months in high flood years.
The time of the flood peak is rather constant (70% probability), and the main
variables are the flood levels (with a annual variation averaging about 10 m,
but usually between 5 m and 14 m). The crest of the flood takes about five
to six weeks to travel downstream to the Medio-Amazonas and the increase in
river level varies from 1 to 6 cm/day before peak months.  (More data are
given in Annex 1, Table 2).
Socio-Economic Conditions
2.14      The population of the project area (including the municipal
centers) is estimated at about 140,000, of which about 65% reside in about
150 communities in rural areas. Each community has an average of about 57
families or 400 persons each (Annex 1, Table 3). The varzeas and bordering
lands have been partially occupied for generations, with frequent demographic
changes under the influence of outside factors, such as high floods, economic
changes (e.g., high or low product prices) and government programs  e.g.,
port construction). The average population density is about 9.5/km ,
compared to the state average of 0.9. After the high floods of 1974 and
1976, many people fled to the urban centers, mainly Manaus, and the State
Government for a time favored resettlement on the uplands. Recently,
however, there has been a drift back to the lowlands due to increased
unemployment in Manaus.  The main economic activity in the project areas is
agriculture, with industry limited to sawmills (four) and jute packing plants
(two).
Land Distribution
2.15      Since the influx of settlers early in the century, at the time of
the native rubber boom, land rights have been distributed by the Government.
However, land titling administration has been poor, and the legitimacy of
various land ownership claims is confused. Since 1979, ITERAM has been
actively registering and checking titles and claims, with a view to
clarifying the land-ownership situation, including claims in water areas for
fishing rights. Available data on land ownership and on the areas falling
under the respective juridictions of federal (39%), state (43%) and municipal
(18%) authorities are given in Annex 1, Table 4. An estimated 23% of
project area farms are of up to 10 ha (covering about 2% of the total farm
area), 72% are 10 to 100 ha (covering about 58% of the farm area), and 5% are
over 100 ha (covering some 40% of the farm area).
Agricultural Land Use and Production
2.16      The Medio-Amazonas, which includes five of the project municipali-
ties, as well as two others (Manaus and Itacoatiara) not covered by the
project, accounts for about 80% of the state's agricultural production.
The Parintins area is a major producer of cattle and fibers, while Manacapuru
is developing as the state's prime vegetable production center. About 14% of
the total project area are floodlands, 9% waterways or lakes, and 77%
uplands. From 40 to 80% of the lowlands are annually inundated, and 10 to
20% have a permanent high watertable. Of the area's uplands, about 30 to 50%
are potentially suitable for tree crop cultivation. In practice, however,
only about 4% of total project area is occupied by farms, which are only
partially cultivated (15 to 35% of farm area). The main crops cultivated are



- 9 -
fibers (mainly jute and malva), rice, corn, cassava and vegetables on the
floodlands and cassava with some fruit crops and guarana on the uplands,
where the cultivation of rubber has also recently been promoted and begun.
Cattle are raised mainly by medium-sized farmers.  The prevailing low agri-
cultural and livestock production levels reflect the lack of infrastructure
and public services and the low level of technology employed. However, the
ecological conditions are in many respects favorable for greater production
and there is a distinct margin for agricultural development, under appro-
priate management.  Further details of existing production are given in
Annex 1, Table 5, and cultivation practices and land use are discussed in
Annex 2.
Agricultural Services
2.17      Agricultural and natural resource research is being carried out by
CNPSD of EMBRAPA, and by the National Institute for Amazon Research (INPA).
The Agricultural Research Unit in the State of Amazonas (UEPAE-AM) of EMBRAPA
has developed the main base so far for applied agricultural research. The
programs, carried out on the stations near Manaus and Maues, still need to be
broadened, however, to enable closer reflection of farmers' practical needs,
sufficient local testing and fuller integration with extension work. Other
agricultural services, however, are at even earlier stages of development and
their operation suffers from the difficult access to the area and also from
weak administrative structures and inexperience. Most still concentrate
their attention to the areas very near urban centers. EMATER-AM has been
able to establish six offices in the project area with a total of only 18
extension officers servicing the rural population of over 90,000. There is a
high turnover in field staff, and farmers are rarely visited on the farm.
Until recently, the state had virtually no capability to produce improved
seeds and depended nearly totally on imports from other states, with supply
proving highly unreliable due to transport difficulties and lack of proper
storage facilities.  The state decided to develop its own production capacity
for certified improved seeds suitable for local conditions, and recently
appointed the State Agricultural Development Company (CODEAGRO) as executing
agency for this program.
2.18      Only very limited marketing services are available to small-scale
farmers in the project area. CODEAGRO, established in 1979, sells farm
inputs through its stores (one per municipality) but its stocks are limited
and little technical advice is provided. CODEAGRO also helps execute the
federal system for marketing loans or crop purchase against the minimum
price. However, the system is barely accessible to small-scale farmers
because of the relatively complex regulations, obvious logistical problems
and high transaction costs. The four cooperatives in the project area (three
in the Medio-Amazonas and one in Tefe) also sell inputs and some consumer
goods and provide preliminary processing of some crops (fiber, rice and
cassava), limited transport services and onlending of institutional credit.
All four would require management and marketing advice. Only about 15% of
the project area small-scale farmers are receiving institutional credit,
channelled principally through the official banks, of which only 10 branches
are operating in the Medio-Amazonas municipalities and three in Tefe. Most
farmers are dependent upon the traditional intermediary system (so-called
aviamento) for input and consumer good supply and marketing of production.
While official credit interest rates range from 12% to 35%, intermediary



- 10 -
rates range from 65% upward. By obligating the farmer's crop at far below
market prices and limiting his cash resources, this system has pre-empted
farm investment financed either through savings or through financial
institutions which would require the crop as collateral. Lacking access to
alternative means of cargo transport and lacking cash as a result of an
essentially barter system, the farmer is unable to seek competing services.
While the intermediary system has been essential to the small-scale farmer
survival, it has also tended to constrain his development beyond the
subsistence stage. Almost no marketing services, formal or informal (except
the Manaus fair), are available for fruit and vegetable production in the
project area, largely because many intermediaries prefer the easier and
cheaper alternative of importing in bulk from out of state through
established channels.
Physical Infrastructure
2.19      There are about 120 km of paved federal roads (BR-319) in Careiro,
linked with the BR-364 in Rondonia, 138 km of municipal feeder roads and some
19 floating mooring sites in the project area. The farm communities located
in the uplands (some 30 such communities in the project area) are served,
albeit poorly, by farm tracks, some roads and river branches. The other 120
main communities are located on the borders of rivers or river branches or on
bordering uplands. Most of the river transport facilities are centralized in
Manaus, Itacoatiara and Parintins, and owned by intermediaries or private
transport companies, transporting cargo and passengers at the same time with
barges with a capacity varying between 5 and 60 tons and 20 to 60
passengers. Small-scale producers often possess canoes, mainly for fishing
purposes, and there are few community-owned barges. Most municipal centers
have energy and water supply systems, but only three of the six project
municipalities have the interurban telephone system. Most rural houses
obtain their water from the river or private wells, and use kerosene lamps.
Battery-operated radios are a common source of communication of news.
Social Services
2.20      Social services are inadequate, and the related institutions are
generally weak and urban oriented. Although there are 245 schools registered
in the municipalities of the project area, most are poorly supervised and
served by unqualified teachers. About 45% of the school age children in the
project area are enrolled, and attendance drops quickly after the second
school year. Health services are even more disappointing. Although the
municipal centers do have reasonable hospital installations, the rural popu-
lation receives little service due to transport and communication problems.
The existing health posts are often in disrepair and many are closed for lack
of staff, and the few health attendants working in the rural communities are
poorly trained and not supervised. Available data indicate an infant
mortality of 88 per 1,000 live births.  In reality, the figures for the rural
areas are probably under-reported and much higher. Malaria is not common in
the project area except for the municipality of Parintins. Schistosomiasis
has not been reported so far, and only one case of Chagas disease was recent-
ly registered in the state. The State Government is taking steps to prevent
entrance and spread of these diseases. More details about the project area's
physical and social infrastructure are given in Annex 1, Table 6.



- 11 -
III. THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. State Framework for Coordinating Rural Development Programs
3.01      The State has begun to organize all its rural and agricultural
development activities under an umbrella program called PRORURAL (para 2.09)
in order to better promote and coordinate the application of scarce human and
financial resources. PRORURAL is directed by a Council for Rural Development
consisting of the State Secretaries of Planning (SEPLAN), Special Affairs
(SEAE), Rural Production (SEPROR), Transport (SETRAN), Energy, Housing and
Sanitation, Industry and Trade, Education and Culture (SEDUC) and Health
(SESAU), and representatives of the Delegation of the Ministry of Agriculture
in the State of Amazonas, SUDAM, SUFRAMA, SUDHEVEA (Superintendency for
Rubber Cultivation), BB (Bank of Brazil), BASA (the Bank of Amazonia), BEA
(the State Bank of Amazonas) and BNCC (the National Cooperative Credit Bank)
The council is chaired by the State Governor. The council, a deliberative
body, delegates general administrative functions for each project to an
Executive Committee, consisting, in the case of the proposed project, of the
Secretaries of Rural Production (Chairman), Special Affairs and Planning and
the Coordinator of CEPA-AM (the State Commission for Agricultural Planning
within SEPROR). The council approves the annual working plans of the rural
programs upon the recommendation of the respective Committees. The programs
currently comprise the proposed Amazonas Agricultural Development Project
(PDRI-AM), a Fishery Development Project (with support of the National
Economic Development Bank, BNDE), PROMAM and PROVARZEAS (para 2.09).
B.  Institutions Engaged in Rural Development in the Project Area
3.02      The Secretariat of Rural Production (SEPROR) carries out its execu-
tive and coordinating task through a group of state institutions under its
control, consisting of EMATER-AiM; ITERAM; CODEAGRO; CEPA-AM and the Amazonas
Oil Palm Company (EMADE). Other agencies with existing or planned activities
in rural areas include the State Highway Department (DER-AM); the State
Secretariats of Education and Culture (SEDUC) and Health (SESAU); FSESP
(Foundation for Special Public Health Services) and SUCAM (National Super-
intendency of Health Campaigns); the research units of EMBRAPA (CNPSD and
UEPAE-AM); the Bank of Brazil, Bank of Amazonia and Amazonas State Bank; the
State Company for Telecommications (TELEAMAZON); and the State Water Supply
Company (COSAMA). These agencies would collaborate closely in the proposed
project. Further support for rural development initiatives comes from a wide
range of federal and public agencies, institutions and programs such as the
National Institute for Amazon Research (INPA); the National Institute for
Space Research (INPE); the National Department for Water and Energy (DNAEE);
EMBRAPA's Research Center for Agriculture in the Humid Tropics at Belem
(CPATU); the Federal Commission for Research of Mineral Reserves (CPRM); the
National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA); the
Brazilian Food Company (COBAL); the Central Marketing Organization for
Amazonas (CEASA-AM); the Intermunicipal Technical Cooperation Institute
(ICOTI); cooperative organizations, such as the Central Cooperative of the
North (CENTRALNORTE); and the local rural training center for Urucara
(CETRU), sponsored by religious groups. Though exceptions exist, the overall
effectiveness of these various agencies in rural areas has been generally



- 12 -
hampered by limited resources, the difficulty of Amazonian conditions, quick
turnover of personnel and weak interagency cooperation. Since 1979 the state
has made concerted efforts to strengthen state institutions, especially
through the training of a more permanent staff from Amazonas, and by
reinforcing the capabilities of the key planning institutions (SEPLAN-AM and
CEPA-AM).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Origin and Status
4.01      The state assigns high priority to agricultural development, with a
view especially to improving the productive (as opposed to the merely
extractive) capacity of the State, to balance and complement the rapid urban
development of Manaus and other major cities in Amazonas, to dampen the rural
exodus and to increase the self-sufficiency in food supply of the state. In
late 1979 the state requested Bank assistance. Work was focused on the
preparation of a project emphasizing development of already populated areas
with suitable floodlands, with the best production potential, and with good
accessibility. The project was prepared between March 1980 and October 1981
by CEPA-AM in close collaboration with the interested federal agencies and
the future implementing agencies (Annex 3).  The state has initiated with
Federal funding the training of project personnel, initial field work and
land regularization and various other preliminary activities, in order to
help condense the project's start-up period.
Design
4.02      The project would essentially assist the existing rural population
in the riverine Amazon areas and have a two-pronged approach, one to increase
food production on the floodlands and another to promote selected tree crop
cultivation on the uplands. It would focus on a relatively limited area
representative of the already settled parts of the state and address both
technical and institutional constraints to development. The project would be
the first Bank effort to broadly assist agricultural development in the State
of Amazonas.
4.03      To better select target areas, the state carried out field surveys
of rural communities in the project area. The surveys provided key data on
such matters as existing services and infrastructure, and identification of
priority needs. Equally important, given the general lack of systematic
agronomic research results in the areas, it provided a very fruitful vehicle
for helping identify simple production improvements and cropping innovations
already undertaken by the more successful farmers and to be extended to
others (para 7.01). The project would, nonetheless, still be very much a
pioneering endeavor, with considerable economic and technical risks (paras
9.11-9.16). To help offset these risks, the project was designed to include
substantial continued development of the data base (natural resource
research, agronomic research and demonstration, flood forecasting) and annual
evaluations of progress, with annual updating also of the detailed execution



- 13 -
plans. These evaluations and annual planning updates would be used to
reconfirm and "fine-tune" the exact size and scope of the package of
investments and support services (e.g., intensity of extension services, rate
at which new cropping practices and patterns are introduced, extent and level
of transport investments and services developed) in the some 150 rural
communities already selected or in others which may be selected as the
project progresses. The project would also include very substantial
institution building efforts, reflected in the important training and
technical assistance sub-components, the plans for reorganization of
CODEAGRO, the assistance to cooperatives, the establishment of EMADE, and the
training of a core staff in the State Center for Development, Research and
Technology (CODEAMA) within the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN-AM), which
would provide the state with a stronger capability to use results of studies
of local resources, and to prepare and evaluate state-sponsored projects.
Application of Lessons from Other Projects
4.04      Experiences from other completed government projects or project
preparation efforts in the Amazon region, as well as of the Bank-financed
Alto Turi project in the Pre-Amazon area of Maranhao State, were also taken
into account during project design. Although these projects were located in
areas not comparable to the riverine lands of the proposed project and in
several cases addressed problems of new settlements, they have indicated
several topics which are relevant for the proposed project. These include:
(a) the need to include measures to preserve the production capacity of
cultivated areas; (b) the need to allow for sufficient flexibility to adjust
project activities to the experience obtained early in the project; (c) the
need to solve land tenure problems prior to the initiation of other project
activities; (d) the need for strong political commitment from the State and
Federal Governments; and (e) the need to involve project beneficiaries and
communities actively in project definition and operation.
4.05.     To help address these topics:  (a) the project would promote tree
crop cultivation on the uplands, and assist the state in developing policies
and programs to improve and establish test plots throughout the area to moni-
tor productivity issues; (b) project administration and monitoring activities
would ensure timely data collection and a proper feedback of information to
the local executive level and funds would be provided for annual evaluations
to test and update original project assumptions; (c) ITERAM has given
priority to, and established local offices in, the project area; started in
1980 its analysis of land ownership claims; developed close cooperation with
the Federal (INCRA) and municipal authorities; and developed close
coordination between its activities and those of EMATER-AM; (d) political
commitment has been clearly demonstrated during project preparation,
particularly through the active involvement of Government officials on all
levels and the timely financial support for the implementation of pre-project
activities; and (e) prior to or simultaneously with the expansion of public
services, EMATER-AM would assist farmers and communities in organizing
themselves.



- 14 -
Objectives and Target Group
4.06      The proposed project objectives are to:
(a) raise the incomes and living standards of some 9,500 small farm
families operating, with family labor, farms of under 100 ha;
(b) increase food production to supply the rapidly growing urban
population;
(c) promote a sustainable and rational development of agricultural
production on suitable land, mainly through increased productivity,
gradual introduction of some new crops or varieties, and improved
organization of production systems;
(d) improve production support and social infrastructure and services;
and
(e) improve the Government's capacity to plan and execute similar
projects in other parts of the state.
4.07      Since the peculiarities of the region with its long distances,
multiform river transport and seasonal floodings require well organized
procedures in order to make best use of available resources and services, the
project would also focus on farmer organization in each of the 150 communi-
ties in the project area. Most of the beneficiaries would be members of such
communities, which comprise about half the farm population in the area.
Ultimately, most of the total of about 18,000 farmers in the area would at
least benefit indirectly from some project activities. It is expected that
some 9,500 farmers, receiving direct assistance and mostly first time access
to adequate extension, and gradually better access to working capital and/or
investment credit, would be the major source of the proposed project's impact
on incremental production. These farmers would operate on floodlands with
long-term concessional use rights and/or uplands to be titled under the
project. Sharecropping is not common in the project area. Possible seasonal
peaks in labor requirements would be dealt with through the traditional
mutual assistance arrangements (mutirao) between the farmers or by hiring
occasional labor. About 47% would operate farms in the 0 to 20 ha size and
53% in the 20 to 100 ha size, but virtually all would have a cultivated area
of less than 20 ha.
Brief Description
4.08      The project would include the following activities:
(a) studies of natural resources and agro-ecological zoning in
the project area;
(b) the strengthening and expansion of land tenure regularization
services, adaptive agricultural research, rural extension,
improved seed supply and marketing services;
(c) the improvement of physical infrastructure, including expansion of
storage facilities, the telecommunication network and transport



- 15 -
facilities (improvement of feeder roads, farm tracks, floating
mooring sites, and road and track maintenance capability) in the
project area;
(d)  the implementation of an initial five-year time-slice (1,800 ha) of
a pilot oil palm cultivation program, including small-scale farmer
participation;
(e)  the strengthening of education, health and sanitation services and
of community development activities; and
(f)  the establishment of project management and coordination,
including monitoring, ongoing evaluation and special studies.
Additional support activities such as credit for agricultural and coopera-
tive development, the broader use of the minimum price mechanism in rural
areas, as well as the incremental operating costs not financed under the
project, would be provided by Government.
B. Detailed Description
Agricultural Support Services
4.09      Studies of Natural Resources.  In support of the specific adaptive
agricultural research work to be carried out under the project (para 4.15)
and of the longer term development planning activities, this component would
aim to better identify the natural resource potential of the project area.
This would support efforts of flood forecasting, the preservation of the
ecological equilibrium and measurement of agro-ecological changes in the
area. It would achieve these objectives by the preparation and distribution
of: (a) topographical maps of about 4,000 km2 (1:100,000); (b) soil and agri-
cultural aptitude maps of about 4,000 km2; (c) geomorphological maps of the
total project area with 30-m contour lines (1:100,000); (d) vegetation and
potential land use maps of 2,000 to 3,000 km2 (1:100,000); (e) detailed soil
and contour maps of selected areas of about 400 km2 (1:25,000); and
(f) hydrological maps of varzea areas of about 2,000 km2 (1:100,000). The
component would also include the establishment of five hydro-climatological
observation stations and the identification, for subsequent demarcation and
control by ITERAM, of about 1,600 km2 of biological and 20,000 ha of forest
reserves (para 4.12). CODEAMA would be the executing agency. It would
contract the preparation of soil and agricultural aptitude maps to EMBRAPA;
the hydrological and vegetation maps to INPE; and the topographical maps to
ITERAM. The development of land use maps would be implemented by CODEAMA
with the assistance of EMBRAPA, ITERAM and consultants. The operation of the
observation stations would be commissioned by CODEAMA to EMATER-AM or CEPA-AM
as appropriate. The component would finance: (a) the studies and surveys for
map preparation and identification of biological and forest reserves;
(b) establishment of five hydro-climatological stations; (c) vehicles and
equipment, salaries of incremental staff and other operating costs required
for the management of component activities; and (d) 30 man-months of
consultant services for map preparation, selection of observation stations,
and river level forecasting.



- 16 -
4.10      Surveying and mapping would start at priority areas in each munici-
pality, selected on the basis of population density, existing agricultural
developments and accessibility. The results and experience of this first
phase (covering about 600 km2) would help to identify the areas for surveying
in subsequent years.  Soil maps would be based on field surveys and satellite
information. Geomorphological and biological maps would be executed using
satellite information, combined with testing and data interpretation in the
field. The detailed survey of the oil palm development area was
subcontracted to EMBRAPA and would be completed before September 30, 1982 as
a separate exercise (para 4.30). The observation stations would collect
climatological data; information on river levels, ground water level and
water quality at the station site; and rainfall data from pluviometers posted
at several other selected points. The results would complement the
Commission for Research of Mineral Reserves (CPRM) regional flood forecasting
system (becoming operative by the end of 1982) with a local flood forecasting
service.
4.11      Since all mapping activities require close integration for optimal
results, CODEAMA would, after one year of experience, prepare a mapping
manual, with the assistance of consultants, for future use in the project
area and elsewhere in the state as an initial step toward a general agricul-
tural zoning effort. Although CODEAMA would contract most of the work to
specialized agencies, it would coordinate activities and provide logistical
and field support and train a core staff able to expand similar activities to
other areas in the state. The State Government has agreed to: employ, not
later than December 31, 1982 the consultant services for the selection of
observation stations; and complete, by April 1, 1984, the mapping manual of
natural resources.
4.12      Land Tenure Regularization.  The project would legalize the land
occupation rights of project beneficiaries by providing either formal titles
or rights of land use, thereby improving security of tenure and access to
institutional credit.  In addition, the component would help demarcate and
control ecological and forest reserves identified under the studies of
natural resources component.  It would achieve these objectives by:
(a) administrative discrimination of claims to lands throughout the six muni-
cipalities involved with the project; (b) legalization of the land tenure of
about 9,500 small-scale farmers, including demarcation of about 6,000 km of
property boundaries; (c) the surveying of the municipality of Tefe;
(d) demarcation and control, with the technical assistance of the Brazilian
Institute for Forestry Development (IBDF) as required, of about 1,600 km2 of
biological and 20,000 ha of forest reserves; and (e) the provision of special
consultant services to assist the state in further developing land
distribution policies and procedures.  ITERAM would be the executing agency
and the project would finance vehicles, boats and equipment, salaries of
incremental staff and the costs of consulting services.
4.13      In order to ensure a consistent and coordinated land regularization
action, ITERAM has entered into agreements with INCRA and the municipal
prefects. ITERAM would execute all discrimination, distribution, demarcation
and administrative tasks, while INCRA and the prefects would review and
formally issue the official documents for those lands under federal (39%) or
municipal (18%) control. Land tenure regularization would include titling of
individual plots, as well as regularization and titling of community



- 17 -
holdings. The communal property reflects a local tradition of communal
action. Schemes developed on this basis have been successfully carried out
recently in selected areas in the municipality of Urucara. In general, the
regularization (individual or group) would proceed in stages: (a) the
issuance of the right of occupation as a preliminary phase; (b) the
demarcation in the field; and (c) the formal titling or the issuance of a
right of land use (Concessao de direito real do uso, CDRU). On floodlands,
only CDRUs would be issued, because of the specific demarcation problems in
flood plains and the Government's desire to control closely varzea use. In
general, the titling policy would be closely linked to the land-use policy,
and titling of community holdings on uplands would facilitate the enforcement
of the legislation requiring that 50% of the holdings be kept under forest or
tree crops. The issuance of CDRUs for varzeas would take place quickly after
demarcation of the main landmarks along the river, and, in accordance with
existing ITERAM regulations, recipients would pay an annually adjusted fee.
Similarly, the full costs of demarcation and documentation of formal titles
would be recovered over a 10-year period, with a two-year grace period and
full monetary correction.
4.14      ITERAM, the executing agency, was established in 1979; it has set
up at its central offices an effective system of recording and controlling
existing titles and claims.  It has a reasonably strong organization with a
staff of 230 and five district offices. The administrative discrimination of
public land has been completed for 20% of the project area. The State
Government has agreed to employ, by December 31, 1982, consultant services
needed for the land regularization activities.
4.15      Adaptive Agricultural Research.  The project would support a
five-year adaptive research program prepared by UEPAE-AM and EMATER-AM and
including 24 specific research subjects. It would concentrate on improvement
of cultivation practices for main small-scale farmer crops (cowpea, maize,
rice, cassava, jute, malva, guarana) in upland and varzea areas, use of draft
animals and farm management. A sample of 35 farms would be selected for farm
management studies. UEPAE-AM would be the executing agency. It currently
has a staff of 120, two experimental stations and is well organized. The
project would finance: (a) the establishment of two applied research outposts
in Manacapuru and Parintins, involving office, warehouse, staff housing,
water and electricity supply, vehicles, boats, farm and office equipment;
(b) salaries of 50 incremental research, field and support staff and
incremental operating expenses, including publication of results; (c) the
research work to be sub-contracted to other agencies; and (d) radio equipment
for communications with UEPAE headquarters. The Federal Government would
enable EMBRAPA to increase, by December 31, 1983, the research staff of
UEPAE-AM by 12 and arrange for UEPAE-AM to publicize each year the results of
research activities performed under the project.
4.16      Aside from its research role in the project, UEPAE-AM would also
assist in producing basic seeds and participate in the training of EMATER-AM
extensionists. Oil palm and rubber research would be executed by the
CNPSD in Manaus under ongoing Bank-assisted research projects (Loans 1249-BR
and 2016-BR). CNPSD is establishing in 1982 an experimental oil palm
plantation expected eventually to reach 500 ha; it is being located next to



- 18 -
the pilot 5,000-ha oil palm plantation to be initiated under the project
(para 4.28).
4.17      Rural Extension.  The project would expand the extension services
to the community or village level. The component would assist in farmer
organization and promotion of ecologically well-suited cultivation tech-
niques. It would aim to improve the quality of extension services by intens-
ive training of extension staff, establishment of demonstration plots and a
focus on farm management problems and farmer training. The component would
provide for: (a) establishment and equipping of three new local offices and
four lodging facilities for field and support staff; (b) the increase of the
coordination and supervision staff by 5, the senior field staff including
subject matter specialists by 27 and of the community level agricultural and
social extensionist staff by 96; (c) training of extension staff and farmers;
(d) establishment, mostly at the farm level, and operation, in cooperation
with UEPAE-AM, of about 400 demonstration plots to disseminate adaptive
research results; (e) acquisition of boats, vehicles and office equipment;
and (f) 36 man-months of consultant services to assist in extension methods
and farmer organization. EMATER-AM would be the executing agency, working in
close cooperation with the agencies involved in land tenure, research,
education, health and marketing activities. The project would finance
construction, additional boats, vehicles and office equipment, salaries of
incremental staff, consultant services, and other incremental operating
costs. The project would complement assistance provided under the Bank
financed Agricultural Extension Project (Loan 1568-BR) which is already
funding items such as central administration and training facilities.
4.18      Since 1979 EMATER-AM has, in its efforts to better reach small-
scale farmers, emphasized community organization and development, group
extension work, and attention to community needs such as better transport and
marketing facilities and better supply of improved seed (both of the latter
in cooperation with CODEAGRO), as well as the introduction (in cooperation
with UEPAE-AM) of low cost farm techniques such as higher planting density
and better on-farm storage techniques. EMATER-AM has started to train field
technicians originating from Amazonas (to help reduce the turnover of staff)
and to create facilities for the field staff to work and live in the more
isolated communities now targeted. The proposed project would support this
development. In the initial phase, as the land regularization activities of
ITERAM are executed, specially trained extension staff would concentrate on
community organization, forming informal farmer groups, explaining the
project concept, and better identifying community needs. Agronomic
assistance would be phased in gradually through: (a) group extension;
(b) orientation through demonstration plots, community nurseries and radio;
and (c) farm visits to assist farmers in planning farm activities and
preparing credit requests.
4.19      By the end of the project period, the project would have assisted
most of about 150 communities, comprising about 50% of the rural population
in the project area. Each extensionist would operate in a fixed number of
communities (on the average, two) and, besides community work, directly reach
about 50 beneficiaries initially, to be increased to about 100 after five
years. The field extension agents would be supported by subject matter
specialists stationed in the municipal centers and Manaus, and communications
between these levels would also be improved under the project. Since most of
the activities of the other components at the community level would depend



- 19 -
largely on EMATER-AM's progress in community development, EMATER-AM would
regularly organize local meetings between extension agents and representa-
tives of ITERAM, CODEAGRO, SEDUC and SESAU to work on interagency integra-
tion. At the municipal and state level it would also work closely with
representatives of the financial agencies to assure adequate credit
services. The State Government has agreed to: (a) employ, by not later than
December 31, 1982, consultant services for farmer organization and
agricultural extension methodology; (b) increase, by December 31, 1983, the
extensionist staff of EMATER-AM in the project area by 86; and (c) put in
place, by not later than December 31, 1984, the remaining staff (42) to be
employed under the project.
4.20      Improved Seed Supply.  The proposed project would assist CODEAGRO
in developing a pilot program for improved seed supply. The component would
provide for: (a) training and strengthening of the technical staff assigned
to the program; and (b) additional seed storage facilities with appropriate
temperature and humidity control. In addition to helping assure adequate
provision of several varieties of rice, corn and bean seeds already tested
under project area conditions, CODEAGRO would initiate local production of
high quality jute and malva seeds through subcontracting to Central Norte
(Northern Central Cooperative) in Manaus and would speed up production of
legume seeds. The project would finance civil works and cooling equipment
for five small seed storage units in the municipalities of Manaus (two
units), Barreirinha, Urucara and Manacapuru; training; and personnel costs
for four additional staff, including the component supervisor.
4.21      The improved seed program would be carried out through:  (a) selec-
tion of cultivars and supply of basic seeds by EMBRAPA; (b) production sub-
contracted to cooperative farmers assisted by EMATER-AM extensionists, after
appropriate selection and registration; (c) processing, quality control and
primary storage in Parintins and Manaus; and (d) transport to the five muni-
cipalities concerned for secondary storage and distribution. This organiza-
tion (detailed in Annex 4, Chart 2) relies heavily on the early completion of
works already under construction with other financing, including a seed pro-
cessing unit in Manaus (3 ton/hour), installation of additional cleaning and
grading equipment in Parintins, and construction of seed storage facilities
in Parintins and Careiro. Assurances were received from the State Government
that, by not later than December 31, 1982, these ongoing improvements would
be completed, and CODEAGRO would appoint four additional staff for component
management.
4.22      Marketing Services.  The project would stimulate the development of
competing private channels while improving small farmers' access to official
marketing systems in the project area. The project marketing component would
fund: (a) the staff training and technical assistance necessary to help
put into operation, over a three-year period, a COBAL system for supplying
(with non-project funding) basic consumer goods to small-scale farmers
through a network of 20 supply posts operated directly by COBAL or by
cooperatives and private intermediaries; (b) CODEAGRO promotion and
coordination work needed to develop several new options for marketing of the
project area's subsistence food production, including: sales to the operator



- 20 -
(INAN, the National Food and Nutrition Institute) of ongoing national
nutrition programs; expanded use of the federal minimum price purchase and
loan programs; and implementation, on a pilot basis, of newly simplified
minimum price loan system procedures, permitting on-farm storage and
standardized regional classification and grading of production; (c) the
equipping, through CODEAGRO (in cooperation with UEPAE-AM and EMATER-AM), of
local workshops to test and produce locally adapted tools for agriculture,
and development of technical assistance capacity to advise small-scale
farmers on the purchase of these tools, as well as other available inputs;
(d) various efforts to improve the channels for fruit and vegetable
marketing, based on a thorough study to be conducted by COBAL, including
improvements in small producer fairs and possibly development of permanent
retail farmers' sales areas in the Manaus food markets and improvements in
the market information system; (e) a study on and improvements, coordinated
by CODEAGRO, in private and public small cargo transport services (both river
and on land) through such measures as improved central loading and access
areas, expanded public ferry services, assurances of minimal land and river
cargo services, operation of a lease/purchase system for acquisition of
community cargo boats by farmer groups and improved information on services;
and (f, assistance to the three project area cooperatives and to Central
Norte, the central services agency for the cooperatives, through training and
technical assistance, including a market research consultancy. Details on
the sub-components are given in Annex 5. The project would finance: project
coordination staff for CODEAGRO, costs of constructing and equipping possible
producers' retail markets and of equipping the adapted technology workshops,
trucks and boats for CODEAGRO and for the community boat scheme, and
consultancv services.
4.23      CODEAGRO, established in 1979, has recently been reorganized to
more effectively coordinate this component and continued management
assistance will be needed. Assurances were received that the state would:
(a) employ, not later than December 31, 1982, consultancy services on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist CODEAGRO in finalizing and
carrying out its reorganization plans; (b) provide to the Bank satisfactory
results of the feasibility studies and detailed execution proposals for
improvement of any fruit and vegetable marketing facilities, such as the
Manaus producers' market and other project area producer markets, prior to
initiation of works on these facilities; (c) provide to the Bank, prior to
initiation of the cargo boat lease/purchase scheme, a satisfactory evaluation
of the economic and operational viability of the pilot scheme using existing
boats, and detailed plans for the rental or purchase conditions and options
to be offered which satisfactorily recover the costs; and (d) cause CODEAGRO
to recover fror'i users the full operating, maintenance and investment costs
associated with proposed CODEAGRO boat services between Manaus and Careiro
(except to the extent that such costs are related to CODEAGRO's other
component coordination functions) and of project-supported truck transport
services.
4.24      TransDort.  The transport component would facilitate access by farm
communities to key agricultural and social services and improve transport
conditions for shipping farm produce and supplying farm inputs. It would
include: (a) the construction of 24 floating, storage-in-transit platforms



- 21 -
("anchorages") to facilitate freight and passenger transport along navigable
waterways and improved feeder services by small boats; (b) studies and
experimental clearing of about 30 km of small and obstructed creeks to enable
neighboring communities to make greater use of small boats during the low
water season; (c) purchase of light maintenance equipment to support largely
manual maintenance of roads and minor waterways by municipalities; (d) the
training of municipal works foremen in the maintenance of transport infra-
structure; (e) the construction or improvement of about 400 km of farm tracks
linking farm communities to existing feeder roads, river branches or produc-
tion areas; (f) the rehabilitation or construction of about 100 km of feeder
roads linking farm communities to existing roads or municipal centers;
(g) surveys and detailed engineering necessary for the above works; and
(h) consulting services to strengthen the state's capacity to plan, engineer
and implement the above activities. Proposed standards and project execution
and maintenance details appear in Annex 6. The component would be comple-
mented by the actions proposed under the marketing component to improve river
transport services through CODEAGRO and cooperatives (para 4.23). SETRAN
would have a coordination/supervision team with overall responsibility for:
preparation of detailed engineering; supervision of construction; equipment
procurement; and the preparing and conducting of training in maintenance. It
would be assisted in detailed engineering, field surveys and supervision of
contracted works for road or anchorage construction by engineering staff of
the state highway department (DER-AM) and consultants or specialists from
other Government agencies. Force account works by DER-AM would be supervised
by the SETRAN coordination team. DER-AM would annually enter into agreements
with SETRAN defining its participation and the related costs of its
services. The project would finance, in addition to the transport works
themselves, the SETRAN coordination/supervision team (including a coordi-
nator, two engineers and two assistant engineers), support vehicles and
equipment (including operating costs), survey work, detailed engineering and
construction supervision by DER-AM, the maintenance training program, and
about 33 man-months of consultancy services, including a transport economist
to assist SETRAN coordination team.
4.25      Transport improvements are expected to play a central role in
helping increase the market and production options open to farmers, and the
transport component will need to reflect considerable flexibility in
selection and execution of works adapted to the varying local needs. Some of
the proposed civil works may contain unconventional features, both as regards
to design and possible alternative method of execution. The first prototypes
of each new or unconventional alternative would be constructed by combined
DER-AM and municipal force account. Experimental creek clearing or
improvement would be carried out from years 2 to 4 (depending on satisfactory
results of first-year surveys and studies) and would also test alternative
techniques, using various types of equipment as well as local labor. The
first-year investment program has been defined in detail and includes a
sample combination of improved river and land infrastructure transport to
serve communities which are isolated a good part of the year. Specifically
it would include: (a) construction of 55 km of farm tracks; (b) construction
of four anchorage platforms; (c) detailed engineering for the first two years
road program; and (d) surveys and studies to assess the needs and define
adequate work programs for the clearing of obstructed creeks.  The
effectiveness of these efforts, together with improvements generated by the
SETRAN coordination/supervision group on the transport data base, would feed



- 22 -
into efforts to detail the programs of the following years in accordance with
criteria given in Annex 6. Maintenance of infrastructure would become the
responsibility of the municipalities, with some assistance from DER-AM, and
would rely on integrating community labor in maintenance work. The project
would provide a set of light equipment and tools to each participating
municipality and would also provide maintenance training to permanent
municipal staff. DER-AM would provide periodic assistance requiring the use
of equipment and trucks. The responsibilities of the municipalities and
DER-AM for execution and funding maintenance programs would be defined in
agreements between the state and each municipality. Assurances were received
from the State Government that it would: (a) employ not later than December
31, 1982, consultants for technical assistance; (b) present yearly to the
Bank not later than June 30 an evaluation of the project transport component
activities during the previous project year; and after an exchange of views
on these evaluations, appropriately adjust work programs to take into account
the results; (c) prior to creek clearing or improvement works, present to the
Bank satisfactory maps, working plans and budget estimates; and (d) prior to
initiating feeder road, community track or mooring site construction in a
particular municipality, enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
between SETRAN and the municipality establishing related maintenance
responsibilities. A condition of disbursement for the transport component
would be the appointment of the SETRAN coordination/supervision team.
4.26      Telecommunications.  This component would provide telephone connec-
tion to isolated or distant communities, a key element of support for the
other project activities, such as extension, marketing and health services.
It would provide for: (a) installation of one public pay phone in each of the
50 most populated rural communities; (b) expansion of the interurban tele-
phone system from two to all five municipalities of the project area in the
Medio-Amazonas; (c) installation of facsimile equipment in three municipal
centers; and (d) some portable communication equipment. CEPA-AM would con-
tract with TELEAMAZON (the State Telecommunications Company) for acquisition
of equipment and licenses, and technical assistance to the municipal author-
ities for operation and maintenance. The project would finance the needed
telecommunication equipment, installation, and training for the operators in
the communities.
4.27      A minimum communication service is not only prerequisite to the
more efficient administration of such project components as rural extension,
marketing and health services but also, given the long river transport
routes, to the reduction of transport costs. The selection of communities
eligible for installation of a public pay phone would depend on a satisfac-
tory development of community organization (with EMATER-AM assistance), in
order to ensure adequate operation and administration by the community
council with the assistance of TELEAMAZON. The proposed telephone units
would be the least-cost solution for the services required and would consist
of a telephone connected by a microwave link to the state-owned telephone
network of TELEAMAZON. An operator would be selected by each community
and charges would be in accordance with the authorized national telephone
charges, with a surcharge to cover extra transport costs for repair
activities and higher local energy costs. The availability of energy might
cause logistical problems in some communities. In some cases the project
would provide for a simple 1 to 2 hp motor. The project execution agreement



- 23 -
between the state and TELEAMAZON (see para 6.04) would define arrangements
for operation and maintenance and cost recovery. The project-financed
telecommunication services would be provided only in communities of 50
families or more who were sufficiently trained and organized to operate the
system.
Smallholder Oil Palm Program
4.28      Based on several studies on the adequacy of ecological conditions
in Amazonia for oil palm production, the Government has begun to actively
review various oil palm development options. EMBRAPA is intiating research
on oil palm and quite a number of private firms have begun serious prepara-
tory work on plantation development.  In addition, and in parallel to this,
the State Government intends to develop, as part of its effort to improve the
productivity and incomes of small-scale farmers in the state, a viable oil
palm scheme in a state-owned flat area located about 15 km from Tefe, in
western Amazonas (Map IBRD 16250).  In doing so, it also hopes to demonstrate
the viability, in this region, of schemes including smallholder out-growers,
so that private sector initiatives also consider this option. To ensure
viability of the necessary investments in physical and social infrastructure,
factory, port installation and training, about 5,000 ha would need to be
planted. However, reflecting the time needed to build up the necessary
implementing capacity, the planting program would be phased over nine years
and would result in the settlement of 625 smallholders, each alloted 8 ha for
oil palm (considered the maximum, given family labor availability) and 4 ha
(of which about a quarter would be annually cultivated) for foodcrops and
homestead. By the end of the investment period (year 13 when the last
factory capacity would be installed), two new villages of about 300 farmers
each would have been established, together with an administrative/processing
center which would include a 26-ton ffb (fresh fruit bunch) per hour oil
mill, and port facilities on the Solimoes river. Total investment would
amount to US$35.0 million, about US$7,000 per planted hectare. The expected
production would reach, at full development, about 20,000 tons of palm oil
and 4,200 tons of kernel (20 tons ffb/ha). The proposed project would cover
the first five-year time slice of the targeted program. This would include
(a) final surveys of about 30,000 ha; (b) construction of about 20 km of
access road; (c) import of high yielding hybrid seeds and the planting of the
first 1,800 ha, with an appropriate internal track network; (d) settlement of
the first 225 farm families in one new village; and (e) establishment of the
administrative/processing center, including office, warehouse, workshop,
housing for 102 permanent staff, training and milling facilities (5-ton
ffb/hour first-stage capacity) and a floating dock.
4.29      EMADE, created in early 1982, would be responsible, with its own
staff, for centrally managing the establishment and operation of the entire
scheme through training and hiring of field labor from participant families.
The five-year time slice would have investment costs of up to $13.7 million
including technical assistance and operating costs/overheads, which would be
capitalized during the immature period. Detailed features and costs of land
development, infrastructure, processing and port facilities, institution
building and technical assistance are given in Annex 7. The proposed first-
phase financing plan for EMADE would include US$4.3 million (US$5.4 million
including price contingencies) in equity and a long-term loan of US$9.4
million (US$11.7 million, including price contingencies) from the State
Government (20 years, with a seven-year grace period, at the interest rate of



- 24 -
6% p.a., with full monetary correction). The corresponding figures for the
entire program would amount to US$10.0 and US$23.7 million, respectively.
Since the project would finance only the first five-year time slice of the
program, both the Federal and the State Governments, in addition to making
available this funding to EMADE at these terms for the program, have agreed
to take all the necessary steps to execute or cause to be executed the entire
program of 5,000 ha.
4.30      Complementary to preliminary surveys made in 1978-80, a more
detailed soil, topography and vegetation survey of about 30,000 ha pre-
selected out of the total of about 270,000 ha of available state lands, has
been sub-contracted to EMBRAPA. This survey would allow the final selection
of at least 8,000 to 10,000 ha (5,000 to 7,000 ha for the smallholder program
and 3,000 ha for the EMBRAPA/CNPSD experimental plantation, para 4.16), which
would be mapped in detail (1:25,000). Due to the extreme scarcity of high
yielding planting material locally produced, non-germinated hybrid seeds
would be imported from different reliable sources (Malaysia, Ivory Coast) to
meet the entire planting requirements of the first five years. The imported
seeds would be germinated at the CNPSD in Manaus and delivered germinated to
the project pre-nursery. Assurances were received from the State Government
that it would: (a) complete, by not later than September 30, 1982, the final
survey and detailed mapping of the area of 5,000 ha to be planted; and (b)
secure hybrid seeds of a quality, origin and composition satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.31      Participant farmers would be selected (according to criteria
detailed in Annex 7) in groups of about 25 at a time. This would define the
minimum size of an oil palm unit as 200 ha. During the first eight years,
participants of a given group would draw their income from wages paid by the
company and from their food crop plot. After eight years of participation,
participants would be entitled to receive (in addition to the salary and
quality/quantity premiums) a share (estimated at about 50%) of EMADE profits
on condition that the participant would repay simultaneously to EMADE (over
the next eight years), on an interest-free basis, the fully corrected cost of
agricultural infrastructure (8 ha oil palm) and housing facilities provided
under the project, amounting to about US$27,800. During the course of the
debt repayment period, EMADE would convert the initial right of use into
collective or individual land titles; the state currently expects that the
collective titling would be predominant and that the farmer groups so titled
would continue to contract with EMADE for technical and managerial
assistance. Assurances were received from the State Government that it would
enter into and maintain, through full implementation of the 5,000 ha scheme,
satisfactory contractual arrangements with the beneficiaries covering land
tenure and dividend policy, a satisfactory draft model of such agreement to
be provided to the Bank by June 30, 1983.
4.32      EMADE's key managerial staff would comprise a project manager
assisted by a field manager, an administrative/financial manager and later on
a processing manager and a maintenance manager. To help EMADE staff develop
the needed experience in managing an oil palm development scheme, the project
would fund training in various fields as well as 60 man-months for a senior
field management advisor and 24 man-months for an oil palm processing
engineer. In addition, 12 man-months of consultants would be provided during



- 25 -
the first two years to assist EMADE staff in designing and establishing an
appropriate cost accounting system. During negotiations assurances would be
sought from the state that EMADE would employ these consulting services in
cost accounting not later than September 30, 1982. Conditions of
disbursement for the oil palm program would be: (a) the appointment of
EMADE's key managerial personnel, except for the processing and maintenance
managers; and (b) the appointment of a senior field management adviser, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. It has also been agreed that
installation of milling facilities would not be initiated until the state had
provided to the Bank satisfactory evidence of progress in the oil palm
planting activities, and a senior processing advisor had been appointed on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Social Services
4.33      Education.  The proposed project would help the state improve
primary education facilities and services in the project area and assist in
improving non-formal and adult education. It would include: (a) the devel-
opment, application and evaluation of a revised rural primary school
curriculum (with consultancy assistance) and production and publishing of
teacher manuals; (b) 852 training courses and seminars for teachers (610),
literacy trainers (120), administrative assistants (87), and supervisory
staff (35); (c) construction and provision of equipment for 150 primary
schools or classrooms and related school canteens (including at the
smallholder oil palm program in Tefe); (d) improvement or expansion of 50
schools or classrooms; (e) evaluation studies of the formal and non-formal
programs to allow readjustments during project implementation; and
(f) strengthening of the project coordination capacity within SEDUC, which
would be the executing agency, and of the education administrative capacity
at municipal level. The project would finance design and construction, the
various expenses associated with curriculum development, teachers' guides
publishing, training (including forty man-months of consultant services for
curriculum development and the execution of studies), and vehicles and
equipment, boats, materials, and operating costs (including salaries) for the
component coordination unit and supervisory staff. The coordination unit
would comprise the component coordinator assisted by an expert in formal
education and later on an expert in non-formal education.
4.34      The  project aims to establish an average teacher/student ratio of
30 and a student/classroom ratio of 30 (currently 27), or 60 on a two-shift
schedule. Consequently, the number of rural schools in the area would be
increased from 245 (with 315 classrooms) to 385 (with 465 classrooms) for an
expected school age population of about 24,000 by the end of the project
period. SEDUC would improve the quality of education services by continuous
training of teachers and supervisors, and by curriculum reform based upon
studies of local cultural patterns and experience gained under other rural
development projects in Brazil. SEDUC would also intensify literacy efforts
and adult education, and assist EMATER-AM in developing non-formal education
and community development courses. Assurances were received from the State
Government that: (a) by not later than December 31, 1982, consultants would
be employed to assist in development of the new curriculum; (b) by not later
than April 1, 1985, the new curriculum for primary schools would be fully
operational and the school meal program effectively implemented throughout
the project area; and (c) school construction would be contingent upon



- 26 -
conclusion between the state and the pertinent municipality of an agreement
establishing the procedures and responsibilities for payment of teacher
salaries, school maintenance and provision of educational material and
supplies for school meals. The appointment of the component coordinating
unit in SEDUC would be a condition of disbursement for the education compo-
nent.
4.35      Health, Sanitation and Water Supply.  The project would aim to
improve the quality of primary health services through: (a) training of 60
health post attendants, 60 midwives, five supervisory health officers and
five sanitation officers; (b) establishment of a continuous educational and
training system for health attendants, midwives and hospital staff in health
care and administration; (c) provision to health attendants and midwives of
simple standardized sets of equipment and supplies; (d) improvement of the
patient referral system, and establishment of a simplified supervision and
logistical support system; (e) construction and equipping of primary health
facilities for the smallholder oil palm program in Tefe; (f) reinforcement of
the state immunization programs; (g) initiation of better sanitation services
by provision of 3,200 sanitary installations and establishment of about 20
experimental small water supply and 10 purification systems and, depending on
the operation of these, an additional 27 simple community water supply
systems during the last two project years; and (h) strengthening the project
implementation capacity of SESAU and provision of consultant services and
studies of local health and sanitation conditions. The project would finance
construction costs of a health post in Tefe, as well as the vehicles, boats
and equipment and materials needed for the other sub-components, the salaries
of supervisory staff in the field and project coordination unit in Manaus
(comprising the component coordinator and a sanitary engineer),
training/retraining costs, nine man-months of consultant services and the
costs of preparation and distribution of field health manuals.
4.36      Given the virtual absence of effective primary health care in rural
areas, the project would emphasize simple, community-based actions, without
imposing excessive burden on the weak structure of SESAU and the municipal
administrations. Health care would be provided by: (a) the recruitment from
within the community of health attendants to provide basic health education;
vaccinations (DPT, polio, measles, tetanus); prenatal and child health care;
first aid geared toward the most common occurrences (e.g., cuts, bites and
stings); and the reporting of basic vital and health statistics; and (b) the
training of midwives, in order to improve their obstetrical capabilities.
Health services would also benefit from communication and transportation
improvements financed under other project components. In view of the
importance of community participation, component activities would be
implemented in close cooperation with EMATER-AM, which would also assist
SESAU and the communities in the selection of field personnel and the
execution of basic health education in the community. In practice, component
activities would focus on communities of 50 families or more and follow
EMATER-AM's community organization efforts. Finally, in executing the
component, a systematic compilation of medical plants used in the area would
be carried out in close cooperation with INPA.
4.37      Waterborn infections are one of the important causes of disease and
death in the area.   The project would start to bring some improvements in
the control of water quality in the rural areas through an educational



- 27 -
effort, the study of local conditions, the training of local sanitation
officers, organization of communities to install and use latrines, and con-
struction of demonstration installations for water supply and purification in
selected communities. The project would also provide funds to expand devel-
opment of such systems in other communities, assuming positive response and
readiness to participate in construction and operation. SESAU would subcon-
tract the construction of deep wells and ancillary systems to COSAMA.
Assurances were obtained from the state that, prior to construction of such
systems, it would conclude with the municipality and the local user
association an agreement establishing the responsibilities for maintenance
and the financing of operation and maintenance costs. Also, to help assure
timely initiation of training and preparation of field-level health and
sanitation service manuals, the state would: (a) employ consultant services,
by December 31, 1982 to assist SESAU in carrying out its program; and
(b) complete satisfactory field manuals as well as supervision and
information guidelines no later than October 1, 1983. The appointment of the
component coordinating unit in SESAU would be a condition of disbursement for
the health, sanitation and water supply component.
4.38      Community Development Fund.  Much of the project would depend on
community organization efforts of EMATER-AM (para 4.18). To supplement
these efforts, the project would finance a Community Development Loan Fund
(US$1.0 million) to finance community-sponsored activities, which were not
foreseen in the other components of the proposed project or which could not
be financed by other existing institutions or programs. These community
projects might include small infrastructure improvements and equipment or
draft animals. The resources of the fund would be used according to specific
criteria as detailed in Annex 8. The fund would be administered by CEPA-AM
and BEA would be the financial agent. Proposals for subprojects would be
submitted through EMATER-AM to the project coordination unit for review.
Final approval would be given by the executive committee of the PDRI-AM,
and funds would be disbursed after conclusion of a contract between BEA
and the community, describing the project, its costs and disbursements and
the conditions of loan repayment. The State Government has agreed that, by
April 1, 1984, or if fund expenditures have reached US$250,000 equivalent,
whichever comes first, CEPA-AM would evaluate, in consultation with the Bank,
the impact of component actions and fund operations on community development
before continuing fund disbursements.
Project Management
4.39      SEPROR would be responsible for overall project coordination.
SEPROR would delegate to CEPA-AM, responsibilities for day-to-day
coordination (para 6.01) and monitoring activities (para 6.06). CEPA-AM
would maintain a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The evaluation of the
project would be carried out by CODEAMA, an autonomous entity attached to the
Secretariat of Planning (para 6.08). The project would finance:
(a) vehicles, boats and equipment for the PCU offices; (b) staff salaries
and other incremental operating costs of project management and monitoring;
(c) training and consultancy support; and (d) costs of project evaluation and
studies carried out by CODEAMA.



- 28 -
Parallel Activities
4.40      The provision of on-farm credit, including short-term, investment
and marketing credit, would not be subject to project funding, but would need
to be carried out in parallel to the project.  Short-term and marketing
credit resources would be provided through standard credit lines of the
various banks operating in the project area, of which the Bank of Brazil (BB)
is the principal institution. Due to limited recent availability of rural
investment credit, the state is requesting a special Central Bank allocation,
supplemental to the standard credit lines but on standard credit terms, to
the participating banks to finance on-farm, marketing and cooperative
investments. Considering the high level of subsidies incorporated in current
credit terms (interest rates ranging from 12% to 35%, with inflation expected
in 1982 around 85%), credit would not be suitable for Bank co-financing. The
project would, however, seek to improve access to credit, principally by
encouraging simplified procedures, mobile credit posts, field visits to
farmer groups by bank personnel and improved bank staffing in high demand
periods. Training and orientation of both project and local bank staffs
would be undertaken on the problems of small-scale farmer credit services.
4.41      On-farm investment credit of the order of US$10.3 million are
estimated to be needed for small-scale farmers to finance the planting of
permanent crops, purchase of small livestock and on-farm improvements and
equipment. Estimated requirements for seasonal credit, for the planting of
annual and bi-annual crops, would reach about US$12.4 million by project
year 5. Investment credit of about US$6.0 million would also be sought for
cooperatives for storage, transport and marketing facilities. Marketing
credit would primarily be sought through the federal minimum price systems
(US$4.3 million). The Federal Government has agreed to take all necessary
steps to ensure the timely availability of adequate working capital,
marketing and investment credit (detailed in Annex 9, Table 2) to project
beneficiaries.
4.42      In addition, various incremental operating costs for road,
community track and creek maintenance and teacher and health attendant
salaries, amounting to US$4.6 million, would be locally funded, in parallel
to the project.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total project cost, exclusive of parallel activities, over the
five year project implementation period (April 1982 to March 1987) is
estimated at US$77.3 million, including a foreign exchange cost of US$14.2
million, or about 18%, and taxes of about US$1.6 million. Physical
contingencies total 6.5% of baseline costs, and price contingencies are
equivalent to 22% of baseline cost plus physical contingencies. Physical
contingencies were added to baseline costs at: 12%, on average, for civil
works and buildings; 10% for vehicles and equipment, materials, consultancies
and studies; and 6% for training.  Price contingencies were calculated in US
dollar terms based on international inflation rates estimated at 8.5% for
calendar 1982, 7.5% for 1983-85 and 6% from 1986 on. The project cost
summary is given overleaf and the yearly phasing is detailed in Annex 9,
Table 1.



- 29 -
Total Project Cost Summary 1/
(US$ million)
% of         %
Baseline Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total    Costs   Exchange
Agricultural Support Services
Studies of Natural Resources   0.9        0.3       1.2        2.0      28
Land Tenure Regularization       4.6      1.3       5.9        9.9       22
Adaptive Research                3.5      0.7       4.2        7.0       17
Rural Extension                  9.0      0.5       9.5       15.9        5
Improved Seed Supply             0.2      0.0       0.2        0.4        4
Marketing and Assistance
to Cooperatives                1.8      0.5      2.3        3.9       22
Transport                        6.5      2.3       8.8       14.7      26
Telecommunication                0.4      0.3       0.8        1.3      41
Sub-Total                     26.9      5.9     32.8       55.1       18
Smallholder Oil Palm Program
Agricultural Infrastructure    4.0        1.5       5.5        9.2       27
Industrial Infrastructure        2.4      0.8       3.2       5.3       24
General Infrastructure           1.5      0.4       1.9        3.2      23
Overheads/Administration         1.7      0.7       2.4       4.0       30
Sub-Total                      9.6      3.4     13.0       21.7       26
Social Services
Education                        4.8      0.3       5.1        8.5        5
Health, Sanitation and
Water Supply                   3.0      0.6       3.6       6.1       17
Community Development Fund       0.7      0.3       1.0       1.7       30
Sub-Total                      8.5      1.2      9.7       16.3       12
Project Management
Coordination and Monitoring    3.1        0.1       3.2        5.4       4
Evaluation and Special Studies 0.8        0.1       0.9        1.5       7
Sub-Total                      3.9      0.2      4.1        6.9        5
Total Project
Baseline Costs 2/               48.9    10.7       59.6     100.0       18
Physical Contingencies           2.8      1.0       3.8       6.4       25
Price Contingencies             11.4      2.5      13.9      23.3       18
Total Expected Project Costs   63.1    14.2         77.3 3/  129.7        18
Front-End Fee on Loan              -      0.4       0.4
Total Financing Required         63.1    14.6        77.7
1/   Excluding agricultural investment and working capital credit, and road
and social infrastructure maintenance costs, which would not be financed
by the Bank.
2/   Based on unit costs measured in Cr$ of November 1981 converted to US$ at
the rate of Cr$114.26 = US$1.0, with adjustment to mid-April 1982 prices
to reflect intervening inflation.
3/   Including about US$1.55 million of local taxes.



- 30 -
Financing
5.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$26.4 million to the Federative
Republic of Brazil, which includes US$0.4 million for the capitalized
front-end fee, would finance 35% of the project expenditures net of taxes,
or about 34%, on average, of project costs including taxes, the balance being
financed by the Federal Government. The loan would be for 15 years,
including three years of grace. It would cover the project's foreign
exchange costs of US$14.6 million, as well as US$11.8 million equivalent, or
19%, of the local costs. In addition to these project costs, the Federal
Government would provide rural credit for project beneficiaries (totalling
US$13.0 million in incremental working capital, including some US$0.6
million for EMADE, and US$10.3 million for on farm investments) and for
cooperatives (US$6.0 million for investment credit) and marketing (US$4.3
million) and the state would make the necessary arrangements to finance
incremental operating costs for road and community track maintenance and
teacher and health attendant salaries, not included in project costs financed
by the Bank, in order to operate and adequately utilize the investments
financed under the project. Assurances were obtained from both the Federal
and State Governments that: (a) adequate counterpart funding would be made
available for the effective and timely execution of the project and parallel
supporting activities; and (b) project facilities and services would be
adequately operated and maintained. The State Government has also agreed to
arrange for the timely acquisition and necessary financing of additional land
or rights-of-way required for project works.
5.03      To help ensure timely and effective implementation of project
activities, the state already initiated in 1981 preliminary activities, such
as recruiting and training of staff, administrative land discrimination
(review of claims), and agricultural land prospecting. To achieve the neces-
sary continuity and complementarity of action and to maintain the momentum
gained, retroactive financing of up to US$700,000 is proposed to help cover
eligible expenditures made after April 1, 1982, but before loan signing.
Procurement
5.04      The palm oil mill first stage equipment and installation would be
procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines; this would amount to about US$3.1 million. The equipment, boats and
vehicles required over the project implementation period by the 10 agencies
responsible for the different project components are locally produced and
readily available. With the exception of special equipment for creek
clearing, these items (amounting to about US$8.1 million) would be procured
over the project execution period in various areas by different participating
agencies in accordance with local procurement and bidding procedures, which
are acceptable. Special creek clearing equipment (amounting to about
US$200,000) would be procured by international shopping. Building
construction (totaling US$9.1 million) would be grouped into packages
suitable for local competitive bidding. In the case of access roads and
other transport works (totaling US$10.3 million), the same procedure would be
followed. Construction standards and standard bidding and contract documents
for road works would be reviewed before the first round of bidding.
Contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised



- 31 -
locally and in accordance with procedures which are satisfactory. Where
bidding is not possible or where bids received are not responsive, SETRAN
would negotiate prices for DER-AM force account works. Brazil has a
competitive local construction industry capable of carrying out the project
works. Since the individual construction works are relatively small,
dispersed and located in remote areas, foreign contractors are not expected
to be interested, though they would not be excluded from bidding. Equipment
for telecommunications (totaling about US$180,000) would be procured through
negotiated contract, taking into account compatibility with existing
equipment, and would be installed under force account. Demonstration units
for water supply and purification (about US$70,000), the clearing of small
waterways (about US$300,000) and other small construction works included in
the project would be of varied design as well as scattered and could be
executed under a combination of self-help, force account and local bidding.
Consultancy services (totaling about US$3.0 million) would include about 350
man-months (at an average cost, without contingencies, of US$6,450/man-month,
including individual fees, travel and local allowances). It is expected that
a major part of consultant services could be found in Brazil, but it is
likely that about 110 man-months (mainly, but not only, those for the oil
palm scheme) would be provided by expatriates.
Disbursement
5.05      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed on the basis of a
uniform rate of 33% for all project expenditures, except those made for
consultant services under the studies of natural resource and the smallholder
oil palm program, for which a rate of 100% would be applicable. Disburse-
ments would be made against withdrawal applications initiated by the various
implementing agencies under the project and certified by the PCU in CEPA-AM.
Supporting documentation for salaries, administrative expenses and minor
civil works by force account which would be disbursed against statements of
expenditures, would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by
the PCU and made available for inspection by the Bank during the course of
project supervision missions.  Standard documentation covering civil works,
vehicles and equipment and technical assistance would be submitted to the
Bank. Disbursements are expected to occur over a period of about five
years. The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1987. The
estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 10 and reflects the dis-
bursement profile for previous agricultural projects in Brazil, adjusted
slightly to take into account improvements likely to result from the estab-
lishment of the Special Account (para 5.06), the relatively higher initial
expenditures to start the oil palm program, and the fact that the state has
already initiated personnel training and the pre-project start-up activities
as from July 1981.
5.06      In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finance the Bank's share of project cost with its own resources, a Special
Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up to
US$2.0 million. The Government may request the Bank to make advance payments
in dollars from the loan account into this Special Account. Withdrawals in
cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made on the basis of the with-
drawal applications forwarded to the Central Bank. Conversion from dollars
into cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date
the expenditures were made. The Central Bank would send the withdrawal
applications to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account.



- 32 -
Accounts and Auditing
5.07      Each of the participating agencies, including the PCU, would
maintain separate accounts of its project expenditures, which would be
audited annually by the Central Secretariat of Internal Control (SECIN) of
SEPLAN according to standard Government practice, which is satisfactory to
the Bank. EMADE would have its accounts audited annually by an independent
auditor satisfactory to the Bank. The Special Account at the Central Bank
would also be audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank.
Copies of the audited statements of project acounts of various participating
agencies would be provided annually to the Bank within six months of the end
of their fiscal years. These audit reports would convey the auditor's
opinion (and comments as necessary) on the methodology employed in the
compilation of the statements of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance
of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's
legal agreements and the standard of record keeping and internal controls
related to the foregoing.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
6.01      The State of Amazonas has already created a Rural Development
Program (PRORURAL) directed by an inter-agency Management Council chaired by
the State Governor (para 3.01). The council delegates its general
administrative functions for each project to an Executive Committee,
consisting in the case of the proposed project, of the Secretaries of SEPROR,
SEPLAN, SEAE and the General Coordinator of CEPA-AM. To carry out the
day-to-day coordination of the activities under the proposed project, the PCU
has been established within CEPA-AM. The Project Coordinator, or head of the
unit, responds directly to the head of CEPA-AM. He would be assisted by five
senior field coordinators in the Medio-Amazonas to ensure adequate
coordination and integration of project activities at the local and community
level and by the EMADE project manager in Tefe who would liaise with him in
relation to integration of project activities at the local level in Tefe.
The other participating agencies would each appoint a full-time component
coordinator. These managers would meet periodically with the PCU staff to
discuss implementation progress and make appropriate recommendations to the
Executive Committee of the project. A list of executing and collaborating
agencies are in Annex 3 and project organization charts are presented in
Annex 4, Charts 2 and 3. A summary of training efforts to ensure timely and
efficient project implementation and development continuity is given in Annex
9, Table 3.
Project Coordination Unit
6.02      The PCU would have its office at CEPA-AM headquarters in Manaus;
the field offices would be located in the municipal centers of Manacapuru,
Careiro, Barreirinha, Urucara and Parintins. The central office would be
responsible for the administration at the state level and liaison with the
federal institutions involved in the project. To carry out these tasks, the
Project Coordinator would be assisted by:



- 33 -
(a) a monitoring and technical assistance unit, consisting of a
coordinator with one assistant and four technical officers;
(b) an administrative unit, consisting of an accountant with one
assistant and a staff officer for providing accounting assistance
to the executive agencies, as appropriate;
(c) adequate support staff; and
(d) consultants, particularly for project management and development of
cost accounting procedures (para 4.23).
Each local office would be staffed by one local senior coordinator and an
administrative assistant. Due to the great distances and limited postal
services, telephone communications and facsimile equipment would be installed
at these local offices. The local coordinator would be responsible for
organizing local and community level coordination among participating
agencies and liaison with the municipal authorities. This would include: (a)
meetings of local representatives of other executing agencies and bank branch
managers, and establishment when feasible of municipal consultative groups;
(b) meetings with farmers or community organizations; (c) promotion of an
efficient information flow among participating agencies at the local level;
and (d) assistance in the operation of the hydro-climatological observation
stations (para 4.10). The project consultancy and technical assistance fund-
ing would in part be made available to assist municipal authorities to
improve administrative procedures, including tax collection, as a
complementary effort to the assistance currently provided under several
existing programs of this type. The PCU field staff would assist in
coordinating these other programs and in identifying possibilities for
complementary assistance under the project. Assurances were received from
the state that it would maintain an adequate and qualified staff in the PCU
and its local offices.
6.03      In view of the specific circumstances in the Amazon region, the
limited experience of state institutions in spreading their services to rural
areas, the introduction of a new crop (oil palm) and the need for group or
communal action to implement project activities, the timely appointment of
key personnel is of vital importance. A condition of disbursement for each
component (with respect to the transport, oil palm, education, and health
components, see also paras 4.25, 4.32, 4.34 and 4.37) would be the
appointment of the coordinators of the participating agencies. The Project
Coordinator and EMADE's Project Manager in Tefe have already been appointed.
Assurances were received from the state that the Bank would be consulted
prior to any change in the Project Coordinator or EMADE's Project Manager in
Tefe.
Operating Agreements and Procedures
6.04      Because the project requires effective inter-institutional inte-
gration, the State Government, through the Executive Committee of PRORURAL,
would enter into agreements (convenios) with each executing agency, outlining
the agency's obligations in the project's execution, the annually phased
project targets, the need for collaboration with other entities, the funding
arrangements and the implementation schedules. In addition, with the



- 34 -
assistance of the PCU, agreements would be concluded between the executing
agencies and the collaborating agencies, outlining their responsibilities in
the specific area of collaboration. Where the agencies have to subcontract
activities to other institutions (such as to INPE for hydrological maps or
INPA for specific research programs), the respective head agency would enter
into a definitive service contract according to the agreed-upon procurement
guidelines. Finally, prior to construction of civil works, the executing
agencies would conclude agreements with the involved municipalities and local
entities to ensure their proper operation and adequate maintenance (paras
4.25, 4.34 and 4.37). Assurances were obtained from the State Government
that it would: (a) enter into and maintain as long as required all such
convenios and agreements; and (b) inform the Bank promptly about any
substantial amendments to these agreements. The signing of satisfactory
agreements between the state and executing agencies would be a condition of
disbursement for the respective components.
6.05      Since the project covers a broad range of activities with innova-
tive design under diverse circumstances, the timing and scope of activities
(detailed in Annex 11, Charts 1 and 2) would undoubtedly require adjustments
during project implementation. By the end of September, each executing
agency would prepare an annual plan, detailing the activities and expected
expenditures for the following fiscal year (April 1 - March 31). After
review by the Executive Committee, the project's working plan and budget
would be presented to the Council for Rural Development for final approval by
October 31 to secure adequate funding in the State and Federal budgets.
Assurances were received from the State Government that the annual project
work plan and budget proposal would be made available to the Bank by November
30 each year for comments.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.06      Monitoring.  Project monitoring would be executed by the PCU
through the project monitoring and technical assistance unit. The basic
information for monitoring would be provided by the executing agencies,
mainly through their own supervising and accounting departments. To ensure
timely data collection, the PCU would work out with the executing agencies
standard reporting procedures, making optimal use of available information
within the agency and compatible with the existing administration systems
prevailing in the institutions. The PCU would prepare quarterly monitoring
reports, giving details of project implementation progress and expenses.
They would point out achievements as well as shortfalls in project execution,
costs relative to expectations, and comparisons of actual performance with
specific target indicators (detailed in Annex 12). The monitoring reports
would be distributed to the members of the Executive Committee, the executing
agencies, the project component managers, and the field coordinators. Since
there is relatively little experience in preparing and using monitoring
reports, the project would make funds available for consultant services to
assist the PCU and the executing agencies in establishing the monitoring
system and manuals and in focusing on major project risks. The PCU would
also work closely with other teams in the CEPA-AM, which is also responsible
for other rural development projects, in standardizing the state's project
monitoring procedures. This would enable the PCU to monitor the direct or
indirect effects of those other programs (such as PROMAM, PROVARZEAS, PROBOR,
and the CEPLAC program) on the proposed project.



- 35 -
6.07      The oil palm component would be closely monitored by the EMADE
administration, which would prepare monthly progress reports and balance
sheets in a format acceptable to the Bank. Summary data from these reports
would be included in the overall quarterly monitoring reports of the
project. After three years, a special analysis would be made of the progress
achieved in the establishment of oil palm plantings and training of person-
nel, in order to confirm whether sufficient production would be available to
warrant the construction of the first phase of the oil mill as scheduled
(para 4.32) and whether changes would be warranted in scope and policies of
the oil palm planting program. Overall, the PCU would work closely with the
project evaluation team (para 6.08) to establish key indicators and select
monitoring data, in order to ensure that the evaluation team would have
adequate information to perform its task. The PCU's monitoring unit, utiliz-
ing inputs from independent evaluation studies, would also be responsible for
the preparation of a Project Completion Report. The quarterly monitoring
reports would be made available to the Bank within two months after the end
of the period under review and the Completion Report would be prepared and
submitted to the Bank within six months after project completion.
6.08      Evaluation.  To complement monitoring activities, which are
intended mainly as a tool for day-to-day management, project evaluation would
aim to provide the state with the necessary information to adjust, when
appropriate, project strategy and rural development policies. Evaluation
activities would attempt to assess the impact of the project on the develop-
ment of the project area. The evaluation would be executed by CODEAMA. Due
to the lack of experience in project evaluation in the state and the state's
objective to build up such a capacity in order to follow closely the various
state-sponsored development projects, the project would provide funds to
train a core staff of three in CODEAMA in evaluation techniques. This staff
would thereafter instruct other selected officers of CODEAMA'S existing staff
(about 60) to establish an overall evaluation effort of state projects.
During the training period of about one year, with assistance of consultants,
various complementary field surveys would also be executed. These would not
only help train the evaluation staff, but also improve the data base and
establish the points of reference of the pre-project situation, to the extent
possible. The evaluation team would provide the PCU with short, written
comments on the quarterly monitoring reports and would prepare annual and
post-project evaluation reports. Annual evaluation reports would call the
attention of the Council of Rural Development to existing development trends
in the project area and make appropriate recommendations, and also try to
anticipate future developments and assist the state and the project
management to respond adequately. The post-project evaluation would assess
project impact, and it would assist the PCU in preparing its Completion
Report (para 6.07). Assurances were received from the State Government that
it would: (a) employ not later than December 31, 1982, the consulting
services required; and (b) present to the Bank the annual evaluation reports
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.



- 36 -
VII. PRODUCTION, DEMAND MARKETING AND PRICES
Production
7.01      The thrust of the project would be to make a better and more
rational use of the available resources. It would help diversify small-scale
farmer activities from the traditional cultivation of subsistence crops into
more commercial agriculture and also permanent crops. Key factors taken into
account in the development of recommended production systems and practices
were the experiences observed, by local extensionists and during the project
preparation surveys, among the more progressive farmers in the area. Also
taken into account was the observed labor constraint (para 8.03). The impact
of the project on agricultural production in the project area is expected to
derive from: (a) a moderate expansion of the area under crop cultivation
(annual and perennial) and improved pasture; (b) an increase in the
productivity of annual and perennial crops and livestock and a reduction in
the decline in fertility in newly cultivated upland soils; and (c) a
reduction in post-harvest losses. Such improvement would be achieved
through, inter alia; (a) adoption of improved cultivation practices (e.g.,
the timing and density of planting, use of animal traction and improved
tools); (b) use of improved planting material (the locally more successful
varieties of various crops would be made available to larger numbers of
farmers); (e) improved disease and pest control; (d) introduction of better
rotation systems to partially replace the present shifting cultivation in the
uplands; (e) improved post harvest handling and marketing systems;
(f) gradual introduction of new crops; (g) improved animal husbandry
practices (applied to the existing local dual-purpose beef/milk cattle); and
(h) improved transport and communication infrastructure. The production
increase (including the entire 5,000-ha oil palm program) is assumed to come
mainly from some 9,200 farmers who already operate in the project area and
from about 700 new farmers who would settle spontaneously in the communities
of the project area. It is expected that participant farmers would only
gradually adopt improved farming practices and technology, receive more
intensive extension assistance and utilize improved infrastructure
facilities. Average yields assumed at full development represent
conservative estimates based on local observation of general production
levels attainable, given constraints of soils, input supply, risks due to the
specific environmental hazards in the area, the availability of support
services and the typical farmer's managerial capability. The projected oil
palm yields are comparable to those already attained in an oil palm operation
near Belem (at the mouth of the Amazon River), where natural conditions are
considered to be less favorable than those in Tefe.
7.02      At November 1981 prices, the value of incremental production at
full development is expected to amount to about US$43 million (Annex 13). Of
this, some 43% is due to traditional food crops, 33% to fiber and tree crops
(including guarana), 16% to livestock production, and 3% to vegetables and
fruits. In comparing the production activities in the "without" and "with"
project situations, the main change is the increasing relative importance of
tree crops for industrial processing.  A small portion of the incremental
tree crop production is estimated to come from rubber. Though the Government
is actively promoting rubber in parts of the project area, the estimates used
here have been scaled down to a very modest level, reflecting the fact that
uncertainty remains as to the technical and financial viability of
controlling South American Leaf Blight in this particular part of the Amazon
basin.



- 37 -
Demand, Marketing and Prices
7.03      The total farm produce in the project area is divided into four
major groups: (a) traditional food crops; (b) vegetables and fruits;
(c) crops for industrial processing; and (d) livestock products. The
products would have three major destinations: on-farm household consumption;
urban food markets in or near the project area; and industrial processing
plants in or outside the project area. Because of the specific transport
conditions and the long distance from the major Brazilian urban food markets,
it is not likely that food products for direct consumption would be shipped
out of the state. However, relatively strong demand exists not only in
Manaus but also in the other cities and municipal centers in Amazonas. While
there is little official or complete data on the demand situation for
agricultural products in the project area and the state, various pieces of
information and indicators enable some assessment of the demand situation.
7.04      Traditional Foodcrops.  This group includes four basic food commod-
ities: rice, maize, beans and cassava. The state still needs to import
large amounts of each from elsewhere in Brazil. However, local production of
these crops, with the exception of beans, has been growing over the last
several years. As Brazil is an occasional net importer of rice and maize,
depending on harvest conditions nationwide, and given growing local consump-
tion, there are solid market opportunities for local production of these
crops. Returns to farmers in the project area from production of basic food
crops are relatively low, but sufficient to allow continued production. How-
ever, they are expected to improve with the development of better marketing
systems and facilities.
7.05      Vegetables and Fruits.  Presently, vegetables and fruits are grown
only on a small scale in the project area, consumed mainly on the farm, with
very small but increasing quantities reaching the nearby urban markets, which
absorb all the vegetables and fruits delivered. There are strong indications
of growing demand in Manaus and the municipal centers for vegetables and
fruits and the prices paid to farmers are of satisfactory level.  Particular
attention is given to guarana, a fruit that is sold for industrial processing
and currently enjoys a particularly high return.  The demand for this fruit
which is used for juices and soft drink syrup is growing, and is expected to
grow even more as manufacturers move to export guarana products to other
countries. In general, improved marketing and the recent opening of local
producers' markets have boosted local fruit and vegetable production.
7.06      Crops for Industrial Processing.  This group includes the fiber
crops (jute and malva), rubber and oil palm. Jute and malva produced in this
region are sold to numerous large or small manufacturers who process the
product in Manaus or Belem. Presently, all the area's production is absorbed
by the industry, which is operating below capacity. However, farmers are
tending to diminish production of fiber crops, due to the hardship of cultiv-
ation and harvesting and the relatively low incomes yielded. Indeed,
production of jute in the state dropped from 25,200 tons in 1977 to 16,800
tons in 1980, while malva production dropped from 19,800 tons to 11,474
during the same years.  It is expected that the improved yields and
efficiency introduced by the project will partially dampen the trend. As to
rubber, of which Brazil is a net importer, the Government is actively
encouraging expanded production. The national consumption of natural rubber
has been increasing at an annual rate of 7 to 10%.  Brazil's production in



- 38 -
1980 reached 29,500 tons, while the total consumption was estimated at 95,000
tons. Forecasts for 1990 estimate consumption at around 200,000 tons.
Producers of native rubber (seringueiros) currently sell their raw material
("bolas") to local mills which process it into dried sheets or crumb rubber
before selling it to manufacturers in Sao Paulo. They enjoy support prices
currently set very high to encourage new plantings of this crop which takes a
relatively long time to enter into production. Rubber planted under the
project would start producing only after the completion of the proposed
project and would be processed locally directly to dried sheets. With
respect to vegetable oils, Brazil's production is still projected to continue
growing at a rate lower than that of consumption. Overall demand for fats
and oils in Brazil is increasing at about 6% p.a., and demand for margarine
has been growing at 10% p.a. Export quality palm oil is an ingredient in
margarine for which it has technical advantages and its price is competitive
compared with other oils. The projected demand for palm oil in Brazil, based
on forecast margarine consumption alone, shows that even with already planned
production increases, a shortfall in supply of 14,000 tons in 1985 and 22,000
in 1990 would occur.
7.07      Livestock Products.  Currently, most cattle raised in the project
area are local dual-purpose beef/milk cattle. The milk is either consumed
fresh or further processed by traditional means into butter and cheese.
Other livestock products such as eggs, poultry meat, pork and goat's milk and
meat are also presently produced on a small scale. Most locally produced
livestock products are consumed on-farm or in the immediate village, with
only relatively small amounts marketed in nearby urban centers. In most
urban markets in the project area, demand for livestock products exceeds
supply, and retail prices are high. In general, the towns and cities within
the project area are expected to provide a strong demand for the estimated
project-generated increases in livestock production.
Marketing Channels
7.08      Marketing channels in the project area are dominated by private
monopsonistic intermediaries, although the role of farmers' cooperatives,
while small, is increasing. Various logistical and organizational
constraints have limited the small-scale farmers' access to alternative
channels.  The complexity and expense of using the official minimum price
system, centralized in the municipal centers, has virtually closed the system
to small-scale farmer participants, although CFP, the Federal Commission for
Financing Produce, has recently introduced some innovative experiments to
broaden access to the system.
7.09      A number of actions considered under, or in parallel with, the
project should help improve small-scale farmer access to alternative and
competing market channels and thereby substantially improve and stabilize
farmgate prices. These include: (a) improved roads and tracks in production



- 39 -
areas and river and land transport from production areas to purchasing points
and markets; (b) expanded farmers' markets in key areas; (c) experiments with
an expanded and simplified minimum price system; (d) improved market price
information; (e) expanded and simplified credit access for the small-scale
farmer, which would indirectly increase the range of marketing options; and
(f) strengthened cooperatives, which would provide some marketing services.
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Illustrative Farm Types
8.01      The project area is suited for a wide variety of crops and trees,
reflecting a variety of ecological and physical conditions. Based on a field
survey conducted by CEPA-AM and additional information gathered by EMATER-AM,
UEPAE-AM and other agencies, six illustrative farm models have been
constructed to represent a framework of agricultural development for the
project participants. The project objective, to increase farm-family income,
would be achieved by gradually changing the present product mix and
introducing higher value crops and trees, by more efficiently utilizing the
labor resources and by actions to minimize marketing risk. The illustrative
farm types and the assumed distribution of the project participants and their
cropped areas for the "pre-project" and "with project" situations are
presented in Annex 2, Table 1.
On-farm Operations
8.02      Based on the analysis of the six illustrative farm types, including
one for small farmer participants in the oil palm program, it is estimated
that the financial rates of return to the 9,500 farmer participants would
range from 21% to over 50% as detailed in Annex 2, Tables 3-5. The higher
returns appear in farm types which include high value crops such as
vegetables and tree crops, for which the best market prospects exist.  The
lower returns appear in farm types depending mainly on production on the
traditional staple food crops, jute and malva.  Details of the agrotechnical
assumptions for the farm models are provided in Annex 2, Table 2. In
estimating the expected farm revenues, allowance was made for greater than
usual quantities of product loss due to the specific market situation and the
natural hazards (heat and periodic floods) which would continue to exist,
even with project-supported marketing improvements. Prices for inputs and
production were assumed to be generally at prevailing local farmgate prices,
averaged over the past three years and adjusted to November 1981.
8.03      In general, while greater expansions of the cropped area could
further increase the rate of return from farm operations, farmers are not
likely to greatly expand cultivated areas because available family labor does
not exceed an estimated 720 man-days per year, and the possibilities for
hiring farm labor are limited. In an attempt to reduce variability of
farmers' income and improve their capability to withstand the hazard of
floods, limited livestock development is being encouraged along with crop
development. At the same time, the cropped area of low value crops, espe-
cially those that require high amounts of labor and cause hardship to the
farm worker (e.g., jute ), is assumed to gradually decline.



- 40 -
Oil Palm Cultivation Program
8.04       In addition to the analysis of financial returns to participant
families in the oil palm program (which, as noted in para 8.02, would be
quite attractive), financial and cash flow projections were reviewed for
EMADE's entire 5,000-ha program. These projections are shown in Annex 7 in
detail. The financial rate of return to the EMADE investment (including the
full costs of physical infrastructure and overheads for the scheme, which
would yield benefits outside those reflected in EMADE's cash flow) was
estimated to be about 12%. The projected consolidated balance sheets
reflected the hypothesis that EMADE would start, in year 11, a second similar
5,000-ha program through self-financing and long-term credit on conditions
similar to those for the first program.
Producer Income
8.05       As a result of the project, the estimated family income from
agricultural activities could increase from a weighted average of about
US$1,900 equivalent (pre-project) to about US$6,100 equivalent at full
development. The estimated income of most of the prospective participants is
currently below the rural relative poverty level in Brazil, which is about
US$330 per capita, or US$1,980 per family (assuming a family composition of
6.0 persons). The "pre-project," "without project" and "with project" (at
full development) income levels are summarized below. The income estimates
cover only the principal activity of the farm operation and represent typical
farm models; obviously, individual producer incomes would fluctuate around
the average.
% of         Pre-Project     Without Project      With Project a/
Parti-    Family Per Capita Family Per Capita  Family Per capita
cipants   Income   Income b/ Income  Income    Income   Income
US$
I. Varzeas - Annual crops              43       1,815      302    2,040       340    5,640      940
II. Varzeas - Anrnal crops and cattle    4      5,290       882    5,850      975   11,430    1,905
III. Varzeas - Annual crops and
vegetables                  4      5,150       858    5,265      877    9,645    1,608
IV. Terra Firme - Annual and
perernial crops        29       1,775      296    2,170       361    5,810      %8
V. Varzeas and
Terra Firme - Annual and
perernial crops        18       1,145      191    1,310      220    6,090    1,015
VI. Terra Firme - Oil palm and
annual crops            2       1,070      179    1,410       235    5,520      920
Weighted Average/Total              100      1,900      317    2,075       345    6,118    1,020
a/  At full development occurring between years 7 and 17.
b/  Assunirg a family size of 6.



- 41 -
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
8.06      The costs (including contingencies) of the production support
(extension, research and seed supply) components focussing directly on the
9,300 farm families that constitute the main beneficiary group in the Medio-
Amazonas, would amount to about US$1,900 per family over the five years of
project implementation. Investments in physical and social infrastructure,
broader based non-agricultural services and project management would have a
cost of US$4,600 per family if allocated only to the families directly
benefiting from agricultural services. The impact of project investments
would, however, not be confined to those beneficiaries mentioned, but would
include a broader benefit to other inhabitants of the project area, and to
nearby communities.
8.07      Substantial fiscal benefits would be obtained from the taxation of
incremental project production marketed inside or outside the state. At an
average rate of 16% on the adjusted value of marketed production, the market-
ing tax (ICM) would produce annual revenues to the state of Amazonas
amounting to US$3.8 million at full development. This compares to US$2.6
million in recurrent costs required to maintain the infrastructure and
services established under the project.  Incremental rural social security
revenues (FUNRURAL) levied at 2.5% on the value of marketed production, would
amount to some US$0.5 million per year at full development.  In addition,
telecommunication and water supply tariffs would recover at least the
operating and maintenance costs of these services. As to the rural credit
extended in parallel to but not financed by the project, the currently highly
subsidized interest rate structure would result in direct recovery of only a
small portion in real terms.
8.08      As to the smallholder oil palm program, the state would recover
a good part of project costs (see Annex 7 for details) through: (a) EMADE
repayment of the long-term loan (about 70% of total investment cost, over 20
years, with a grace period of seven years, at 6% interest p.a., with full
monetary correction); (b) the building, through retained earnings, of EMADE's
Reserve Development Fund for further similar development programs;
(c) dividends paid to the state by EMADE; and (d) taxes. Of these charges,
long-term loan repayment would amount to 57%; Reserve Development Fund, 22%;
dividends, 13%; and taxes, 8%.
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Rate of Return
9.01      The economic rate of return for the directly productive aspects of
the project (including some 85% of project costs) has been estimated at about
21% (23% for the Medio Amazonas subproject and 14% for the Oil Palm scheme in
Tefe). The relatively higher returns in the Medio Amazonas reflect both the
relatively lower off-farm investments per farmer and the relatively lower



- 42 -
costs in the production systems envisaged; the lower, but still quite
acceptable, estimated return on the oil palm component reflects the higher
investment and production costs and the appropriately conservative estimates
of phasing and returns, to reflect the risks involved. Project activities
linked only indirectly to agricultural production, such as improved health
and sanitation, education and training, have an important impact on the
standard of living and the productive potential of rural families in the
project area, but their direct benefits are not readily quantifiable.
Therefore, these activities have not been included in the cost-benefit
calculation. The details of the cost and benefit streams used in the
economic analysis are given in Annex 14.
9.02      It should be noted that most of the off-farm investments and serv-
ices would have significant benefit over and above the incremental production
of the 9,500 participants receiving direct and intensive assistance. For
example, extension service activities extend beyond direct assistance in
agricultural production, and assist also the family unit in its social life
and improving its standard of living. Project transport facilities are
expected to have a substantial beneficial Impact on all who live in the
project area, increasing access to services, facilitating the outflow of
production and improving the likelihood of adoption of more productive
farming techniques. Investment in health and education, which are not
included in the cost stream for economic analysis, are also expected to
benefit not only the participants in the project's agricultural components
but also other inhabitants in the project area.
9.03      The cost stream used in the economic evaluation includes: (a) all
investments and incremental operating costs on farms (based on the phased
aggregate of the different types of participants, comparing the "with" and
"without" project situations); (b) off-farm investments and incremental oper-
ating costs directly related to agriculture development during the project
period; and (c) recurrent costs of services and maintenance of infrastructure
after the five years of project implementation. The cost stream includes
100% of the project costs for studies, land tenure regularization, agricul-
tural extension, research, marketing and cooperatives, transport facilities,
seed production facilities, project coordination at the field level, and the
entire 5,000 ha oil palm development scheme.
9.04      The benefit stream used in the economic rate of return analysis
includes all of the incremental production (and reduced losses) above the
"without project" development situation of 9,900 farmers (the 9,500 direct
project beneficiaries, as well as some 400 participants in the oil palm
development to be phased in after the initial five-year time slice), phased
according to the incorporation of these participants into the development
effort.
9.05      The prices used in the economic analysis for those goods traded on
the international market are border prices adjusted to take into account
transport, handling and insurance costs. Of the products produced under the
project, Brazil is an occasional net importer of rice, corn and meat, and a
regular net Importer of rubber and palm oil. Brazil is also a net importer
of fertilizers, for which border prices, similarly adjusted, were calcu-
lated. Non-traded goods such as cassava are valued at local farmgate
prices.  Most of these prices would be stable or would increase over the next



- 43 -
decade. Labor was priced at the market wage. Foreign exchange costs were
adjusted upward by 20% to reflect trade-distorting tariffs, subsidies and
advance import deposits.
9.06      To measure the impact of possible changes in the economic
environment on the project's stream of costs and benefits, several
sensitivity tests were made, with the results of the most significant as
follows:
Internal Economic Rate of Return - Sensitivity Test Results
(%)
Best Estimate             :    21
Benefits down by 50%           15
Costs up by 20% and
benefits down by 20%        18
Benefits lag two years         18
Benefits lag three years:    17
The results indicate that the estimnated return of the project is at a satis-
factory level and suggest that it is fairly insensitive to possible
variations in costs and benefits. The switching value ERR of 12% would be
reached if costs increased by 188%, or if benefits decreased by 65%. A test
of the sensitivity of the ERR for just the oil palm component showed that an
unexpected increase in costs by 20% would reduce the rate of return to 11%.
However, as the main technical and organizational risks in the component
(paras 9.12 and 9.16), which might affect costs or benefits, have been
carefully taken into account in the "base" cost and return estimates, the
likelihood of the return of this component falling below 12% is not
considered to be high.
Employment
9.07      The expected impact of the project on employment relates not only
to an increase of employment opportunities, but more importantly to a shift
in occupation of the members of the farm families. Currently, farm activ-
ities have a low labor productivity and the whole family is involved in farm
work, especially during harvest periods. Consequently, the time available for
education of the children is limited, and the present school curriculum (not
matching the agricultural calendar) and long distances between school and
home exacerbate the situation. Under the project an adjusted school curri-
culum, better transport facilities, an increased number of schools, labor
saving equipment and a more labor-efficient crop mix (reducing seasonal labor
peaks) would make more time available, not only for production and marketing,
but for the children's primary education and also for the other farm family
members' adult education, agricultural courses and other community activ-
ities. More details are given in Annex 1, Table 8.
9.08      The expected development of agricultural activities should generate
by year 5 the equivalent of about 6,000 worker-years and by year 10 (full
development) about 10,000 worker-years. Most of the increment (86%) would be
provided by family labor. The number of ancillary jobs resulting from the
increased agricultural production are estimated at 1,450 (about 10% for oil
palm scheme).



- 44 -
Environmental Impact
9.09      The project would improve the information base about natural
resources and the environment in the project area and promote measures for
appropriate protection of the soil, forest and fish resources. Although the
project addresses mostly areas already cultivated, it would provide a base
for improved land use and improved zoning (para 4.09). It would also provide
better information to the extension staff to assist the farmer in selecting
better farm and plot sites. In order to avoid excessive soil erosion, sandy
soils on the floodlands and slopes on the uplands would be excluded from
cultivation, tree hedges on the river banks would be maintained or replanted
and better soil management techniques would be promoted. About one-third of
the beneficiaries are located on the bordering uplands. The expected
substitution by tree crops for forest or regrowth would amount to about 9,500
ha. Only a small area (about 2,500 ha) now in forest would be replaced by
annual cropping.
9.10      The requirement that 50% of each holding be maintained under
forest has proven difficult to enforce and, in practice, most farms contain a
reduced area of primary forest. In order to better enforce this regulation,
ITERAM would, in the case of communal holdings, establish agglomerated forest
reserves in extension equal to the titles granted (para 4.13).  In addition,
the project would identify, demarcate and maintain various biological
reserves, to preserve a combination of forests, marshes and lakes (180,000
ha). The project area would touch less than 1% of the river and lake
network of the state, and the project's impact on the fish resources would be
minimal, especially since most of the project-assisted area bordering the
rivers is already occupied and used. However, the project should have an
improving effect since proper border protection is envisaged, fishing rights
of communities would be regularized and water quality and the use of harmful,
agricultural chemicals would be monitored. Fishery resources of regional
scope are already being studied by INPA and training by INPA of EMATER's
extensionists will be provided under the project; also, the state is
implementing a regional fisheries project with BNDE, to improve fishing
techniques to reduce overfishing in the main rivers. Finally, the project
would also provide funds to monitor the possible introduction by migrants of
Schistosomiasis and Chagas diseases not as yet observed in the project area.
Project Risks
9.11      General.  The currently low level of development of public
infrastructure and services, private enterprises and of project beneficiary
incomes in the project area provide an indication of the very difficult
problems constraining achievement of the economic potential of the area.
These problems also suggest the significant risks which the project will
face, these risks having been taken into account in the estimation of project
costs and benefits (paras 9.01-9.06). The following paragraphs summarize the
major identified project risks and some of the measures built into the
project to reduce such risks as far as possible.
9.12       Institutional.  The project involves 10 state institutions and a
wide range of collaborating state and federal institutions, with relatively
little field experience in the project area, and limited project experience.
Some require considerable strengthening to accomplish their respective
functions in the project. The company responsible for oil palm development



- 45 -
(EMADE) has only recently been established and the key institution respon-
sible for improving part of the marketing arrangements (CODEAGRO) needs
strengthening. The project includes numerous specific measures for
institutional improvement, centering on training, technical assistance and
the project coordination and monitoring arrangements. The state has already
begun staff training courses. During implementation, key personnel would be
upgraded in courses organized by the PCU. The motivation and active
participation of state officials and future project personnel during project
preparation are seen as positive indicators for steadily improving
inter-institutional coordination.
9.13      Floods.  Local farm communities have adapted their living and
cultivation systems to the regularly occurring floods, which bring fertility
to their lands through sedimentation, and which help control some plant
diseases.  The cropping on the low varzeas include only a four- to five-month
cropping period outside high water months (January - July). However, work on
the high varzeas could include year round crops, basically vegetables and
fruit crops.   The real flood risks are confined to the high floods
inundating all varzeas lands, about once every 10 years on the average. The
risk is not so much in the flood occurrence, but in the inability to predict
floods and minimize crop losses. The Federal Government has initiated, with
UNDP assistance, a regional program for flood forecasting, which would become
operative by end-1982. The project would provide funds to adapt the regional
information to local needs and to provide the farmers with better flood
information, in order to eliminate the factor of surprise and better enable
the farmers to move temporarily to alternate sites. The existing crop credit
insurance system (PROAGRO) does not provide protection against flood
damages. The project would include a study of the possibilities to develop
adequate flood insurance for the farmers of the varzeas.
9.14      Amerindians.  The project area has been long settled and does not
border on any Amerindian reserves. In the Medio-Amazonas, some Amerindians
have already been integrated into rural towns and villages and would be
potential project beneficiaries. In the municipality of Tefe, several small
groups with a long tradition of contacts and commercial exchanges with modern
Brazil are found along the Solimoes river in the northern part of the
municipality and outside the project area. The project will not interfere
with the rights of these communities and is not expected to have any negative
impact on their welfare and activities. However, in the unlikely event that
an uncontacted tribe would be encountered during implementation of project
activities, existing legislation and confirmed arrangements between ITERAM
and the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) would call for any project work to
be stopped, until FUNAI had ruled on the case and established reserve limits
for the tribe. Necessary health care measures for the Amerindians contacted
in such an event would be taken as appropriate.
9.15      Production.  The technical production risks relating to incomplete
knowledge of the project area and of most appropriate cultivation and soil
management techniques are addressed in the components for studies of natural
resources, rural extension and adaptive research.  In addition, the project's
executing agencies would be assisted by federal research institutions already
working for many years in the Amazon region, such as INPA. Technical risks
are also addressed by CPATU and CNPSD of EMBRAPA. Extension staff would
receive extensive pre-service training in topics specifically related to the



- 46 -
project area and thereafter be updated by the research staff in refresher
courses. The Agricultural Research Unit in the State of Amazonas (UEPAE-AM)
of EMBRAPA would be strengthened and expanded with two substations to permit
quicker adaptation of EMBRAPA's research to conditions in the project area.
9.16      The successful implementation of the development of the small-scale
farmer oil palm program relies heavily on timely and proper execution of the
work programs, and the acceptance by local farmers of a more highly organized
system of cultivation. Although there is a strong tradition of communal
agricultural exploitation and the system of communal land ownership in some
parts of the state, there is a risk that the level of acceptance of this crop
new to the region and cultivation technique and untested dividend
distribution policy would encounter problems. However, the risk would be
reduced by arrangements for the participants to receive training and wages
during the immature and mature period, besides the income from their foodcrop
plot. They would be provided with housing facilities and their living
conditions would be immediately and visibly improved. The participants would
be permanently assisted by technicians who would explain the requirements of
the new crop and oil palm cultivation techniques, ready them for the transfer
of land ownership (whether communal or individual), and accompany them during
the productive phase in understanding the methodology of dividend distribu-
tion and repayment to EMADE of the on-farm investments. The project would
also provide for development of a training center to train project farmers
and EM1ADE staff, as well as participants in future expansions.  Another risk,
observed elsewhere in new oil palm cultivation frontiers, could be the inci-
dence of new pests. The EMBRAPA research center, through its experimental
plantation to be established next to the smallholder scheme, would carry out
the necessary research and assist EMADE in its pest and disease control
policy. Undoubtedly, some errors would be made and unexpected developments
would occur, but the potential for creating a stable and better basis for
income to an impoverished rural population and for stemming the current land
degradation in this area outweighs the risks involved.
9.17      Environmental.  The project is located in the Amazon Basin, which
has a well known ecologically sensitive environment. The project concen-
trates on the proper use of the suitable and more fertile varzeas of the
Solimoes and Amazon rivers, with a view to reducing the settlement pressure
on the less fertile uplands.   The project development strategy (as
illustrated in the farm models and the oil palm program) includes a minimum
of additional forest cutting for shifting cultivation and would promote
substitution of degraded vegetation by better controlled tree crop
cultivation and, in general, the promotion of sustainable agricultural
exploitation, with simultaneous preservation of flora and fauna, and
protection against excessive erosion. The project would monitor the
environmental impact under the natural resources component to reduce the risk
and to enable the timely adoption of any additional protective measures.



- 47 -
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Federal
Government that it would:
(a) enable EMBRAPA/UEPAE-AM to increase by December 31, 1983 its
research staff by 12 and publicize each year the results of
research activities performed under the project (para 4.15);
(b) make available the funding for the entire 5,000 ha oil palm program
and take all necessary steps to cause it to be executed
(para 4.29);
(c) ensure the timely availability of adequate working capital,
marketing and investment credit to project beneficiaries (para
4.41);
(d) provide adequate counterpart funding to assure effective and timely
execution of the project and parallel supporting activities, and
assure adequate operation and maintenance of project facilities and
services (para 5.02); and
(e) assure proper auditing and reporting (para 5.07).
10.02     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the State
Government that it would:
(a) employ, by December 31, 1982, consultants for the selection of
observation stations and complete, by April 1, 1984, the mapping
manual of natural resources (para 4.11);
(b) employ, by December 31, 1982, consultants for the land
regularization activities (para 4.14);
(c)  employ, by.December 31, 1982, consultants for farmer organization
and agricultural extension methodology; increase by December 31,
1983, the staff of EMATER-AM in the project area by 86; and put in
place, by December 31, 1984, the remaining 42 staff to be employed
under the component (para 4.19);
(d) complete, by December 31, 1982, the seed processing and storage
facilities under construction and appropriately increase the seed
supply staff of CODEAGRO (para 4.21);
(e) employ, by December 31, 1982, consultant services satisfactory to
the Bank to assist CODEAGRO in its reorganization; provide to the
Bank satisfactory feasibility studies and execution proposals for
any marketing facilities, prior to initiating construction; provide
to the Bank, prior to initiation of the cargo boat lease/
purchase scheme, a satisfactory evaluation of the pilot scheme and
detailed plans for the rental or purchase options to be offered;
and cause CODEAGRO to recover from users the costs associated with
proposed CODEAGRO boat and truck services (para 4.23);



- 48 -
(f) employ, by December 31, 1982, consultants for the transport
activities; present yearly by June 30 to the Bank evaluations of
the transport component activities; prior to initiating waterway
clearing works, present to the Bank satisfactory working maps,
working plans and budget estimates; prior to initiating feeder
road, community track or mooring site construction in a particular
municipality, enter into an agreement between SETRAN and the
municipality establishing maintenance responsibilites (para 4.25);
(g) provide the telecommunication services in communities of 50
families or more, sufficiently trained and organized to operate the
services (para 4.27);
(h) complete, by September 30, 1982, the final survey and detailed
mapping of the area to be planted; make available the funding for
the entire 5,000 ha oil palm program and cause it to be executed;
secure hybrid seeds satisfactory to the Bank; enter into and
maintain satisfactory contracted arrangements with beneficiaries
covering land tenure and dividend policy, a satisfactory draft
model of such agreement to be provided to the Bank by June 30,
1983; employ, by September 30, 1982, consultant services to help in
designing and establishing a cost accounting system; and prior to
the installation of milling facilities, provide the Bank with
satisfactory evidence of progress in planting, and appoint a
satisfactory senior processing advisor (paras 4.29-4.32);
(i) employ, by December 31, 1982, consultants to assist in development
of the new curriculum; ensure, by not later than April 1, 1985,
that the new curriculum would be operational and the school meal
program implemented; and subject school construction to the
conclusion between the state and the pertinent municipality of an
agreement establishing responsibilities for teacher salaries,
school maintenance and provision of materials and supplies (para
4.34);
(j) employ, by December 31, 1982, consultants to assist in the health
component activities; complete, by October 1, 1983, satisfactory
field manuals and supervision guidelines and prior to construction
of water supply systems, enter into an agreement between SESAU, the
municipality and the local user association, establishing
maintenance responsibilities (para 4.37);
(k) evaluate, in consultation with the Bank, by April 1, 1984, or
expenditures of US$250,000 equivalent, whichever comes first, the
impact and operation of the community development fund before
continuing its operation (para 4.38);
(1) provide adequate funding and acquire land and rights-of-way needed
for timely project execution, and assure adequate operation and
maintenance of project facilities and services (para 5.02);
(m)  ensure maintenance of separate project accounts and arrange
appropriate audits (para 5.07);



- 49 -
(n) maintain an adequate and qualified staff the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) and its local offices (para 6.02); and consult with the
Bank prior to any change in the Project Coordinator or the EMADE's
Project Manager in Tefe (para 6.03);
(o)  enter into and maintain satisfactory project execution agreements
with executing agencies and between such agencies and local
entities and inform the Bank about major amendments to these
agreements (para 6.04);
(p)  forward to the Bank for comment the annual work plan and budget
proposal not later than November 30 of each year (para 6.05);
(q) provide the Bank with quarterly monitoring reports within two
months after the end of the period under review and the Completion
Report within six months after project completion (para 6.07); and
(r) employ, by December 31, 1982, consultant services for the training
of evaluation staff and setting up of evaluation work programs; and
present to the Bank the annual evaluation reports within six months
of the end of each year (para 6.08).
10.03     Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) for the transport component, that the SETRAN
coordination/supervison team had been appointed (para 4.25);
and the component execution agreement signed (para 6.04);
(b) for the smallholder oil palm program, that key EMADE managerial
personnel, except maintenance and processing managers, and a
satisfactory senior field management adviser had been appointed
(para 4.32); and the component execution agreement signed (para
6.04);
(c) for the education component, that the coordinating unit in SEDUC
had been appointed (para 4.34); and the component execution
agreement signed (para 6.04);
(d) for the health, sanitation and water supply component, that the
component coordinating unit in SESAU had been appointed (para
4.37); and the component execution agreement signed (para 6.04);
and
(e) for all other components, the coordinator in the executing agency
had been appointed and the component execution agreements signed
(paras 6.03 and 6.04).
10.04     No disbursements could be inade against expenditures prior to the
date of the Loan Agreement, except in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of US$700,000 on account of payments made for eligible
expenditures before such date, but after April 1, 1982 (para 5.03).
10.05     With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$26.4 million. The term would be 15
years including a three-year grace period.



- 50 -                    APPENDIX
Page 1 of 3
APPENDIX
List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File
1. State Government of Amazonas (CEPA-AM)
Amazonas Integrated Rural Development Project (PDRI)
-  Summary - 1 Volume - October 1981
-  Natural Resources Component - 2 Volumes - September 1981
-  Land Tenure Regularization - 1 Volume - September 1981
-  Agricultural Research - 1 Volume - October 1981
-  Technical Assistance and Rural Extension - 3 Volumes -
September 1981 - January 1982
-  Farm Budgets - 2 Volumes - September 1981
-  Seed and Planting Material production - 2 Volumes -
October 1981
-  Marketing Component - 1 Volume - September 1981
-  River Transport Improvement - 1 Volume - September 1981
-  Agro-Industrial Oil Palm Scheme in Tefe - 3 Volumes -
October 1981
-  Telecommunication Component - 1 Volume - September 1981
-  Transport Component - 1 Volume - September 1981
-  Education Component - 2 Volumes - September 1981
-  Health and Sanitation Component - 2 Volumes - September 1981
-  Community Fund - 1 Volume - September 1981
-  Administration and Monitoring - 1 Volume - October 1981
-  Evaluation - 1 Volume - October 1981
2. State Government of Amazonas (SEPROR)
- SEPROR-ITERAM - Legal Documents related to land tenure
regularization in the State of Amazonas - I Volume - 1981
-  SEPROR-CEPA-AM - Drafts agreements (convenios) between the
state and the executing agencies of PRORURAL projects.
1 Volume - 1981
- Copies of Various Official Documents; Decree/Law for
Creation of:
PRORURAL (No. 5768, August 18, 1981)
PDRI (No. 5769, August 18, 1981)
EMADE (No. 1510, January 13, 1982)
- Signed and draft Convenios and Contracts (2 Volumes -
April 1982):
(a) Studies of Natural Resources:
SEPROR and CODEAMA (April 22, 1982)
(b) Land Tenure Regularization:
SEPROR and ITERAM (August 21, 1981 - Addendum
dated April 22, 1982)
ITERAM and INCRA (May 6, 1981 - Draft Convenio
for one year extension starting from May 5, 1982)



APPENDIX
- 51 -                     Page 2 of 3
List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File Con'd.
ITERAM and Municipality of Urucara
(March 10, 1980)
ITERAM and Municipality of Barreirinha
(March 10, 1980)
ITERAM and Municipality of Parintins
(March 10, 1980)
ITERAM and BEA (December 27, 1979)
(c) Adaptive Research:
SEPROR and EMBRAPA/UEPAE-AM (April 22, 1982)
EMBRAPA/UEPAE-AM and INPA (draft)
EMBRAPA/UEPAE-AM and EMATER (draft)
EMBRAPA/UEPAE-AM and CODEAGRO (draft)
EMBRAPA/UEPAE-AM and FUA (draft)
(d) Rural Extension:
SEPROR and EMATER-AM (August 21, 1981 -
Addendum dated April 22, 1982)
(e) Improved Seed Supply:
SEPROR and CODEAGRO (August 21, 1981 -
Addendum dated April 22, 1982)
CODEAGRO and COOPJUTA (draft)
(f) Marketing and Assistance to Cooperatives:
SEPROR and CODEAGRO (August 21, 1981 -
Addendum dated April 22, 1982)
CODEAGRO and BRASCOOP (draft)
CODEAGRO and COBAL (draft)
CODEAGRO and COOPCAR (draft)
CODEAGRO and COOPJUTA (draft)
(g) Transport:
SEPROR and SETRAN (April 22, 1982)
SETRAN, DER-AM and the Municipalities of Careiro,
Urucara and Barreirinha (drafts)
(h) Telecommunication:
SEPROR and TELEAMAZON (April 22, 1982)
(i) Smallholder Oil Palm Program:
EMADE Statute (April 1982)
Appointment of the Chairman and Members of the
Board (April 22, 1982)
Convenios between EMADE and ITERAM, EMATER-AM,
CODEAGRO, SETRAN, SESAU, SEDUC and the
Municipality of Tefe (drafts)
(j) Education:
SEPROR and SEDUC (April 22, 1982)
SEDUC and EMATER-AM (drafts)
SEDUC and the Municipalities of Careiro,
Urucara, Barreirinha, Parintins and
Manacapuru (drafts)



APPENDIX:
- 52 -                     Page 3 of 3
List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File Con'd.
(k) Health, Sanitation and Water Supply:
SEPROR and SESAU (April 22, 1982)
SESAU and FSESP (draft)
SESAU and COSA2MA (draft)
SESAU, Municipality of Careiro and
Communities (draft)
(1) Evaluation:
SEPROR and CODEAMA (April 22, 1982)
CODEAMA and PIMES (draft)
- Work Plan and Budget for fiscal year 1982/83
(1 Volume - March 1982)
3. Miscellaneous
- EMBRAPA/UEPAE-AM - Agricultural Research Results -
1 Volume - October 1981
- IBRD - Working papers from preparation and appraisal
mission members.
LCP
May 1982



I BRD 16251
iLOMBLA.        6 RoN                 70°                 68                    66) 64¢                                  62-                    BR AZ I L 68MARCH 642
0                                                    > > -2- t V E N E Z U E LA               -m STATE OF AMAZONAS
-2-                    ENEZUELA    /'   AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERJ/   I~. BRPOPOSTA AUZ/~A ZOS I tcib V                                                                   / PProject Area
>  '   tA/t///AWA           /      t    P£OPOSFO PAU//V/  /         ng  3/     JWLM/A'  AT '6   /                            <')
MA TA PI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~APIR
do Cockoeira~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~arfii
Af C&s R                                        tA DO ACRE  (c                      L*v   ^j \                          Project Areas          86,AM Federal, State Roads
|Municipalies Selected   = Paved Roads
\   jx   X     ' ~~~~   5            1                                      >       li)  State Capltol ~~~~~State, Federal Land
lo vf Ap -- R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O NDONIAhther Selected Tawes    -                                                   *   State Boundaries
0         c LOMETORS           I                                *                                                                  v/-vRvr                             nenainlBudre
100  200 1
C 50   L 00  M60
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ,BR .16. ~  
74                  742 70                     ;-                                                     6I                   6,2
P  E  R  U                           J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8



