ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Rqort No. 13149
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1674-GH)
JUNE 14, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit=cedi (C)
US$ 1.0 (1986)=90 cedis (SAR)
. (1987)= 154 cedis
(1988)=203 cedis
(1989)= 270 cedis
(1990)=326 cedis
(1991)=367 cedis
(1992)=437 cedis
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CHCL         -      Container Handling Company Limited
EEC           -      European Economic Community
EDF           -      Economic Development Fund of EEC
ERP           -     Economic Recovery Program
ERR           -     Economic Rate of Return
ERTAP         -     Export Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project
GPA           -      Ghana Ports Authority
GPHA         -      Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority
IDA          -      International Development Association
MIS          -      Management Information System
MOTC         -      Ministry of Transport and Communications
OECF         -      Overseas/Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan
PCU           -     Project Coordination Unit
PPF           -     Project Preparation Facility of IDA
RRMP          -     Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
SF           -      Saudi Fund
TA            -     Technical Assistance
TEU           -     Twenty-foot equivalent units (containers)
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Fund
WFP           -     World Food Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA    -
Office of Director-General
Opera-tons Evaluation
June 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Ghana
Ports Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1674-GM
Attached is the tProject Completion Report on Ghana - Ports Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1674-GH)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The report includes a borrower
contribution (Part I).
The project was an essential component of the government's Economic Recovery
Program launched in the mid-eighties. Its basic objective was to provide sufficient physical ports
capacity to handle projected import and export traffic and to raise efficiency of the ports system.
Inadequate maintenance, poor organization and management had markedly reduced port
performance. The project had physical and institutional components.
Implementation, which relied on a large contingent of technical assistance (TA) staff
and benefitted from close Bank supervision, went very well overalL After some initial delays, the
physical items were completed ahead of schedule. Primarily on account of an extension of TA, to
deepen the institutional impact, the project was implemented some one and three-quarters years after
the scheduled date. Actual project costs exceeded estimated costs by about 20% due largely to
increased purchases of ports equipment.
The project achieved the intended impact: physical port capacity was restored,
efficiency was raised and port institutions were strengthened. The finances of the ports system
became sound. The reestimated economic rate of return on investment (ERR) is 43%, as compared
to the 28% estimated at appraisal; a higher than expected increase in port productivity was the main
cause for the ERR rise. Strong government commitment, good compliance with credit covenants and
determined IDA support were key factors in project success.
Project outcome was satisfactory, and institutional development input was substantiaL
Sustainability is likely. The PCR was of good quality. No performance audit is planned.
Attachment
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipienta only in the performance of
I their official dutiesc Its contents may not othervise be disclosed vithout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   ....................................................   i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                    ...........................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  .....                                 ............  1
A. Project Identification  ...................1...................... 
B. Project Background  .           .........................................  1
C. Project Objectives and Description ..................                                     2
D. Project Design and Organization ..................                                        3
E. Project Implementation                   ........................                         6
F. Major Results of the Project ..........                ..........................  9
G. Project Sustainability           ........................................   11
H. Association Performance                .....................................   11
I. Borrower Performance .............                ...........................   12
J. Project Relationships ..............              ...........................   12
K. Consulting and Contracting Services .............                  ................   12
L   Project Documentation ............                ...........................   13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... 14
PART HI. STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .............                             .................   17
A. Related Bank Loans and Credits  ..............                    .................   17
B. Project Timetable .................... .......................   17
C. Credit Data  ...............................................   18
D. Project Costs ..............................................   19
E  Results of the Project .............             ...........................   21
F. Use of Bank Resources ............                 ...........................  24
G. Compliance with Credit and Project Agreement Covenants  .... .......  26
H. Revaluation of the Economic Rate and Return  ........                     ............. 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
L official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1674-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
i.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Ports Rehabilitation Project for
which Credit 1674-GH in the amount of SDR 22.4 million (US$24.5 million equivalent) was
approved on March 27, 1986. The final disbursement was made on April 20, 1993. The
remaining funds in the credit account amounting to SDRs 2,346.1 were canceled.
ii.    The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the
Infrastructure Operations Division of the Western Africa Department. Preparation of the PCR
is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project Agreements, the
correspondence files, supervision reports and discussions with Bank staff. In addition, the
reports of two consultants, one on the privatization of Container Handling dated April 1992,
and the other on Project Completion dated January 31, 1993 provided useful and current data
for the PCR. The Borrower completed Part II of the report and made minor comments on
Part I. Mark Makanda (Financial Analyst, Infrastructure Division) was the Task Manager of
this PCR and Mr. James Wright and Mr. Edwin Lim are the Managing Division Chief and
Departmental Director, respectively for the operation.
iii.    Co-financiers included the Japanese Government, the Saudi Fund and the European
Economic Community through its Economic Development Fund. The World Food Program
contributed food which was used as an incentive for port workers. GPHA contributed funds
and the Government of Ghana provided a loan to GPHA by deferring payment of customs
duties on imported items.






- ii-
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1674-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The main project objectives were: (a) to rehabilitate the substantially run-down port
facilities in Tema and Takoradi, to enable them to handle efficiently the country's export and
import needs during the immediate and medium term; and (b) to help strengthen and
reorganize port management and port institutions in Ghana, in order to increase the efficiency
of the country's ports.
Implementation Experience
ii.    The knowledge of ports gained by IDA staff in preparing the export rehabilitation
projects contributed greatly to project identification, preparation and implementation (para.
20).
iii.   The civil and other works were successfully completed several months before the
appraisal schedule, a successful achievement, especially given the chaotic condition of the
ports at the time of project identification. Technical assistance was extended by one year to
the end of March 1993 (para. 33).
Results
iv.    The reevaluated ERR of the project is 43% as compared to 28% estimated at appraisal
(para. 39).
v.    The project has more than achieved most of the financial covenants in the Project
Agreement (paras. 40-45).
Sustainabil ity
vi.    As GPHA is now fully operational, its staff well trained; and its finances sound, its
viability should be sustainable (para. 44).
Findings and Lessons Learned
vii.   The use of food aid as an incentive for port workers and staff was an innovative
feature of the project (para. 11).



iii
viii.   The earlier export rehabilitation credits assisted the ports in carrying out emergency
repairs and in assessing the major institutional problems facing the ports. This provided a
sound basis for project preparation, especially for the institutional aspects (paras. 11-17).
ix.    Other innovative features included steps to accelerate project processing by IDA (para.
18).
x.     On a project in which the feasibility consultant has performed well, it makes sense to
use the same firm, in some cases, on the design and supervision phases, as indicated in the
Bank Guidelines for Consultant Selection (para. 33).
xi.    The chaotic condition of the ports when the project was first identified, the use of fast
disbursing export credit and a PPF to accelerate preparation, the successful reorganization of
the Ports Authority, and the expeditious implementation of a complex and difficult project
would justify the use of this project as a textbook case for training Bank staff (para. 36).
xii.    The successful execution of the project is credited to its thorough preparation, close
supervision, and careful coordination with the other major donors by IDA staff (paras. 46-48)
and to the close cooperation of the Government (para.(a)).
xiii.   With one important exception, the Borrower, and its executing agency GPHA,
performed well in achieving the objectives of the project (para. 49).
xiv.   The TA team performed well and contributed substantially to the progress made in
rehabilitating the ports and training local personnel. The advantage of using firms to supply a
large number of expert personnel rather than employing them on an individual basis was well
illustrated under this project (para. 51).



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1674-GH
PROJECT COMPLhTON REPO
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Poect Identification
Project Name:       Ports Rehabilitation Project
Credit No.:         1674-GH
RVP Unit:           Infrastructure Operation Division, Western Africa Department
Country:            Republic of Ghana
Sector:             Transportation
B. Project Background"
1.    In the early 1980's, inadequate port facilities were a severe handicap for Ghana, on
top of a severe drought. The constraint in port capacity was adversely affecting the country's
vital export traffic and its imports of food grains, spare parts and other essential goods. Even
food ships arriving with supplies for drought relief often had to wait for about a month to get
a berth, and many had to spend another 40 days to discharge a ship-load of 20,000 tons of
food grains. Due to such delays and inefficiencies, Ghana incurred high shipping costs,
freight surcharges and demurrage payments.
2.    Ghana's two main ports of Tema and Takoradi were under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC). The Ghana Ports Authority (GPA)
which, according to its enabling legislation, should have been in charge of overall port
operations and management, had inadequate management and could not exercise control over
the ports. Further, GPA's authority was often ignored by the two government-owned
stevedoring agencies which had equal access to Government.
3.    The three port agencies operated with overlapping jurisdictions and without effective
coordination. Moreover, the agencies suffered from poor management because of a shortage
of qualified and experienced staff and an ill-defined management structure, particularly
regarding the division of responsibilities between the two ports. This caused continuous
conflicts, delays to shipping, pilferage and damage to cargo. Training facilities for the ports'
Source: Initiating Project Brief dated September 7, 1984 and the SAR for the Ports
Rehabilitation Project dated March 3, 1986.



-2-
personnel were particularly inadequate. During 1982-85, GPA was run by an Interim
Management Committee which consisted of GPA officials and worker representatives;
however, port users were not represented.
4.     During the early 1980's, the capacity of virtually all transport modes in Ghana was
inadequate to meet even the reduced level of demand, and the transport system had nearly
broken down. The Government, with IDA assistance, had started to initiate an Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983 which was designed, in part, to help restore the transport
sector.
5.    IDA's initial contribution to the ERP included two fast disbursing export rehabilitation
credits: (Credit 1435-GH, Export Rehabilitation Project and Credit 1436-GH, Export
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project (ERTAP), see Part IH, Table A). These credits
provided emergency spare parts and equipment, and technical assistance
for the ports of Tema and Takoradi. The purpose of these credits was to keep the ports
operating, provide training and management support, and initiate key studies of actions needed
to strengthen port management and operations. This assistance provided the time to carry out
adequate engineering, traffic and economic investigations.Y In 1985, IDA approved a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for USS 1.0 million to carry out preliminary and detailed
engineering.
6.     The Government's transport strategy emphasized maintenance and rehabilitation of the
existing infrastructure. The proposed project formed one of the core projects included in
Ghana's 1986-88 investment program, which was prepared in consultation with IDA. The
project reinforced IDA's ongoing assistance to Ghana's ERP by: (a) removing physical
bottlenecks to expanding exports and imports; (b) supporting suitable institution building goals
in the subsector; and (c) attracting the attention and financing of other international aid
agencies towards these important objectives, while directing the flow of external funds to the
ports' essential needs.
C. Project Objectives and Description
7.    Obiectives. F The main project objectives were: (a) to rehabilitate the port facilities
in Tema and Takoradi in order to enable them to handle the country's export and import
needs efficiently during the immediate and medium term; and (b) to strengthen and reorganize
port management and port institutions in order to increase the efficiency of the ports.
8.    prject Descrigtion.1 To assist in fulfilling the objectives, the project provided
financial assistance for the ports of Tema and Takoradi, as summarized below:
Memorandum dated September 17, 1984.
SAR, para. 3.02.
i      SAR, para. 3.05.



-3 -
(a)    Port Rehabilitation and Modernization
(i)    repair and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and facilities;
(ii)   removal of sunken vessels and other wrecks;
(iii)   provision of container and roll-on/roll-off facilities at Tema;
(iv)   provision of cargo handling equipment, communications and office
equipment, and floating craft; and
(v)    repair of salvageable equipment.
(b)    Institutional Strengthening
(i)   technical assistance to strengthen management in the GPHA, including
GPHA headquarters and port management at Tema and Takoradi;
(ii)   training program for port managers, staff and skilled workers; and
(iii)   project supervision and coordination.
D. Prect Design and Or'anization F
9.    The project was identified in May 1984 by an IDA mission which outlined in an Aide-
Memoire 1' the steps to be taken for project preparation. These included the emergency
purchase of spare parts and equipment to keep the ports running and technical assistance to
prepare lists of parts and equipment needed, to develop procurement procedures and for
studies. The latter included a study to restructure the port organization and prepare an action
plan, a study to establish a new container company to operate a new container yard to be built
under the project, and a study to streamline container and ports documentation procedures.
The mission also prepared an application for PPF financing to prepare an investment program
which was approved on October 22, 1984.
10.   Both Tema and Takoradi had been built with ample capacity, but their effective
capacity was severely limited. Many factors had contributed to the deterioration in the
efficiency of Ghana's ports from their excellent condition in the sixties, when cocoa ships
used to be loaded at a rate of 2,400 tons per day compared to about 280 tons in 1984, and
when there were no penalties on ocean freight to or from Ghana. The main causes were the
following:
(a)    Lack of preventive and regular maintenance. Due to the shortage of foreign
exchange and resulting unavailability of spare parts, most of the port facilities
and equipment had had no regular maintenance for about 10 years.
Initiating Project Brief dated September 7, 1984 and the SAR for Ports Rehabilitation
Project dated March 3, 1986.
Aide Memoire dated June 5, 1984.



-4 -
(b)    Silation. Due to the poor condition of the dredgers, maintenance dredging
had been neglected for years, and there was considerable accumulation of silt
in the ports, reducing permissible drafts. Rough readings available showed
that some of the deep water berths in Tema had about 1.0 m of silt.
(c)    Port Management Problems. Due to frequent personnel changes under
changing Governments, and the unclear demarcation of responsibilities and
authority between the three Government agencies running port activities, port
efficiency had suffered considerably.
(d)    Other Factors. Other factors which inhibited port productivity were: near-
absence of night operations in the port, due to lack of lighting in
the port area, lack of transport for dock workers, and curfew restrictions.
Another major inhibiting factor had been the lack of food, which had
resulted in high absenteeism and low productivity.
11.   By early 1986, some recovery of the ports had already taken place with assistance
from IDA and other lending agencies. The port agencies have benefitted from the purchase of
emergency spare parts and some limited equipment and crafts financed under the ERP, and
also from essential technical assistance provided through the ERTAP. Concurrently, port
labor productivity had been stabilized and improved since 1984 when the World Food
Programme (WFP), working in cooperation with IDA, launched a three-year program to
supply imported food items as an incentive to the workers and staff of the port agencies.
Since 1983, Government had allowed the port agencies to levy port charges on foreign ships
in foreign exchange, and to retain 20% of the foreign exchange receipts in their own accounts
to buy spare parts and other essential goods.
12.   The diagnostic study by port management consultants financed under ERTAP was
completed in November 1984. Based on the study's findings, Government
agreed, during project appraisal in May 1985 to implement a reorganization plan on the
following lines: (a) establish the Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority (GPHA) under a Board
of Directors with adequate user representation, and orient GPHA's operations on commercial
principles; (b) make the two ports of Tema and Takoradi semi-autonomous, and competitive
with each other on the basis of service efficiency, while the GPHA Head Office would
coordinate general policy, overall financing, investment planning, training and other areas of
common interest; (c) reinforce the present role of the existing government-owned stevedoring
companies at Takoradi with provision for future increases in the private sector share; and (d)
establish a new container handling company with majority participation of the private sector
(51%) and with private sector management, with the objective of ensuring efficient
management.
13.   According to the timetable for reorganization agreed between Government and IDA,
the Govermnent undertook to reorganize the port agencies by enacting the GPHA Law and
establishing GPHA in early 1986, before the proposed Credit was presented to IDA's Board.
An action plan and timetable for strengthening GPHA management and operations had also
been agreed. Government had further agreed that the new container company would be
incorporated by June 1986 which was a condition of credit effectiveness. It was also agreed



-5 -
that the new company would start operations, within 12 months of its incorporation, on a
temporary container yard to be provided by GPHA, pending completion of a full container
yard under the proposed project.
14.   In addition to the Board Chairman, GPHA had a Director General as chief executive,
and a Director for each port. The two port directors were members of the Board to ensure
their independent status. GPHA and Government had agreed to prepare port regulations
under the GPHA Law, to ensure that GPHA would operate on sound commercial principles
and that the GPHA Head Office would not interfere in the day-to-day operations of the
individual ports which will be semi-autonomous. GPHA would have rate making authority
subject to the general guidance of the Government. Key positions in the GPHA were filled;
arrangements for matching personnel to agreed job descriptions, prepared by Consultants were
substantially completed by end of June 1986. The project provided for substantial expatriate
expertise to strengthen GPHA management and to fill key positions.
15.   By early 1986, to strengthen port management, steps had already been taken to: (a)
appoint a highly competent director in charge of GPHA and appoint selected experienced
managers to key positions in GPHA; (b) engage individual consultants for repairing equipment
and civil works maintenance, procure equipment, and to reorganize port accounts; (c) include
in the rehabilitation project a technical assistance program aimed at bringing expatriate experts
to assist management of key departments on a temporary basis, and at developing a
recruitment and training program; and (d) appoint port management consultants, as a follow-
up of earlier studies, to recommend (i) a detailed management structure for the reorganized
GPHA, (ii) a staff distribution and manning levels under the new organization, (iii) a uniform
tariff and billing system, and (iv) organizational arrangements to be followed by the proposed
new container company. Based on a review of the study's interim findings, an action plan
was agreed during credit negotiations, including a timetable of main actions to be
implemented to strengthen management. The action plan included operational targets for
improved port productivity, and target dates for completing the restructuring of GPA
management, introducing incentive wage systems, studying and proposing tariff reforms,
preparing future investment plans, and taking other necessary steps.
16.   To increase private participation and competition, the Government and GPHA agreed
to the following measures: (a) maintain, as a minimum, the present share of 25% of stevedore
operations by the two private stevedoring companies operating in Tema and Takoradi up to
end-1989, and provide them with adequate foreign exchange retention and access to the
training program under the project; (b) complete a study, before March 31, 1989, on
measures for further increasing the role of private sector firms in port handling operations,
with emphasis on competition; and (c) in light of review of the above study, agree with IDA,
before June 30, 1989, on a plan for implementing an enhanced role for the private sector in
port handling operations from January 1990.
17.   Another action needed to improve Ghana's port subsector was to streamline customs
and port documentation procedures which were very complex and caused undue delays.
GPHA had agreed to engage consultants, financed by ERTAP, to study this problem and to
suggest improvements. By early 1986, an interim study had been completed and the final
study was to be undertaken. The Government and GPHA agreed, during negotiations, to: (a)



-6 -
have this study completed before December 31, 1986; and (b) prepare, before June 30, 1987,
an implementation program and timetable acceptable to the Association, in light of the study
findings, and to implement it accordingly.
18.   The project was appraised in May 1985, by which time most issues had already been
settled and the cofinancing identified. The credit was negotiated in January 1986 in three
days with only one change of substance in the Loan Committee package. This change,
involving a postponement in the establishment of the container company, turned out to be the
only part of the project that was not implemented (para. 29).
E. Prolect Implementation
19.   Credit Effectiveness. The Credit was approved on March 27, 1986, signed on April
4, 1986 and became effective on November 4, 1986. A loan agreement between the Overseas
Economic Cooperative Fund (OECF) of Japan and the Government of Ghana for equipment
was signed on October 25, 1985. OECF closely coordinated its loan with IDA's Credit 1435-
GH (para 5) and the new project.
mementation
20.   The knowledge of the problems of Ghana ports gained by IDA staff in preparing and
supervising the Export Rehabilitation Project and the ERTAP (para 5) contributed greatly to
project identification and preparation. Thus, within about 18 months after identification,
major remedial measures to strengthen port institutions had already been taken.
21.   The civil works were divided into four lots, one each to be financed by IDA and the
Saudi Fund at Tema, and one each by IDA and the Economic Development Fund (EDF) of
the European Economic Community (EEC) at Takoradi. The procurement guidelines of each
financing agency had to be taken into account in the bid documentation. IDA also financed
the removal of sunken vessels and other wrecks and the entire TA program, including
consulting services. The OECF and IDA financed cargo handling and port equipment.
22.   Prgject Start-. The first supervision visit was made in March/April 1986, at about
the time of credit signing. The mission found some confusion at the ports as the GPHA law
under which they were to operate had not yet been passed. However, by the end of 1986, the
merger between GPA and the two private stevedoring agencies had been completed, GPHA
had been established and officials appointed to the top positions at both ports. Lower level
positions were still being filled. GPHA had started preparing an action plan to strengthen
port management and improve operations. Also a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) had been
established.
23.   A contract for wreck removal was awarded on October 10, 1986. Work was started
in November 1986, and by February 1987, 39 wrecks had been removed at Takoradi
including 12 extra lighters and a moving buoy.2' The removal of the wrecks at Tema was
ZL    Letter from GPHA dated February 12, 1987.



-7 -
completed on April 20, 1987. Procurement of equipment and floating craft got underway
early in 1986. Procurement of equipment posed a considerable amount of work for the TA
managers and advisors, as the lists of equipment and spare parts had to be updated in the light
of more detailed knowledge of the poor condition of existing equipment.
24.   Project Execution. Prequalification for the civil works contracts was completed early
in 1986 with as many as 50 contractors approved. Contracts were not signed until October
1987 because of delays in securing the approval for awards from the Government's Public
Agreement Board. Despite the potential loss of some savings by combining contracts, GPHA
did benefit by the timely performance of the four civil works contractors. This was
particularly important as considerable additional work was awarded as execution progressed
(para. 28).
25.   A supervision report dated October 30, 1987 noted that start-up of civil works was
delayed by about 14 months after the date foreseen in the SAR. However, construction time
had been set at 36 months rather than the 48 months assumed at appraisal. The civil works
contracts were completed well ahead of the scheduled project completion date of September
30, 1991. Takoradi Port was commissioned on September 14, 1990 while Tema Port was
commissioned less than a year later on May 17, 1991.
26.   Capacity Building. The TA team consisted of 11 experts. Eight were supplied by a
German firm, consisting of a project coordinator and operational and mechanical personnel.
Three financial experts were supplied by a UK firm to install a Management Information
System (MIS). The experts were placed in line positions with responsibility to train Ghanian
counterpart personnel to take over from them. A large number of Ghanian staff at all levels
were sent abroad for training in port operations.
27.   An IDA supervision mission in March 1990, noted that GPHA and the MOTC were
reluctant to extend the TA contracts regardless of the extent to which the technological
transfer of expertise had been attained because of growing concern that there were too many
expatriates occupying key positions in Ghana.
28.   Additional Works. The Saudi Fund agreed to allow the remaining balance of its
credit of about US$4 million for additional paving of container storage areas at Tema. The
EDF financed additional civil works which were outside its original commitment. These
included (i) reinforcement of a quay structure and a wharf and the rehabilitation of a wooden
shed at Takoradi for US$12 million; and (ii) maintenance dredging works at Tema and
Takoradi for US$4 million. IDA approved the use of some of its surplus funds for the survey
and design of these additional works.
29.   Container Handline Company Limited (CHCL). The establishment of this company at
Tema is the single major project item on which little progress has been made to date. MOTC
and GPHA have not acted to establish this company, despite a clear commitment in the Credit
Agreement to do so. GPHA finally carried out a feasibility study in 1991 on privatization and
how the profits would be shared between GPHA and CHCL. The study showed that



-8 -
privatization was feasible and proposed a profit sharing scheme.r A second study carried
out by the a Bank consultant in April 1992 recommended that the immediate start up of
CHCL would lead to a tariff reduction of about 10%. The consultant also recommended that
a second container handling company be established in 1994 to provide a better basis for
competition. To date, the Government has not acted to establish a CHCL because of concerns
including the reaction of the labor force.
30.   Project Completion. Overall, the completion of works was ahead of schedule. The
rehabilitation of cargo handling and port equipment, the strengthening of the management of
the ports by the technical assistance team, and the development of the MIS were most
successful achievements, especially given the chaotic state of the ports at the time of project
identification. The failure to establish the CHCL is the one major commitment of the
Government on which little progress has been made, although the issue has been thoroughly
discussed (para. 29).
31.   Procurement. The project called for a large volume of procurement including floating
vessels, a contract for the removal of wrecks in both harbors, four large civil work contracts,
and substantial amount of technical assistance. As the GPHA was relatively inexperienced in
procurement, the project provided consultants to prepare the documentation, evaluate bids,
and recommended awards. GPHA's board, management and tender committee oversaw this
work and participated in the procurement process. The files indicate that procurement was
generally well handled and led to only a few minor issues which were resolved. GPHA
generally had no reservation about contracting for technical personnel through specialized
companies to provide technical assistance, but they objected to engaging a procurement officer
they had sought through the Crown Agents, and tried to hire the candidate directly. He
refused to accept GPHA's offer, and GPHA awarded a contract to another firm.
32.   GPHA extended the contract of its consultant for supervision in line with Bank
Guidelines because of the firm's experience gained on the design work and its satisfactory
performance. GPHA also reduced the supervision costs by a further US$1 million, in
addition to the 12% discount from the firm, and signed the contract without any additional
delay ahead of start of construction works.
33.   Disbursements. The credit account was almost fully disbursed. On April 20, 1993
the remaining SDRs 2,346.11 were canceled. The closing date was extended by one year to
March 31, 1993 to permit further consideration of the establishment of CHCL.
34.   Project Costs. The project was completed for total cost of US$115.0 million as
compared to the appraisal cost of US$95.8 million, the difference being attributable to import
taxes which were not provided for during the appraisal stage. The Government of Ghana
Memorandum by a consultant, dated September 30, 1991.
Report on Privatization of Container Handling Tema Port, Ghana; April 1992 by a
Bank Consultant.



- 9 -
contributed about US$17.0 in deferred payment of import taxes. The appraisal and final cost
estimates are shown in Table D(i). The co-financing plan is given in Table D(ii).
F. Major Results of the Project
35.   Traffic. .  In 1975 the combined traffic of the ports of Tema and Takoradi was 4.7
million tons. Following the successful implementation of the country's economic recovery
program, and the substantial completion of the project, traffic recovered to 5.0 million tons in
1990, 5.3 million tons in 1991, and an estimated 5.7 million tons in 1992. The 1990 figure
represents an increase of 16.4% over that projected in the SAR.
36.   A considerable variation in the flow of main commodities on a year to year basis was
noted by the consultants at both ports (Tables E(i) and (ii)). In 1992 imports at Tema of
velcro and cement were up substantially while liquid bulk imports declined. On the export
side, large increases were noted for cocoa, general cargo and liquid bulk. In Takoradi, solid
bulk exports and bauxite exports were up thanks to the improved performance of the railways,
but general cargo imports were off. Port productivity has increased with the drop of ship turn
around time from 3.5 days to 1.8 days in Tema and to 2.4 days in Takoradi.
37.   The most striking development is the rapid growth of container traffic at Tema (Table
E(iii)). The 1992 estimate of 84,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEU) exceeds the figure of
69,400 projected in the SAR for 1995. On the other hand, the Takoradi container throughput
in 1991 was only 9100 TEU and is expected to decline further in 1992. This is a result of the
commodity mix at each port and the tendency of the major shipping lines to conceaLrate
container traffic on a limited number of ports of call.
38.   Operational Performance. The Bank's consultant concluded that the daily output rates
prevailing in Tema in 1991 and 1992 were generally satisfactory and an improvement over the
target outputs in the SAR. This result has been made possible by the implementation of the
Ports Project and the upgrading of the ports infrastructure and equipment. The three risk
factors which could jeopardize the ports output performance in the coming years would be a
fiurther increase in traffic levels, a relaxation of operational discipline and a reduction in the
quality of equipment maintenance. On the other hand, the cargo-handling performance at
Takoradi for 1992 was no better than in 1985, and was rated as disappointing. This is
because the traditional traffic at Takoradi is either stagnating or declining, and container
traffic is increasingly being concentrated at Tema.
39.   Economic Performance. The recalculated economic rate of return (ERR) based on the
project's cost and benefit flows are 49% for Tema and 36% for Takoradi. The combined
ERR for the project is 43 % and compares very favorably with the SAR's estimate of 27% for
Tema, 29% for Takoradi or a combined ERR of 28% (See Annex for details). The good
project results are based on reduction of port congestion and an improvement of handling
productivity. An additional benefit, not quantified, is that due to the dredging at Tema, the
port can accommodate larger bulk carriers and thus a savings in the number of voyages required.
a     Source: Report on Project Completion by a Bank Consultant, dated January 31, 1993



- 10 -
40.   Financial Performance. Annexes E(iv) to (vi) present a comparison between actual
and projected financial results over the years 1986 to 1992. GPHA has met most of the
financial covenants in the project agreement. GPHA was required to ensure adequate tariff
increases in order to cover all operating expenses and interest costs. As evidenced in the
Annexes, GPHA's financial performance in the period 1986 to 1992 exceeded the set targets
in the SAR. GPHA's actual revenue growth averaged about 224% per year compared to 10%
in the forecasts over the period 1986 to 1992. This was attributable mainly to: (a) the
increases in tariffs; (b) the persistent devaluation of the Cedi against the major currencies in
this period (50% of GPHA's revenue is in convertible currency); and (c) the upsurge in cargo
volume noted in paragraphs 35-36. The major operating revenue item contributors to this
growth were stevedoring and shorehandling which contributed 31% and 23% respectively
over the period 1986 to 1992.
41.  Operating costs fell by 175% between 1986 and 1987 and by 27% between 1990 and
1992. This has been mainly due to the decrease in payroll costs which, before and during
project implementation, constituted the highest operating cost item of the operating costs. The
fall in payroll costs from 81% to 40% of total operating costs between 1986 and 1992, was
due to staff retrenchment from 7800 in 1985 to 2885 in 1991 following the reorganization of
GPHA.
42.    During period 1987 to 1991, GPHA was financially self-sufficient as evidenced by
financing of the replacement capital assets through internally generally cash (Annex E(vi)).
GPHA did not undertake any additional borrowing as required by the debt limitation
covenant.
43.   GPHA's profitability during the period 1986 to 1992 surpassed the forecasts. The
annual average operating and working ratios for this period were 82% and 88% respectively
and the average return on net fixed assets in operation was 60% during the project implemen-
tation period from 1986 to 1991 based on historical cost figures, but falls to 48% in 1992,
after fixed assets revaluation in 1992.
44.   During the period, the average current and liquidity ratios were 4.7 and 4.4,
respectively and this highlights GPHA's solid financial condition. This compares with the
average forecast of 2 and 1 for the current and liquidity ratios, respectively for the period of
1986 to 1992. Since reorganization, GPHA has operated on a commercial basis with
management operating on a semi-autonomous basis.
45.   Receivables UI are in a somewhat worse situation than the limit set in the SAR.
This is due to domestic debtors who are facing financial problems. In addition, GPHA had
been lax in enforcing a tighter debt recovery policy during the period of project
implementation. In order to redress this adverse position, the management is implementing
the following policies: (a) advance payments by clients for any shorehandling; (b) charging
interest on accrued balances; and (c) lifting the corporate veil and commit directors to honor
some of their corporate debts.
lk     Receivables percentage is total receivables divided by the total operating revenues.



- I1 -
GPHA - Summary of Receivables Position
____ 0 1986   19872m j                         198 I 1199  i1 11
Limits per SAR(%)       1 60          50       33        25       25       20
Actual Result (%)       |  126.5  I  33.8  | 67.5        57   I  61   I  55 
G. Project Sustainability
46.   GPHA is now fully operational with its facilities completely restored under the
project, and its staff adequately trained in all aspects of port administration (see para. 50).
GPHA is financially sound and is playing an essential role in the country's import and export
activities. In the light of the above, GPHA's viability should be sustainable. GPHA pointed
out in its draft PCR I2 that the major factor in its continued success will be influenced by
the privatization policies of the Government and GPHA (para. 29).
H. Association Performance
47.   The most important aspect of the Association's performance was the thorough nature
of the preparation of the project. By the time the project was presented to IDA's Board, a
long list of preparatory steps had been taken which enabled project execution to start quickly
with relatively smooth implementation. This process was facilitated by the earlier ERP and
ERTAP.
48.   The supervision coverage was generally good with visits averaging three times a year
during the busiest execution period as shown in Table H (ii). Most supervision reports were
adequate except that no detailed cost data were included. Form 590's are missing for three
visits. In one case, no supervision report was prepared, however, a letter was written to
GPHA highlighting the findings of the mission. IDA also played a key role in the selection of
the TA experts and frequently assessed the performance of each individual team member
which contributed greatly to the success of the project. IDA carefully coordinated with the
co-donors who also played an important role in the execution of the project. The Association
was flexible in amending the lists of equipment and parts to be purchased, and in adjusting the
allocations of the credit proceeds to meet current needs.
I. Borrower Performance
49.   The Borrower generally performed well and cooperated fully in achieving the
objectives of the project with the exceptions noted in paras 27 and 29. It took the appropriate
legal action in establishing the GPHA (para 2). Adequate local funding was provided, and the
Ministry of Finance and Economy assisted GPHA in facilitating its contracts with co-donors
whenever it was requested to do so. The Government appointed a strong and experienced
Iv    GPHA draft PCR, page 13.



- 12 -
administrator to head up GPHA. Upon his transfer to another organization in March 1988,
he was replaced by a senior Government official who also cooperated closely with IDA.
50.   The GPHA was generally soundly managed and cooperated closely with IDA. It
accepted expatriate technical assistance up to about 1990 (para 27). GPHA sent key staff
overseas for specialized training as recommended by advisors and on completion of training,
they have returned to their positions at GPHA. The one major omission of the Government
and GPHA to-date has been the failure to establish the CHCL (para 29). This step may
eventually be taken since GPHA is not against privatization in principle, but is concerned
about upsetting its relations with its labor force.
51.   Both Part I (para. 23) and Part H (para. 3) of the PCR note the confusion at the time
of the reorganization of the GPHA. Given the magnitude of the task, this would appear to
have been a normal transition. The remarkable aspect is that the transition period was so
short, and that the newly established GPHA took hold as quickly and effectively as it did.
J. Project Relationships
52.   Relations between the Government, GPHA and IDA were generally close. GPHA
kept IDA well informed on progress of the work and of any difficulties that arose. Good
relations also seem to have generally prevailed between GPHA, its civil works consultants,
and the TA team. The GPHA noted in its draft PCR that 'a very close relationship between
GPHA management and staff on one side; and consultants, contractors as well as suppliers on
the other side resulted in good transfer of knowledge in all aspects of the project".
K. Consulting and Contracting Services
53.   The impression gained from a review of the project is that the civil works supervision
consultant performed well. While there was the occasional criticism that this consultant
should have uncovered earlier some of the technical problems which arose during
construction, particularly with regard to the electrical system, the civil works mainly involved
rehabilitation of existing structures and utilities. Under these circumstances, problems cannot
always be foreseen until the works have been finished and the condition of the structures and
the utilities can be more accurately assessed.
54.   The TA team provided by two separate firms also performed well and contributed
substantially to the progress made in rehabilitating the ports and training local personnel. The
advantage of using firms to supply a large number of expert personnel, rather than employing
them on an individual basis, was well illustrated under this project. Non-performing,
unsuitable or ill TA staff can be replaced, and without the time consuming involvement of
IDA or GPHA staff to identify replacements. The civil works contractors, the contractor for
the removal of wrecks, and the equipment suppliers generally performed satisfactorily.
L. Project Documentation
55.   The credit and project agreements were adequate and appropriate for achieving project
objectives, and the appraisal report provided a useful framework for implementation. The



- 13 -
correspondence files are complete. They contain about one dozen misfiled documents related
to other projects. Some of the earlier cables and telexes are so faint that they are difficult to
read.






- 14 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDITIè674GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    We would like to reflect and assess on the implementation of the agreements and
covenants contained in the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report vis-a-vis the Bank's own guidelines
and procedures and its impact on the project. The comments are as brief as possible and do
not cover implementation details since all necessary information can be recalled from the
quarterly project reports submitted to the Bank.
2.    The Statistical Information, given in Part Ill of the PCR, tally with the data of our
MIS, MAS and Finance Departments and are, therefore, accepted by GPHA.
3.    On the whole, we are in harmony, with the analysis contained in Part I of our report
but would like to comment on some subjects as follows:
(a)    One of the major problems right at the beginning of the project was the
necessity to merge the three operating companies at the same time as the start
up of the project was due. A minimum of 9-12 months in between these two
main steps, incorporated into the project time-frame, would have allowed for
consolidation of the new authority and avoided most of the managerial and
personnel problems which hampered the smooth take off of the rehabilitation
project.
GPHA believes that it should be possible to amend the staff appraisal report
with the Bank if so required.1-'
Possible reasons are:
(i)    Changes in Government Policies (i.e. Ban on Log Export);
(ii)    Dynamic nature of the port industry, changes in the industrial environment
(i.e. containerization of traditional export goods, like cocoa, sawn timber &
veneer; development of new ships and cargo handling equipment).
The SAR was well prepared during appraisal but it is, today, questionable in
connection with some of the assumptions made.
See Part I, para. 47.



- 15 -
(b)    Although, GPHA considered the working relationship between the consultants
and their counterparts very successful, it has to be mentioned that a tougher
approach in selection procedures for consultants and counterparts and
financially-motivated counterparts could have led to better and faster results
for both parties involved.
The Bank should strongly support at Governmental level the approach that
better qualifications, and man-month rates or salaries do not automatically
mean higher costs at the end of the project. In short, more emphasis should
be put on quality and standards.
(c)    Especially in developing countries like Ghana, it is an absolute must to allow
for standardization of technical equipment. Under the current purchase
regulations of the funding agencies, it is believed that because of the high
weighing given to price, this is nearly automatically excluded and thus
resulting in unnecessary maintenance and operation costs after project
completion.
Once again, what looks reasonable at the beginning could turn out as the most
expensive solution at the end.
(d)    One item which helped to make the project a real success was the introduction
of the project implementation committee. The involvement of all levels of
departments as well as the union assisted greatly in smooth implementation of
the project goals. Also, at times very energy-absorbing, it was worth the
effort and should be part of all complex projects like the port rehabilitation.
4.     During the take off period of the project, GPHA had great difficulties in getting
started. As already mentioned under item 3, the main reason was the need to undertake two
major operations at the same time with insufficient time for consolidation of the reshuffled
management.
5.     After the first nine months, the project became an integrated part of the daily routine
of GPHA, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance. Because the authorities
involved respected each others requirements and problems, the project was completed
successfully.
6.     Throughout the project, a very close and effective relationship between the Bank's
Washington office and the Borrower was kept. The Bank also helped to establish and keep
good contacts with the other funding agencies and assisted whenever necessary, even outside
their responsibility, to keep the project going.
7.     At the very beginning of the project, it would have been appreciated if a stronger
Bank support at the ministerial level in connection with political decisions required had been
put in place.



- 16 -
8.    The project, supported by three co-financiers, was in the position to honor all
contractual obligations with the exception of the contract financed by the Saudi Fund. During
the project years, not a single invoice by that funding agency was paid within the contractual
time limits. In order to avoid payments covering interest due to the contractor, GPHA was
forced to undergo complicated prepayment procedures from its own funds. Without GPHA-
owned foreign funds available, the situation could have brought the Tema project to a
complete standstill.
9.    The EEC Delegation in Ghana was always in very close contact with the Authorities
and the good cooperation played a major role in the successful completion of the project.
10.   Financing the largest part of the rehabilitation and not represented in Ghana, OECF
handled all activities very efficiently and allowed for smooth cooperation over the full length
of their part of the project. OECF's requirement to tender in bulk led to the problem of
being forced to buy via a trading company and not from the manufacturer. Thus, this
resulted in extra cost not only during the project period but also during the life span of the
equipment.



- 17 -
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                 Purpose              Approval        Status
Credit 1435-GH                 Provided, among other items,     1984        Completed
Export Rehabilitation Project.   emergency spare parts,
equipment and floating craft
for the ports.
Credit 1436-GH                 Included essential technical     1984        Completed
Export Rehabilitation Technical  assistance to help prepare the
Assistance Project            ports project.
B. Project Timegabl
Planned Date          Revised or
Item                    Credit A/          Amended Date          Actual Date k/
Identification                                                                   05/84
Pre-Appraisal                        02/85         __canceled
Appraisal                            05/85                                       05/85
Negotiations                         11/85                                    01/21-24/86
Board Approval                       01/86         __03/27/86
Signature                    _    ___04/04/86
Effectiveness Date                                                              11/04/86
Closing Date                       03/31/92               3/31/92               03/31/93
Completion Date                   09/30/91 fl                                  06/30/93
a/ Source: Initiating Project Brief dated September 7, 1984.
b/ Source: Correspondence Files.
_l Source: Credit Agreement.



- 18 -
C. Credit Data
(i) Credit Disbursements
Disbursements (in US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year
and Quarter              Estimated                  Actual             Actual % of
Cumulative /            Cumulative _/              Estimated
1987    1                           0.5                     0                       0
2                          3.0                      3.2                   106
3                          3.5                      4.2                   120
4                          4.1                      4.8                   117
1988    1                           5.5                     5.9                   107
2                          7.6                      7.4                    97
3                          10.0                     9.6                    96
4                          12.1                    10.5                   105
1989    1                          14.7                     11.4                   78
2                          17.5                    12.4                    71
3                          19.0                    17.0                    89
4                          19.7                    19.2                    97
1990    1                          20.4                    22.2                   111
2                          21.1                    22.9                   109
3                         22.0                     24.2                   110
4                         23.8                     25.4                   107
1991    1                          23.5                    27.7                   118
2                         23.9                     28.2                   117
3                          24.1                    28.3                   117
4                          24.3                    28.3                   116
1992    1                          24.5                    28.3                   116
2                                                  28.3                   116
3                                                  28.7                   117
4                                                  28.8                   118
1993    1                                                  29.1                   119
2                                                  29.3                   120
3                                                  29.3                   120
4                                                  29.4                   120
b/ Source: Statements of Development Credits
c/ Source: Differential between actual and estimated disbursements attributed to currency variations between US dollar and SD'
in which credit was denominated






- 19 -
D. Proiect CoCts
(i) proiect Costs ^
(in USS million)
At Appraisal b/                       Actual c/
Category           Local      Foreign      Total          Local      Foreign        Total
A. Works
1. Port of Tema             3.24        20.14      23.38
2. Port of Takoradi          1.97       12.39      14.36      5.67 dy     35.29 d/     40.96 _/
3. Wreck Removal             001.75                  Q75                     2.37         2.37
5.21       34.89      40.10         5.67       37.66        43.33
B. Equipment
1. Port of Tema             0.10        17.47      17.57
2. Port of Takoradi          0.03       15.22      15.25           g/.4   45.00 d/     45.00 d/
0.13       32.69      32.82
C. Technical Assistance        0.52        1.55       2.07
D. Training Program            0.22        0.99       1.21
E. Project Supervision        39           1.19       1.58        .76 S/ 8.12 e/          8.88 e/
F. Repayment of PPF                        1.00       1.00            0         .78          .78
0. Import Taxes               17.01        -         17.01        17.01           0        17.01
TOTAL                     23.49        72.31      95.80        23.44       91.56       115.00
_./ Excluding taxes
_/ Source: SAR - Annex 3-5
q/ Source: GPHA (local and foreign currency breakdown reconstructed from GPHA data)
_/ Covers Port of Tema and Port Takoradi
_/ Figures include items C, D and E.
Notes: i) Credit was made in SDRs
Figures rounded
ii) Appraisal and actual costs are not strictly comparable because the latter, as noted in para. 34), includes
uimport taxes.



- 20 -
D. Project Costs (continued)
(ii) project Finan   a/
(in US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate             Actual
Local        Foreign           Total          Total _/
IDA                               3.00           21.50           24.50           28.84
Japan (OECF)                      -              29.20           29.20           45.00
Saudi Fund                        -              13.15           13.15            8.45
EDF                               1.20            7.43            8.63           10.94
GPHA                              2.28            1.03            3.31            4.76
Total                          648           723             78.79           2922
Gov. of Ghana b/                 17.01                           17.01           17.01
TOTAL                         23.49          72.31 1         95.80           115.00
A/ Source: SAR, page iii
h/ Loan to GPHA covering deferred payment of import taxes
c/ Source: GPHA
Notes: i) Credit was made in SDRs
Figures rounded
ii) Appraisal and actual costs are not strictly comparable because the latter are noted in Para. 34, includes
import taxes.



- 21 -
E. Results of the Project
E(i)
Port of Temna: Comparison of Forecasted and
Actual Throughput by Commodity (in 000 tons)
FORECAST  FORECAST  ACTUAL  ESTIMATE
IMPORTS                       1990            199S          1991           1992
Liquid Bulk                         900           1100          1092            866
Valcro                                -               -           45             60
Other dry bulk                        -               -          109            119
Grain                               100             100          408            381
Aluminum                            270            270           366            332
Cement clinker                      240            290           470            618
Transit                              10             100          n.a.           n.a.
General cargoes                     480            530           578            659
TOTAL IMPORTS                  2000            2390         3068           3035
EXPORTS                   FORECAST  FORECAST  ACTUAL  ESTIMATE
1990           1995           1991          1992
Liquid Bulk                         250             159          197            355
Aluminum                            100             110          177             79
Timber                              120             150            -            143
Cacao beans                         145             150           75             53
General Cargo                        80              90          129            186
TOTAL EXPORTS                   695             695          578             816
GRAND TOTAL                    2695            3085         3646            3851
VAR. ACTUAL                                                 + 18.2%        + 24.8%
FORECAST 1995
Source: GPHA data from Mission Bank Consultant.



- 22 -
Efii)
Port of Takoradi: Comparison of Actual to
Forecasted Cargo Throughputs fin 000 tons)
FORECAST  FORECAST  ACTUAL  ESTIMATE
IMPORTS                       1990           1995           1991          1992
Liquid Bulk                        100             120           92            107
Grain                               50              50           61             59
Cement Clinker                     200             200          324            495
General Cargo                       90             120           72             53
TOTAL IMPORTS                   440            490          549             714
EXPORTS                   FORECAST  FORECAST  ACTUAL  ESTIMATE
1990           1995           1991          1992
Liquid Bulk                                          -            -              4
Bauxite                            350             350          324            443
Manganese Ore                      400             450          320            298
Logs and timber                    280             300          281            260
Cocoa and products                 100             140          110            104
General Cargo                       30              40           55             53
TOTAL EXPORTS                  1160           1280          1090           1162
GRAND TOTAL                    1600           1770          1639           1876
VAR. ACTUAL                                                  -7.4%          -5.6%
FORECAST 1995
Source: GPHA data from Mission Report by Bank Consultant.



- 23 -
E(iii)
Ports of Tema and Takoradi
Comparison of Actual to Projected
Container Throughputs (in TEU containers)
TEMA                 FORECAST  FORECAST  ACTUAL  ESTIMATE
1990          1995          1991          1992
Loaded Cont.            35000         45000         37150         44128
Mt. Cont.               9800          10200         24874         29236
Total Cont.             44800         55200         62024         73364
TAKORADI             FORECAST   FORECAST    ACTUAL    ESTIMATE
1990          1995          1991          1992
Loaded Cont.            5000           10000         5462          5000
Mt. Cont.               2000           4200          3650          3200
Total Cont.             7000           14200         9112          8200
GRAND TOTAL           51800          69400         71,136       81,564



E(iv)
01W4 POR1 *43 HMOLR3 MAUrOF
94M STATEftTS 1905- #
lS                     iN                      19ui7                  1967                     iNs                    iNs
TIkirid    Tm    Tolnt  Tdtwrd  TeNm    Tdot  * Tdia        Ten   Told  Tdcrd  Ten    Tol    Tdkomd  Twn    Toe   Tdak td Tana   Tldn
Vws.1 SerA*
FPkorW dTup                           117    S32    41t        14.4   481    6ZS       11.7   82   44.9   a65   15ot   2117           17    94.2  4(1    1112   20c9    927.2
B.wodwskv                              57.3   2a4   2s7    129.7  21S1   044.6    611  216.6  2717    4791   a.5  1316.6    6S.0  225.3 294.3   624.2  1442.7  1966.9
%Ww wWGun*y                            1.0     Z0      to       e19    6. I     0       1.0 o   0    a0       61    16.3   224         1.0     Zo    ao      21.C    uS5    61.
Vesed F.c1k
Ui*iIDune                               ao0   165    IlS         5S    220    27.2       a1o   19.5   is.     219      7.6    91.7      eo    its   19.5    S4.9   C4.9  I1.1
bt.bo, R.r4ndht orn                    12.7    431    516       137    24.6   4a3       1I7   419   sa6       74.7  1295   204.2    IS7    46.9  6O6          s3a   225.5  319.8
O.nmftldDies                            213   10Ls   131.S       1o    2U6 S ga6         Z2  1112  144.4       64.6  291s   46al       311   121.0  156.1      4.9S  9665.   9114
Chip Servis:
Ught  g.                              3ses      a10   gas       14.9    o10    14.9    232    eo    12        sa6      a 0    S         sa o    9      569  (0   S9    3A4.7  S74.7
sSho#4wW&                              712   2615   *37.7       764   1612   241.6    6ao  261.1  S44.1    894.0  64(2  1011.0         90.3   291.4  SM1.7   S74.    912S  136.1
Y&*Aa  Des                            V27.3  9S7   12110        Ss6   26S   7274        312  126S  15117    246.49   32   5921         94.2  107.4  141.6   a816   5467   9295
9ois9*0_s 'hwil"9    97.6  IOI.S                                 1.1    5S6    56S       a9   97.6  101.5     115   2591   27m6         39    97.6  101.6    6SS    734.9  77M
SnU.y Chw9.                                                      6.7   16.2              110    10             14.4   45.7              110o    110           1t5    60t
&wnmkyInoon.                            11.0   laO    29.0        1o     110    11o      12I0 1a0   Sa0         11o     1O    C1O       110    19.0  a10        1o      1o1     co 
TOTAL                                 257.7  694.3  1152.0    s17   804.5  110.3   2Bao   6S  1209.6  138.3 2in.0  4229.2    3013   964.3 2731.  2015.0  6133.9  71174
TRWF t4NaEsE
TOTAL REVDILES                         257.7  894.3  1152.0    3217   904.6  110.2   2U10  83S 1209.6  1390.8  299.0  4Z2.2   SOL  964.8 2 IM.1   2015.0  61839  7117.4
-- -- -- -- -- - --- -- -- -
P.n, Cogs                              ISZ2   9#6.S  549.1    al1   5191  1171.2   169.5  3".4  5639   1290.0  16I1.4  9102.2    1526   I3Il 521.7  1645.0  2073.3  211.3
Fud. PFwr nd %Ww                        1l13    24.0   34.3    145   1062   12117        1Q1   24.0  tS. 6       4.5  219.4   2sa9      11.5    25.4  269      914  l16O    256.4
lt..no.ndtKi                             3ao    426    756       2e65    39A    597      554   61.6  117.2   107.S   59.2  167.1        612    Sa2  S1.4   1012   2970   405.2
O phe OP."qCo.a                         11.4    21.7    al       17      16     13      120   2ns5  34.5       12      1.6    1.S    126    230   38.6    Iao    a30    lao
Atnkikr.6v*. tp.rue                     16.3    212    545       11.1    292    403      16.3   s2   54S        31.5   3ao    64.5    16.3    a2   54.5    477    750   1217
D.d -ndDMkjOtIs                          54    S19      24.3     13.2    1.5   14.7       6.0   208   26.0     27.6  1761   20a9         6.5    2n6   211    34.9   V s2   65aI
WInhtCode               266   5023   77S9   7122   697.7  14099    27.0  614.5  91.5  1522.7  2300.7  2623.4   297.7   s31.  629.2  2209.2  2964.5  6173.7
DspfOchionanUdMan.41on                 121.2   269.   391.3      11.4   27.1    615    1314  271  4100         316   105.6  143    14(S   2M.5  451O    2026   32.a  527.6
7OCA C'LT N1i3 COST                   ass6o  M7 O  1161.9   72a60  724.30  1448.4  42140 7S110 1211.  1562.50 2406.20  s9667   44(20  833oo0 I0 .2  2411.70 2269.60  670.6
NeCi O.ldhgfRtwnuw>                  -13210  12220  -190  -99S.90   72.70-34310 -14a40 141.53 -1.90 -17120  49O160  26e5   -137.40  131.20 -110  -2891710 1694.10 1415.90
_n- Op-dbgR.r-_weelf)                   6.S0   1120    17.0    se4  253w    8314         114   16   210        3so   -36    31.4         10    I110   610    1912   3917   593O
t.Cplorml en.                            11      110    110o     11o    110    110       11o   110   11o        11o    110      1o       11o     110   1o       Q0     1o1      10
Lmni.twom                                6s      72    las    19        4.4    183      41.1  44.5   65.6      11o     7.9    7.9   1O0.    1235   3o0         10      6.4     64
Nei koom4.o.) elrmbltw              -131.6   1252   -14   -2a64          a3  -58,   -174.1  1116 -61.5  -137.2   431.2  204.0  -2314.9    25.8-2081   -214  zIa7.4  2002.5
sigrakernt Rao
-__------------
rhkb_go                                  1.0     1s      a17      22     119    1.3       1.0   11     17       1.1    116       1       1 .o    11    17       1.1    1s      117
opC _ti1frgb                             1.5     19      1.0      12     1s      1.3      1.5    as    1.0      1.1    116       s       1.4     OLD   1.0      1.2    116     118
Tlnee kIwod  _wod by
eA .".Mhbg A                          -21.0    17.0  -117       -7.1   1R    -1a7    -I&6    Al  -1o          -4.9 -1369      3ao   -11.4       7.2  -1o    -11       4.7  221.2
Th_ DOM SW%*. CtWod by
CmhO . idIwuope _lons                                   2e12                     11o                   4.8                     61.4                    1.3                     oa07
R.een on No Fhd Am.b In Lb()                                                                                                    17                                              as
Aooewls R9cd%bWCpwvdtr Rs.r(S)                                                 126.5                                           sao                                             67.5



E (iv)                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04010f  "TS2 AND 141*6U011202 OW
VICOUG SIA?1M7N26 I62-03
F..g~~~~.sI ~~Ac2.,AcedF.m6IActd"76                                                                                                                                     Acmil
ltobeudT& ..     od   1.b.d    Isms   idi   ?dinud  Temm  laK IA'""iko    'aws,  T.ow    Tab""i lws   item   Iduied  lamme   voOd   Idues   I.s.O    1d     Td.id   1mA                           lowd
7264 VW 'FOP                     IS.?   28.1    416s    164.1  M60.    366         IL?    Sol      406    266.4  4647    60.2         1t.,  *02    60.6    2446   all.,   02.16       1.7    26.1   62.4        12"       MA.   2240.0
2Ndu 2g                          74.8   141.2   360      4566.  24411.4  M10&*     80.6  24oo    224   f002.0 242.0  424)6            80.4  21064  227.0  121660  20667.  634.7    26.4   361.2  547.1   26011    60061    06263
WON5s"WOm7                         .s    tI       10      61.6   Ill.6  226.4       0.6    2.2      Is6    21.6  2it1    1371          10      2.6     t0     21.0  226.4   MA2        2.0      .6   326        21.4    l&0        224.2
LIVO Dma                  0.0~~~~~~~W    10.6   20.6  452   142i1267.4     0.0    62       32.5    61.2  261.    24.                 VIA32   22.      26.I2  214  211 MA        .t.   Its4   6.4        NO1     3602      MIA.
#4e.bemftmdwsdWg.s2,g    2~~4.6    4.6.  We6      021   1610.   2612       24.6.0 m.A4.    I26.   33413   36.6                I4ts    02.?    2.1   220.6   4122.   624.4    14.6     0.7   617.2    246.6       614.2    6242
Gw. dPm  Dow.                 012I  1220.   16.        42.6  721.   7661       42.6  167.6   la"3         t.o  126     12171       42.6  1AILS   16.41    11.1  2461.  "me1         "A.   141.4  *16.2       44.6    one1  2616.6
Luguawgs             010      6.6   26~~~~~~~~~8.0  .04  6.0  426.6    40.0    6.6    40.0,  26.?    0.0   1216.7         40.61    0.6   406   2800.       t.6   20.7    261       0.6   26.6    247.4         so     247.4
6*0m6,*eg                602~~~~~~e  6.2   406   612.2   MIll  26        206A   2217    416   2626.4  22014   4666.          2127   22.4   46. 1   1212.7  25206  27617.3   21614   804.2  420.7   2062.        3232.2   46215 
wIssb,. DUNs                      27.   1261   162.2    6M6.   622.4  1366.6    42.6  222.0   266.6   722   2664.j  2626.             42.6  227.  2in.6   620.    66  60.6    42.6   122.7   17.6.   l667.7                 o0    son.?
20m0 C2sm,.                        to    iOA   *02.        466    6041   267.       2.0   07.6   202.6   202.  2lo0.11  22141           2.0   67 6   202.6   637.6  742.1  12276.       2.6    67.6  261.       231.4   1201.6   Ian16
Sr.MyCIwg..              ~~~     ~~~~06  00       12.0  236.4               00     00                6.0  262.6                60.     0.0            64.   443.2              0.0      0.6             0W0        0.6
14.0   20.0   24.6        0.6    0.6    0.6    26.0   22.0    26.0    47.7    0.0    47.7            12.0   22.0   200        60     0.6    0.6       lL 22.0 626    2.6    20116      804.0    1222 6
IOTAL                            8022  1004.4  2227.    26136.2  7462.4  61002    26221  20442   24W7.)  226.5 1222.2  24264.0    274.6  207.2  2420.2  46722 11262. 262614.6   262A    1261.  2460.    0IN.1   I6076.    2122602
lAWF6P60A2                       3-0   76.4  100.4                                 642   26669   211.1                                 26.4  264.6  266.) 63                                          3619        0.0      00        0.0     -
TOTAL PIEIEU                    3541  10706  1426.0                     6776.     4262  1206.1   216A4                    241604.6    474.32 N. 26112634.5                 266644.6    M&6   2400.  2662.    621    26076.0  21260.2    W
P.M.wsMwC4,64m                   2M2.   226.   627.6    636 I22A22  24766    2 760   232.    622.2   20666  212610   2226A            276.0  224.0   226 I 226643  22172  2 U67.4    1626       MA6  620.2       M       soil2 022  46476
Vad Ps.dW   deN                   22.2   20.0      a6      all   "is6    me1    I26    "5           266    246.6  324.6   44046        226    27.0    me6   22261  46.7  M806          22.6    27.    266        2004     722.6   I0202
1.1,4mwsWAsUd.I141               160.    670  2177.0    2420   277I  '274    1262i  22613    3026 a         2722   30:2    72404        I 227.0   261     212  22   2672  22it72    I2722    2222 t2642    16727    20667    2762.4
OthOpete"A"I,             23.2   " 23.      26     2?0     St    726       1369   2421    37 1      2"2    2060    402         2)7i   246a    MI2      10    4660  lost        227      2  346  26       712       30)     2 03 4
ASkub.bb6o,xp7w6s                 262  23 58 4.6           046    460a 11 a22       262    262      241    2262   1346    2 74.2       26.    2632    242S    I"?7  2"2t   A2i2         202     22    146 I      2262     2663      627.6
Steel 0d DeqD0.6                   71F   24.4   32.4    104.6   ales  1217.2         1.1   26 2     236    225   223.  -4626            a6    273    3223   4002   2066   o22.?         62      21.7   27.0    666        6472    Ust2.
36.6   6416   266.      276A  21801   46.2 AMA    61   612.6   676.2  2602.  3224.0  207.6           36.2   646.2  2034.5  24.270  4226.8  OK66.   431.6   66.6  2074.6   47214    2676.2   1226.0
0.p.wcbln  WAusAMMa              207.   20419   40         2607   642.   226.      2601   322.6   472.6    M4.4   02111    2767.7      260.6  3211.   O7LD   1222.2  0216  3606        l01     224A   471A    12220.2    700.       2626
I0IALOPINAT64COIT               426.3  004111 1327.2          e 222.0 0.30  6262.   526.00  626.20. 2422.1  2626.2  4226.60   2666.  6416o 021.76  2606.  2747.00 60210.60  0726.   66.2   66276  2262.   60212    766.60   220
"MdPm Opurk.6m.41..            -20160  M2.40   220.    21330 23126 8426.20  -112.70  271.00  .43.60   2.0 1   12713  707160    -74.60  402.6 -26.26  1222510 627.2  7266.00  -26.2    426.260 -02.26   -622.6   6464.00   766220
tin. 2296622wse42.64              I  i4    26.0   20.6    642.2   62.19  627.2    2MD    I60         26.0   420.6  .2401    95.0        22.6   26.6   20.0   3766   4M60.   M60         its      1W.    30.6       00        06       60.
F,g, b.s  mom         .            6.      0.0    0.6    -766       01 -6 0.          6      6.0      6 .0  0.0  0.0  0.0                10 t  a  0.0    0.0     06      . 0.0 6. .6             6.6    6.  2.0    2       260.6VIO  26724
Leee.bDAO                        161.6  206.    ~SK          0.6    0.0    0.6      M  26. 042.0   4322.      o6      16       0.6     2642   237.2  432.6       0.6    6.6     6f    276.    224.6  402.          61        00       t6
M" b.awojqLOe9 a uikws          -226.4    42.3 -227.1      266.6  4231.2  43412.  :*6061    64.2  -442.6   2606L7  722.1  64a7       -25667   262.2  -736   2491.4  707.  "M.Y.  -2401    211.4  -26.2   -36.6   202146    6666
WO^tA~~~ %db              6.  .6 14       1        0.7    6.4      as6      A1    6.6       11       0.6     to      169       2.6    t0       6.7      06     0.4    6.4       2.2     0.6    417       66        6.4       01
DP.." adb                 1~~.4    6L1    21.      w0      60      10.7    21.    6.0       IA       ay?   6.4       as        2.6    0L0      2.0     06      1.4    6.0       1A      910    21.        21      6as        0.0
16.4. hftogged mad by
"Ms Opewr6gelpesweeA              -0A    22.7     as        as6    53      6.7    -61      154    -to2        2.7    4.2    14.1        416   20.4   -.I        to0    MA4      U      -7.2  . 63.    -61         6.        1         OLD
TIwiee Dows. UwhC~".e by
CeS.b0weemmdoompummerm                            2.6                      *.e                       2.0                      g.e                       1.2                    50                        21.                         6.S
F.Sem Am No nodDsA.ASA   tloqq                   6.26                      US                       6.06                     6.76                     60 co.041                                        6.06
A-Asss Reemebblaftpeemue R.s----s                26.0                      67.6                     51.11                    6121                      600                     MA.                      26.6                         47.6
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



E Cv)
79HA)0 FOAT 470 I1120JS AJTH1060
Is"0                         2094157                                                   1900                          to"6                        I05lS"                                                     low
T~.k.     1.23      T.40     70k.2.     1*.      T.W      7.52.3    16        T   T~         " T. -~. ..    .3 T.W     &.d    T..3       T002     T".0..3    I        T.W      T00.2.     765      T.W      Tk0.2.,   T-n       Th5
ASSE29 OMURDED
7966*6p21454I 46361216W.6    261.3                                       372        31                        23200    3520.       602       1620.                       24430     27687,   toiz      30616                        io7A     66306a      0=      low 866
An.4.hd4q31).6.2                                    6250MU04GM  444      223 7     253                         021         6.      21469    290.3                         05636     3401       M 50    79713                        65210    1203       WIT?    22040
mm S.-&  d-               ~00a      60 a   44640      22.7    206         070.2     0A0               45220      233.7    377.3    022.0                        36080    1521       13201   2008                          608       50120    22446    6338
30s8002 ft.o6                                        450.0                                                      6066                                                      12080d                                                    1110
OW4(lOldDf                                             30.0     la,s      36.6      40.3                         30,0      177       so6      766'                          3600      6                  473                          30.6     la's      30.       40as
6.13050                                6~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~~~1486  2330  362  6210             tw44       2314     423        m 600                       72300    isms6    2014    23053                           75020    53050     27T4     640082
66.006                                  ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~236  40.3  et.0  230 3                         AG6.0 665  2.6    332.                          200      2M'S    511.1    634 4                            230.0    402.4    4040      6104 
0.3.0.0000.              4000      6233         s    23005                          4~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~      ~~~~240  4300  00o.  2420.4  422.0   I371  25113    40013                      300.6   16646    37006    63046
C.A-d2 .56.06b.                                      3.441      331      2044      2400                         ass.       20is6    1256     24421                         4056      42.6     264.7    2206                         023.      1613      2211    41224
629a     503.7    I061I    2070                           6252      500.2    13406    20040                          6270    20302.   32012    40IS                             03    2327.0    4412    60326
(2JF2NT L006U280
22.325                                                12226    2293      175.      30501                        t60.0    I202      34.         0                            720     3226:    307.A      BO6                          25.40    2352o    0436     6T76
Il.dU. T.. L-.n                                      210       25240               22                           206022                        222.                         300   0             2620     1262                        3200        6       265      3205
T..0oo                                                 0.0        3        0.        530                                    56       00                                      0         06       06       006g0o0                                                    .
5030     2076      2247      32268                        460a    12206      4000     3076                           472.6    32120     6302      702.6                       '0.0      233a    602.0       MN
NO( CUJA012A4ST                  4911                  603     2956      6100    22542                          442 7     420.3    6006    2507.2                          455 6    2637 4    25426    42004                         442 3    3254    3706.2    003om5
NET TOTALASOETh                                     3041.2    820.      2215009   26767                        Se22.7     6727    1326.0    20087                         75656    3083    30624    723"7                           75113    70110    05267   144.22.7
ODEfEDUA0LJl5(lE                                       06   -I2I4.    -6D80   -2222.0                             0.0  -20002   -2624.6  -33002                              060  -75020   -2623S   -6003                              6 0   -26637   -22164   -4106.1
642(0-062JPOALAN6ES                                    0.0    -66.7    -67.4   -267,2                             00a    25A.   242.0    2304                               00  -2205.6    14602    -27317                            0 0   -60303    26086   -36011.3
2TaAL NET L20012J2E                                  64121   -658         04.5   -60_0                         5022.17    -73&2    3300   -20alk2                         75616   -637.2   27062       260,6                        76323    -6420    72283    6473
P.30o.d E.o0206..n-.5202    -6387?                                        043    -6022                         44727    -7353      5s0.0   -2603                          47601   -63103    2768       20686                        423762    _8o22    2220.30   647821
0 0      00    5370.2   -6513         04.5   -002.0       60               45087    -7342      0366    -2002                         4940    -657.2    27982    2600                           4.53    -0420    72283    0077.3
L.q2-062.4L-.                                        272.0                           .0       5.6              122020       6.0      A   0.0    0                  6.6   27456        6.6      0.6       0.0                        52710       6a        6.f      es
TOWU.006                            00        0.0   50412    -65n6        04.    -01.0                          "it?7  -7342        536.    -262                   o.f   73686   -632.2   37982    26020                           76323    -041.6    22280    64,71.
64 ~ ~  ~   ~   ~ ~   -  --   - -  -  -  - -  -  - --   -  - -  -  - -   -  --  -  -  - - -   -  -      -  -- -  -  -  - -   - - --   -  - -   -  - -  -  -  -- -   -  - -  -  - -  --  -  -  -  -  - -  -  - --  -  -  - -   -  - -  --  - -  -  -  - -  -  -
D4002(yi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~0.00                      6.66     6.66      0.60                          026      0.60      a.00      0.00                         637      0.6      6a"        6.8                          6.70      660       2        6.030



E (v)
*HANAPOATS AM) Hmmoms AuTHoRrrY
Bajm  Shusia 1o6-U2
Fmd                         A                            Fckl                        Aotz                         Fot                         Adtl
logo                        1o90                         191                         loc1                         ∂92                         19ow
TraI.    Tm        TOWl    Takogl   Ten         Tla Tai.ga    TTM Tota               Takwi    Twin    TOTW Takoram    Tol TTal    Takor     Tm                    TOWl
ASSETS EWDOV
------__-___-
FUtE ASSET8
_____________
Omm dqx*h met                                     1406U4    6010.1   0124.5  14134.0                       14054.0  12600.4   91905   21tea6                        151540   321170   21260.0  53377.0
DomffmhId dpmkton                                  80730    1056.7   2050.0   305.7                         9445.0   320868   2974.4   0183.2                        W22.0    151.0   6404.0  15045.0
NodBook%ki                                         5061.0   8073A    4065.5  101385                         5509.0   9400.6 e   22s.1  15715.7                       5232.0  220660   1470.0  377s2n
WoVanPr*W_                                          SOO                                                      100oo                                                     50.0     OD        OD
9WESTMENTS                                           35s       1^6      30       45A                         35.0      103      30.3      40A                         35.0     20D       405      60.0
sLbw                                               e61601   e02.0   4005.5  10167.5                         5644.   0e005e   B255A   15756.3                         5317D   22e665   140606   3772.D
OURRE ASSET
SWIat                                               130A    14506      612.5   2263.3                        150.0   1636.0   1530      330a6.                        277A    1057.    1043.0   3OOD
Receklee                                            4065    2S11.1   0160.0   9100.1                         307.0   3W69.    4794.0    76S5                          370D    2045.0   7210.0  10164.0
Ouh wvii*b.tarm                                     410.7    135.4    669e      725.0                        436A      16e5     4472     565.7                        160o      1065      7e0     164.0
961.7   4407.3   7501.1  12066.4                         9555    5047s    677.0  127195                           6275    470. 0    240.0  139465
CWFfERT WLvULME
_________________
c,cs                                               160.0   2166.1    514S    20605                          200.    1524A    25930    4118.3                         2505    11040    1766.    296O0
Me*,n TeM L                                         3356n      0D        0         0.0                       30950 0se            05 0o     o                         2600        OD      0o       0 I0
T Vnlon                                               05       05        0.0       0.0                         05        0.0 0oD            0.0                         0.0 0on            0.0      0 D
5150    2106.1    5145    26600                          6095    1524.4   2503a    411SS                          510.0   1104.0   17660   2060.0
NFTCUtENT ASSETS                                    436.7   23312    707.3   9407s                           440e    4423.1   4178.1   6o12                           317A    35105    7464.0  10970D
NETTOTAL ASSETS                                    6052.7    U23.2   111712   19505D                        6090.6  13033.0  104335   243655                         5634J   250025   22200e   467625
DEFUMAD UABUIIES                                      00       0D   -27e6.7  -2788.7                           OD        0.0      0.0      0D                          0D        0D       OD       0D
____________________
NTER-GROOP BALANCES                                  0D   -747s5   0057.3  -14302                            O  -11561.7  110651    -510.7                            OD  -272575  -11031D  -391685
TOTAL NET LABIuTIES                                652.7    035.7  14440A   15376A1                         6095    23713   214845   23 A655                         56345    -7565   103205    9674D
RB'AESENTED BY:
ampiw                                                76.0       1.2      0o        1.2                        785        1.2      05        1.2                        75         3aD   05          35
R.Akd Ewr*i g                                      3202.7    0345   14440.4  153745                         2507.6   2370.1  214845   23654A                         24415   -756D   103200    95715
------------------------------                           ----------------------------- -----------------------
3370.7    035.7  14440.4  15370.1                        267S5    23713   214845   2366J5                         25195    -7555   1032.0   95745
Lorg-tumLoe                                        35s2D 5       D0     0D       0o                        34150        00       OA        OD                       311i5        O        0on     0o
Tota LLaa                                          G952.7    035.7  14440A   15376.1                         0905o   2371.3  214845   236556                         5034.   -7655   103290    95745
Cumt RaMo                                            1J       2.1      14.7       45                          19        35       2J        3.1                          1J A     S        52       4.7
L4ukft l W*                                           1.0      25       135        42                          1D       3S        2.4      3S                           1.3       35       5.1     4*
DebtXqa*y                                            ISO       050     0.00      000                         126       00J      0.00       5D0                         124      050      05D0      OO



E(vi)
GHAN PORTS AND HAMMROUlS AUThORlY
Soisce and ApnOedlon of Fand  cedis mcons)
Forecast                  Atual                    Porc                      Actual                   Forecat                    Actual
1986                     1986                      1987                     1987                      1988                      198S
Takoradi Tcma  Total Takoradi Tema   Total   Takoradi  Tema  Total Takoradi  Tema   Total  Takoradi Tema   Total Takoradi Tema   Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Geeration o Funds
NelOpecalingRevenuel(loss)    -1321   122.2  -9.9   -399.9    79.7  -343.1   -143.4  141.5  -1.9   -1722    492.8   260.5   -137.4   131.3  -6.1   -396.7  1894.1  1415.9
Depreciation and Amrtization    121.2  269.8  391.0      11.4    27.1    38.5    139.4  270.6  410.0        39.8   105.5   145.3    148.5   301.5  450.0    202.5   325.3   527.8
Non-OperatingRevenue(net)         6.8   10.2   17.0      50.4   253.0   303.4       10.4   15.6   26.0      35.0   -3.6    31.4        12.0    18.0   30.0    1933    399.7   593.0
Total                          -4.1  402.2  398.1   -338.1   359.8   -1.2          6.4  427.7  434.1   -97.4   594.7   437.2         23.1   450.8  473.9    -0.9  2619.1  2536.7
Borrowinsa
Proposed IDW Credit              31.0   37.0   68.0                                223.0  174.0  397.0                                216.0   275.0  491.0
DECF - Japan                     96.0  107.0  203.0                                168.0  156.0  324.0                                255.0   222.0  477.0
Saudi Fund                                                                                 174.0  174.0                                        334.0  334.0
EEC                                                                                 95.0           95.0                               182.0           182.0
Governmcnt Loan                  34.0   38.0   72.0                                102.0  110.0  212.0                                204.0   184.0  388.0
Total                         161.0  182.0  343.0                                588.0  614.0 1202.0                                857.0  1015.0 1872.0
t-I
Total Fundo availabk          156.9  584.2  741.1   -338.1   359.8   -1.2        594.4  1041.7 1636.1   -97.4   594.7   437.2    880.1  1465.8 2345.9    -0.9  2619.1  2536.7
APPU(CAlON OP FUNDS
Proposed Project                160.0  182.0  342.0                                604.0  635.0 1239D0       0.0   317.9   317.9    889.0  1054.0 1943.0         0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Invetmcntr
Debt Service Ctarges:
Interest                         6.3    7.2   13.5       13.9      4.4    18.3      41.1   44.5   85.6       0.0     7.9      7.9    109.5   123.5  233D         0.0     6.4     6.4
Repayment
Increasc/lDccrase In Working
Capital Excluding Cash                         200.0                        0.0                   200D                       148.7                   220.0                     2437D0
Toald FPndt Applied                         555.5      13.9      4.4    18.3    645.1  679.5 1524.6                       474.5                   2396D0                     24414
Cash SurpLa (deficit for the year)             185.7                                              111.    -16.5   -20.8   -37.3                      -50.2      233    69.1    92.4
Cash at bcgining of the yeaw                   158.4                                              344.2     35.2   104.    140.0                     455.7      IA6   125.6   144.2
Cash at ihe end of tbe Year                   344.2                                               455.7     18.7   125.6   144.3                     405.6      41.9   194.7   236.6



E (vi)                     .N                                                                                         OU"HIV
Fenascaen.l                                               Fg.scai AAtsa                                                F-t.l                       Aa-l                              .Actaul
196                          1*9                          1910                          1990                           11                          11                            1991                            192
T.koudl T.-_  TT.g1  Takandl   T..    Toul   T.kac                    T.      Teb1    Td oUl  Tkt.t   Total    T_k.ndI   Tom               Toel   TakoA  Tm.   Toba1  T.kmdI  Tom                    Tol   Tskm*A    T.=             T96.I
bssa1 0      nor    d Fin
WdO.1   oIhaks       B )              -I0CU      229.4   12I.9        133)   3633.1   34182    -1107    27no          167.3    109L2   7173.12    707U        -743    4021       3280     1122.      77    7165.0    -45.1        421U    -41.      -S115        494.0      7482
D.p..hekod Ameelalods                   157.1   3049    46e0         7M7    442.1   u2ns          201      311.)     472e       9084    U1.3    1787.7         I40      3113    472.0    1313.2    9153   22103         14Q-2     324.0    477.0      1201        70.4       19316
N-~ot..hg R.onlt        (Vt)            12Q       2.0      300       241.1    480       977.1      12.0     18.       30.       412.      4ML      359.0       I22       20.      30.0     374.9    40.       09        I220       2.       30.0         .0         0o          0.0
Tetal                                   04       2L3    *12t9    21t2.   49t1.2  S7381           61A    407.5        e9.)    2415.1  420       1022#3         900    72.0       MO0.0   2 A11        2.9 2 1517)       I9.      151.1    44S.2       410.       904        tll7
F.opo.d lO    Co.                        82.0    112.0   199.0                                     39.      34.0      95.0
DE200- J1                               124.0    113.0    2410
sa.odFod                                         229.0   229.0                                              73.0       71.0
EEC                                     45.0               41.0                                    390                390
Go.s            L_                      f2s.      73.0    2400                                      9.0     170       2Z40
Taal                                  341.0    4129     70U                                     n8.0    144.        223.0
Tr.e.IPo .ihbb                        4012    9713)  1312.        215J   49142   S718.          148.0   733.J       923    241S.1   8203.0   20215.           96o    712.      800      2821     799  I2U721           "        751.1    445.2       4122      90.4        96147
APPUlCATON KO FUNDS
FPspd pr*d                              3540    4470    740          212.    41SO9   4375J         93.     14.0       249.0    31        3127.6    5403.9                                   6338  11749A  12402.
Ot.,           to .                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.O      2n.                       40         0
hI...                                 121.9    3420      340           GA       0. a       0o   129L2    241.9       432.        0.0      0.0       0A        394.2    237.3   431.5         8        8.0      0.0     37.17      224.9    401A                      .0         GA
kgmyi                                                                                                                                                          S2A       14.1    1627                                  135.0      I"47    29.7            8         Le          U
lmaseai.c__aaohk WeAm                                                                                                 23U.0
COpkal EAchdb8                                            30k 20.                      124.                                                       442.1                          210.0                     -30.0                           200.                                  U
rT.MkdAMpJb                                            134.0                        S532.3                          911.0                       9913.8                           02                         30.S                         2002.                                0.0
Cm& "Ws (&1k4fkc4kt.dwnr)                                  n9.7      149.4      344    171.0                          -0.8     -53.9      484      3122                            219     -214.   -142.3  -159.2                           24.       -28.         tlA         187   L
CAA at bl.$         sdlgmb. -                             4111A        41.9    4K7    234.                            42U3.     292.3    221.1     424                            41.7      135.4   389.)    724.9                          438A6      133.4       7249       80
COsb St* db*   ... .Y.,                                   425.)      292.3    221.1    412.4                          416.7     133.4   59.        724.9                         43.         28S.)   447.2 102.7                          M2.8         100.7      10013       717.0



- 24 -
F. Use of Bank Resources
(i) Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks
Stage of Project Cycle           Einal
Through Appraisal                 88.8
Appraisal through Board Approval    43.6
Supervision                      107.6
Other
TOTAL                         240.
Source: Summary of CAM Lending Operations.



- 25 -
F. Use of Bank ResQurc  (continued)
(ii) Mission Data
Stage of                       No. of        Days in      Specialization   Performance       Date of
Project Cycle    Month/Year      Persons        Field       Represented /    Rating Status      Reports
Identification        05/84           3             12       PE, eC, PA              -           06105/84
Preparation 1         07/84           1             4        PE                      -          10/12/84 b/
Preparation 2         07/84           1             6        PE                      -            10/12/84
Appraisal             05/85           4             17       PE, EC, FA              -          06/27/85 j/
Post-Appraisal        10/85           2             10       PE, FA                  -            10/25/85
Supervision 1         3-4/86          3             na       PE, EC, FA           1,2,1,2        05/28/86
Supervision 2        10-11186         3             13       PE, EC, PA           1,1,1,1        01/06/87
Supervision 3         04/87           2             20       PE, FA               1,1,1,1        05/05/87
Supervision 4         09/87           2             17       PE, FA               2,1,1,1         10/30/87
Supervision 5         01/88           1             6        PE                   2,1,1,1        02/05/88
Supervision 6         02/88           1             2        FA                   2,1,1,1        03/23/88
Supervision 7         06/88           2             6        FA, EC                              07/22/88
Supervision 8         01/89           1             9        2 PE(C), FA          _,1,1,1         03/10/89
Supervision 9         06/89           2             na        EC, DC                     _      07/28/89 d/
Supervision 10        10/89           1             8        PE, FA              1,1,2,1,1        12/04/89
Supervision 11        03/90           1             7         PE                 1,1,2,1,1        04/02/90
Supervision 12        11/90           2             5        PE, FA              1,1,2,1,1        11/21/90
Supervision 13        04/91           1             na       EC                                  06/24/91
Supervision 14        07/91           1             na       EC                  1,1,2,1,1       07/18/91
Supervision 15        12/91           2             na       EC, FA              1,1,12,1,1       01/21/92
Supervision 16        02192           1             1        PE                                   04115/92
Supervision 17        07/92           1             na        EC                                  09/08/92
Supervision 18        12192           1             10        C                                   01/31/93
n/ PE = Ports Engineer
EC = Economist
FA = Financial Analyst
DC = Division Chief
PA = Procurement Advisor
C = Consultant
b/ Meeting in Consultant's European office.
g/ Combined Issues Paper/Decision Memorandum dated June 27, 1985.
d/ Lter to GPHA; no report on file.



- 26 -
G. Comvliance with Credit and Proiect Aereement Covenants
Section                                  Description of Covenant                             Status
Credit Agreement
3.01 (b)                 Relending clause                                                             met
4.01 (a)                 Mor ta 20% of ports' and stevedoring companies' fomign currncy eaMing        mcd
will be retained to cover maintenance and rehabilitation cost.
4. 01(b)(i)              The Borrower and Association will review the percentage of retention in and  met
decide on a proper percentage.
4.02(a)                  The Borrower shall cause to be incorporated a limited liability company to   met
handle containers at Tema Port.
4.02(b)(i)               The Borrower shall permit private stevedoring firms to maintain until        met
December 31, 1989 at least 25% of stevedoring operations at Tema and
Takoradi,
4.02(b)(ii)              The Borrower shall carry out a study of ways to increase private sector      met
participation in port handling operations.
4.02(b)(iii)             The Borrower shaU propose a plan providing for an increase in private sector  mdt
participation in cargo handling operation.
4.02(b)(iv)              Thc Borrower shall commence the implementation of said plan.                not met
4.03                     The agreement to defer the payment of import duties on project goods.        met
4.04                     The Borrower shall assist GPHA (A) in carrying out the customs and port    A - met
documentation study (B) in preparing the program for carrying out the      B - met
recommendations and finding of said study.
4.05                     Thc directors of Tema and Takoradi are to be giver autonomy in order to      met
administrate their ports on sound commercial lincs.
Project Agreement
2.02                     Establish a project coordinating unit (PCU).                                 met
2.03(a)(i)               Assign capable Ghanaian counterparts to work with all the consultants to be  partiaUy met
employed.
2.03(a)(ii)              Shall at least six months before the end of employment of the consultant,    met
appoint capable Ghanaians to assume the responsibility of said position
2.03(b)                  GPHA shall prepare and fumish the Association the terms of reference of a    met
container operation expert who shall be employed and assigned to the new
container handling company.
2.04                     Follow IDA procurement guidelines,                                           met
2.07(a)                  GPHA shall exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress   mdt
of the project, the performance of its obligation under the agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters rel Lrg to the purposes of the
Credit.
2.07(b)                  GPHA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which             t
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progrs of the project, the
accomplishment of the purpose of the Credit, or the performance by GPHA of
its obligations under this agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.



- 27 -
3.01                     GPHA shall prepare and carry out an action plan utisfactory to the           met
Association to strengthen its port management and improve its port
operations.
3.02                     GPHA shall at all times opemte and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment   generally met
and other property
3.03                     GPHA shall take out and maintain insurance with responsible insurer.         met
3.04(i)                  GPHA shall carry out and complete the report of a study on customs and port  met
documentation.
3.04(u)                  GPHA shall prepare a program for carrying out the study's recommendations    met
and findings.
3.04(iii)                GPHA shall carry out such parts of the program as related to GPA             met
4.0(a)                   GPHA shall maintain separate records and accounts adequate to reflect its    met
operations and financial condition.
4.01(b)(i)               GPHA shall have the accounts and financial statements and the special account  met
audited by independent auditors.
4.01(b)(ii)              Furnish to IDA not later than five months after the end of each year certified  met
copies of the statements and the auditor's reports.
4.02                     GPHA shall adjust its rates to generate revenues to cover its expenditures.  met
4.05                     GPHA shall not renew any debts other than to finance the costs of the project.  met



- 23 -
H (i)
RZVALUATION OF THE ECONOMIC RATE OF RETUR  1/
1.   Based on the actual traffic (throughput) handled by
the ports of Tema and Takoradi in 1991 and 1992, the
projected Economic Rate of Return (E.R.R.) has been
recalculated, following the same methodology as used in the
SAR, and applying the UNCTAD queueing tables for port
projects to estimate the expected waiting times. Compared
to the initial calculation of the E.R.R. some crucial
parameters have significantly changed. These are briefly
discussed in the following paragraphs.
(i) In the SAR, the total investment cost of the Ports
Rehabilitation Project was estimated at 78.590 million
US dollars (exclusive of taxes and customs duties). By
the end of 1992, the total cost of the project amounted
to 95.326 million US dollars (again exclusive of taxes
and customs duties). This figure includes the cost of
all the project activities funded by IBRD/IDA, the co-
financing institutions and GPHA. Of this total
investment, 58 percent was spent on Tema's rehabilita-
tion, 42 percent on Takoradi's.  Table E 1 summarizes
the project's disbursements for the period 1986 to
1992.
(ii) The traffic volumes assumed in the SAR for Tema
and Takoradi were respectively:
2.604 million tons in 1985
3.500 million tons in 1988
4.295 million tons in 1990
4.855 million tons in 1995
The actual traffic development has been more favorable
than forecasted in 1985, with following throughput
results recorded by GPHA:
4.454 million tons in 1988
4.808 million tons in 1989
5.037 million tons in 1990
5.286 million tons in 1991
5.727 million tons in 1992
However, these total throughput volumes include the
tonnages handled at specialized and private berth. In
the E.R.R. recalculation, the cargoes that were loaded
or discharged at the multi-purpose berths (11 in Tema
and 3 in Takoradi) have been included, whilst also the
bulk cargoes handled at the specialized berths in
Takoradi have been taken into account because of the
positive impact of the rehabilitation scheme
on the performance of these berths. The cargoes
handled at the GPHA multi-purpose berths are:
I/ by Bank Consultant.



- 29 -
H (i)
1.769 million tons in Tema and
0.237 million tons in Takoradi in 1991
2.159 million tons in Tema and
0.210 million tons in Takoradi in 1992,
and compare with the following values retained  in the
SAR:
1.175 million tons in Tema and
0.246 million tons in Takoradi in 1990
1.410 million tons in Tema and
0.298 million tons in Takoradi in 1995
1.600 million tons in Tema and
0.350 million tons in Takoradi in 2000
From these traffic data, it is obvious that in Tema the
throughput of the GPHA berths in 1992 was already well in
excess of the projected value for 2000. In contrast the
1992 throughput of the GPHA berths in Takoradi lagged
behind the forecasted throughput for 1990.
In the recalculation of the E.R.R. the throughput levels
of 1992 have been assumed to peak, i.e. these are  used
as the projected throughput for 1995 and 2000. For Tema,
the logic behind this choice is that the throughput
realized in 1992 already exceeds the maximum expected for
the project by 35 percent, and hence that any further
increase would logically require additional facilities.
For Takoradi, the situation is very different. The expec-
ted throughput levels at GPHA's multi-purpose facilities
have not been attained because the cargoes, which consti-
tute the port's traditional mix are either stagnating or
declining. Moreover no new traffic flows have been gained
and the handling of the container traffic is increasingly
being concentrated on Tema. It would therefore be unrea-
listic, unless a major policy change were introduced by
the Government, to expect ttie throughput figures to
improve beyond the 1992 level. As for the bulk cargoes in
Takoradi, the throughput values of 1992 have been maina-
tined up to the year 2000.
For Takoradi, the assumptions used in the SAR calculation
of the E.R.R. with regard to the handling of cocoa, logs
and timber at the multi-purpose berths (namely that 20
percent of the total traffic of these cargoes in the port
will be handled at GPHA berths) has been retained in the
absence of reliable data with respect to the actual
tonnages handled. However, this assumption is validated
by the low occupancy levels (30 to 40 percent) which have
been recorded for the GPHA multi-purpose berths in 1991
and 1992 and which tally with a relatively minor traffic
of these three commodities across the multi-purpose



- 30 -
H (iii)
berths.
iii)  In the calculation of the berth-day requirements,
the actual productivity figures obtained in 1991 and
1992, were used. In Tema, these represent a substantial
improvement  over  the  initially  projected  figures.  In
Takoradi, the output results at the GPHA berths are
rather disappointing (see also Table P 14) but on the
bulk berths the average output rates of 2,300 and 2,600
tons are 50 to 70 percent better than those that could
have been expected in the case without project. The bulk
berths benefited greatly from enhanced rail access to the
port and improved general port infrastructure and this is
reflected in the output rates. There is still further
scope for improvement in Tema and hence a productivity
gain of 5 percent has been projected for 1995 and another
5 percent for 2000. For Takoradi, it has been assumed
that the productivity rates at the GPHA berths for 1991,
which were not attained in 1992, will again be matched in
1995 and 2000. As for the bulk berths, the average output
rates of 1992 have been taken as the standard performance
up to 2000.
The berth-day requirements for Tema are calculated in
Tables  "Tema  E 2"  and  "Tema  E 3". For Takoradi,  the
assessment of the berth-day requirements is detailed in
Tables "Takoradi E 2 for GPHA berths", "Takoradi E 2 for
specialized bulk berths", "Takoradi E 3 for GPHA berths"
and "Takoradi E 3 for specialized bulk berths".
iv) In the evaluation of the total ship-days at berth, a
number of important assumptions were used. For Tema,
these include the following:
- Berth occupancy is frozen at 90 percent in the
case "without project";
- Of the 11 multi-purpose berths only 8 are used for
cargo-handling; 3 are permanently allocated to the
berthing of fishing vessels;
- Per year 3 960 berth-days are available in the
case "without project", but only 2 880 berth-days
are available in the case "with project";
- The weighted average daily ship cost, using 1992
cost data, comes to 8 500 US dollars. This amount is
based on the actual ship call distribution of 1992,
namely:
* 44 percent of all vessels calling are general
cargo ships costing US $ 4 500 per day;
* 46 percent are cellular containerships, ro-
ro's or multi-purpose vessels costing on avera-
ge US $ 12 500 per day;



P tiv)
* 10 percent are bulk carriers costing some US
S 7 500 per day.
The weighted average daily ship cost of US 5 8 500
used in the recalculation of the E.R.R. compares
with the uniform daily cost of US S 4 500, on which
the initial assessment was based.
For Takoradi the assumptions in connection with the ship-
days at berth, include:
- Three multi-purpose berths are used for handling
50 percent of the conventional general cargo, and 20
percent of cocoa, logs and timber;
- There are 1 080 berth-days available per year;
- The weighted average daily ship cost at the GPHA
berths comes to US $ 7 500, based on the actual ship
call distribution of 1992, namely
* 41 percent are general cargo vessels costing
US $ 4 500 per day;
* 31 percent are cellular containerships, ro-
ro's and multi-purpose vessels costing on ave-
rage US $ 12 500 per day;
X 28 percent are bulk carriers costing some US
<  7 500 per day.
- The average daily ship cost at the specialized
bulk berths comes out at US $ 7 500 per day.
The calculation of the ship waiting time costs and ship
service time costs for both options are summarized in
Tables "Tema E 4" and "Takoradi E 4". The latter presents
the aggregated results for the GPHA multi-purpose berths
and the specialized bulk berths.
v) The "project costs and benefits" tables follow the
same lay-out as in the original E.R.R. calculation.
Following assumptions were used in the assessment of the
costs and benefits:
- Since 1988 the operating and maintenance costs of
GPHA have increased much more rapidly than projected
in the SAR. No accurate data is presently available
on the exact level of the incremental costs, I.6.
those directly and exclusively resulting from the
project implementation. In the recalculation a doub-
ling of the initial operating and maintenance cost
estimates of the SAR has been assumed.
- GPHA has not collected any further data in connec-
tion with  the  "cter  benefits".  Thus  the  savings



-32 -
H (v)
which were estimated in the SAR, on the basis of
norms developed from mid eighties' experience in the
ports, relating to cargo damage, leaking of sheds
and excessive truck waiting times, have been retai-
ned. No doubt this represents an underestimation of
the real benefits thus obtained as a result of the
project's implementation.
- For the specialized bulk berths, apart from the
benefits accruing from improved output performance,
made possible thanks to the rehabilitated access
infrastructure, another benefit has been realized.
Indeed, presently the larger bulk carriers calling
at the berths are capable of taken on larger con-
signment sizes, thanks to the dredging that has been
carried out in the project. This then reduces the
number of voyages required to carry the bulk imports
and exports and constitutes  an additional  saving.
This benefit has not been quantified because data on
the length of the voyages and on the precise extra
tonnage now carried are not readily available. Howe-
ver, it is reasonable to assume that the calculated
E.R.R. value for Takoradi is an underestimate of the
total economic benefits obtained by the port.
2.   The E.R.R.'s based on the project's costs and benefits
flows are shown in Table E 5. The obtained values are respec-
tively 49 percent for Tema and 36 percent for Takoradi. The
overall E.R.R. for the project is 43 percent and compares very
favourably with the' SAR's 28 percent E.R.R. Thus the high
level of project benefits from an avoidance of port congestion
and an improvement of the handling productivity, expected in
the SAR, is confirmed and even improved upon. Initially the
economic effect of the project was assumed to be more or less
the same in both ports (with an E.R.R. of respectively 27 and
29 percent) . The results obtained by the project in 1991 and
1992 show that both Tema and Takoradi have achieved better
economic results than anticipated. But the contribution of the
bulk facilities in Takoradi is more significant than that of
the multi-purpose facilities. The main reason for this, apart
from the stagnation of its traditional cargo flows and a
gradual erosion of its container traffic, is the unsatisfac-
tory cargo-handling output which falls very much short of the
projected productivity levels. In conclusion then, the project
yield is considerably better than the already attractive
economic return which was expected in the SAR. The recalcula-
ted economic returns have nevertheless confirmed the incre-
asing dominance in the general cargo trade of Tema port over
Takoradi  and the latter's dwindling cargo base at the multi-
purpose facilities. This then points to the need for the
Ghanaian government to give renewed consideration to the role
both ports should be playing in the national economy and to
rethink with some urgency the task allocation between both
national ports.



TABLE TEMA
PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS (IN THOUSAND DOLLARS)
PORT OF TEMA
1994       1995        1996        1997       1998        1999      2000
INVESTMENT                        _           _          _           _
OPERATING & MAINTENANCE    3 000          3 000       3 000       3 000      3 000       3 000       3 000
TOTAL COST                     3 000      3 000       3 000       3 000      3 000       3 000       3 000
REDUCTION IN WAITING          13 065     13 073      13 073      13 073     13 073      13 073      13 209
T IM E_ _                        _ _  _  _ _ _ _ _   __ _  _ ___                           _  _  _
REDUCTION IN SERVICE          20 358     20 987      20 987      20 987     20 987      20 987      21 607
TIME
OTHER BENEFITS                 3 083      3 229       3 435       3 643       3 851      4 059       4 266
TOTAL BENEFITS                36 506     37 289      37 49S      37 703     37 911      38 119      39 082
NET BENEFIT                   33 506    34 289       34 495      34 703     34 911      35 119      36 082
Source: SPHA data from Mission Bank Consultant
.4



TABLE TAKORADI
PROJECT COSTS AND BENETM (IN THOUSAND DOLLARS)
PORT OF TAKORADI
1987       1988        1989       1990        1991       1992       1993
INVESTMENT                    6 554       7 784     11 879       8 468       3 960      1 393
OPERATING & MAINTENANCE           -         800       1 350      2 000       2 700      2 700       2 700
TOTAL COST                     6 554      8 584     13 229      10 468       6 660      4 093       2 700
REDUCTION IN WAITING              _                     851      2 552       4 276     17 970      17 370
TIME                                                              .
REDUCTION IN SERVICE                                    927      2 781       4 628      5 008       5 108
TIME__                                      _  _ ___                _ _  _
OTHER BENEFITS                    _                     250      2 200       3 845      3 882       3 921
TOTAL BENEFITS                          -             2 028      7 533      12 749    26 860       26 399
NET BENEFIT                  -6-554    -8 584    -11 201   -2 935            6 089    22 767       23 639
Souce _S_Adaa__    __rm_isson_  ..ank .Cosulan
Source: SPHA data from Mission Bank Consultant



TABLE TAKORADI
PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFrIS (IN THOUSAND DOLLARS)
PORT OF TAKORADI
__ _ ___  1994     1995        1996        1997        1998        1999       2000
INVESTMENT                         -                  -           -           -           -                -
OPERATING & MAINTENANCE    2 700            2 700       2 700        2 700       2 700       2 700       2 700
TOTAL COST                      2 700       2.700       2 700        2 700       2 700       2 700       2 700
REDUCTION IN WAITING           17 370      17 438      17 438      17 438       17 438      17 438      17 438
TIME                                                .
REDUCTION IN SERVICE            5 108       5 581       5 581        5 581       5 581       5 581       5 641
TIME
OTHER BENEFITS                  3 957       3 996       4 038        4 081       4 123       4 166       4 208
TOTAL BENEFITS                 26 43S      27 015      27 057      27 100       27 142      27 185      27 287
NET BENEFIT                    23 735      24 315      24 357      24 400      24 485       24 485      24 587
Source: SPHA data from Mission Bank Consultant
.4



- 36 -
H (ix)
TABLE TEMA/TAKORADI
INPUT STREAMS AND ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
YEAR           TmC                 TEORDADI             TOTAL
l__________    BMNEFITS               BENEFITS             BENEFITS
1986                              _                     _
1987            -  9 050           -  5 554            - 15 604
1988            - 11 749           -  8 584            - 20 333
1989            - 12 280           - 11 201            - 23 481
1990                9 839          -  2 935                6 904
1991               30 901              6 089             36 990
1992               31 293            22 767              54 060
1993               33 361            23 639              57 000
1994               33 506            23 735              57 241
1995               34 289            24 315              58 604
1996               34 495            24 357              58 852
1997               34 703            24 400              59 103
1998               34 911            24 442              59 353
1999               35 119            24 485              59 604
2000               36 082            24 587              60 669
E.R.R.              49.1 %            35.7 %              43.1 %
Source: SPHA data from Mission Bank Consultant



