Docme  of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CA IYG  -&9
Report No. P-4248-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 22.4 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 3, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit
US$1               09o
¢1                US$0.011
SDR1              US$1.094
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHC       -    Bank for Housing and Constructiou
EEC       -    European Economic Community
ERP       -    Export Rehabilitation Project
ERPTA     -    Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance
Project
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
GCHC      -    Ghana Cargo Handling Company
GHA       -    Ghana Highway Authority
GPA       -    Ghana Ports Authority
GPHA      -    Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority
GRC       -    Ghana Railway Corporation
MOTC      -    Ministry of Transport and Communications
MRH       -    Ministry of Roads and Highways
OECF      -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PCU       -    Project Coordination Unit
RIC       -    Reconstruction Import Credit
TLC       -    Takoradi Lighterage Company
WFP       -    World Food Program



GHANA                 FOR OFFICIAL US E ONqLY
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:   Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority (GPHA)
Credit Amount: SDR 22.4 million (US$24.5 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Relending      Proceeds would be onlent to GPHA at 10 percent for 20 years,
Terms:         including a grace period of 5 years.
Project        The project would support the following components in the ports
Description:   of Tema and Takoradi: (a) port rehabilitation and modernization
program, consisting of repair and rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure and facilities, removal of sunken vessels and
other wrecks, provision of container and roll-on/roll-off
facilities at Tema, provision of cargo handling equipment,
communications and office equipment and floating craft, and
repair of salvageable equipment; and (b) institutional
strengthening, consisting of technical assistance for
strengthening management of GPHA, including GPHA headquarters and
port managements at Tema and Takoradi, a training program for
port managers, staff and skilled workers, and support for project
supervision and coordination.
Project        The project would prevent the continuing deterioration in Ghana's
Benefits       port facilities and efficiency and significantly improve
and Risks:     productivity of ship-handling operations.  The main project
benefits would be: (i) savings in ship-time in ports through
reduction of service time and waiting time; and (ii) savings to
cargo owners from reduced damage to cargo and improved port
handling in general. Most of the savings in ship-time will be
passed on to Ghana through reduced freight surcharges or avoided
freight surcharges and freight increases, while all other cargo
handling benefits will accrue directly to Ghanaian importers and
exporters. Main project risks relate to transitional problems
arising from the major reorganization of port agencies and the
establishment of a new private sector dominated container
handling company. However, steps have been taken in project
design and preparation to minimize these risks, by emphasizing a
gradual approach in proposed changes, by enlisting the support of
labor and other interests who have endorsed the reforms, and by
providing adequate technical assistance, supervision support and
training. Furthermore, the Government has shown full support and
commitment to the reforms. Sensitivity analysis shows that even
under very restrictive assumptions on productivity gains, traffic
increases and implementation period, the project would produce a
good economic return. Overall, project risks appear moderate and
acceptable.
Thi document has a restrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofRcial dutiea Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost
Local      Foreign        Total
(US$ Million)
Works                          3.62        24.30         27.92
Equipment                      0.11        28.56         28.67
Technical Assistance           0.44         1.31           1.75
Training Program               0.19         0.83           1.02
Project Supervision            0.33         1.01           1.34
PPF Repayment                    -          1.00           1.00
Total Base Cost           4.69       57.01          61.70
Physical Contingencies         0.72         4.86          5.58
Price Contingencies            1.07        10.44         11.51
Import Taxes                  17.01          -           17.01
Total Project Cos-ts     23.49       72.31          95.80
Financing Plan
Local       Foreign        Total
(US$ Million)
IDA                            3.00        21.50         24.50
Japan (OECF)                    -          29.20         29.20
Saudi Fund                      -          13.15         13.15
European Economic Community   1.20          7.43          8.63
GPRA                           2.28         1.03          3.31
Govt. of Ghana (loan          17.01          -           17.01
covering deferred payment
of import taxes)
TOTAL                      23.49       72.31          95.80
Estimated Disbursement
(US$ Million)
IDA
Fiscal Year     1987       1988      1989       1990      1991       1992
(US $ Million)
Annual          4.1         8.0       7.6        3.1       1.5        0.2
Cumulative      4.1        12.1      19.7       22.8      24.3       24.5
Economic Rate of Return:  Approximately 28 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5907-GH, dated March 3, 1986
Maps: IBRD 18484R1, 19250 and 19251



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR A
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.    ~   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Ghana for the equivalent of
SDR 22.4Hmillion (US$24.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a ports rehabilitation project. The proceeds of the Credit would
be onlent to the Ghana Ports Authority for 20 years including 5 years of
grace at 10 percent per annum. The following cofinancing funds are
expected; (i) US$29.2 million equivalent from the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan at 3.5 percent per annum for 30 years including
10 years of grace; (ii) US$13.15 million equivalent from the Saudi Fund
with terms and conditions still to be finalized; and (iii) US$8.63 million
equivalent from EEC on a grant basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1I
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana: Towards Structural Adjust-
ment" was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1985. A
snumary of the economic situation is presented in this section. Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living compared with
most other West African nations. However, a declining gross national
income has combined with high population growth (estimated at about 3 per-
cent a year) to cause a substantial erosion in real per capita income. The
average per capita income in 1984 is estimated at US$350, which represents
a substantial decline over what it was a decade ago. The rate of unemploy-
ment is quite high and underemployment is widespread. Almost half the
population of about 12 million is now estimated to live in absolute
poverty. The country's basic needs indicators, once the best in Africa,
are now no better than those of other Sub-Sahara African countries with
comparable per capita incomes. Modern health services are available to
only about a third of the people, and only 47 percent have access to safe
water. Although the education system is well established and primary
schooling has been free since 1962, 50 percent of adult meu and 70 percent
of adult women have had no formal education.
1/  This Part is substantially the same as Part I of the President's
Report for the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on January 23, 1986.



-2--
Basic Structural Characteristics
4.        Ghana is compararively well endowed with natural and human
resources. The country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold,
but also diamonds, bauxite, manganese, and offshore oil. There is abundant
hydro power. Ghana has a relatively good supply of land suitable for
growing tree crops, most importantly cocoa, but also oil palm, rubber, and
coconut; cereals and starchy staples; and possesses considerable fishing
and forestry resources.
5.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for
about half of GDP. Approximately 11 percent of the land area is
cultivated. Previously, cocoa had covered about half of the cultivated
land, but acreage has declined greatly in recent years. Nearly 70 percent
of the population derive an income from agriculture or related activities.
The staple foods are maize, rice, millet, yam, cassava, and plantain but,
except for cassava, yields have stagnated in recent years. Per capita food
production in 1983 was only 61 percent of that in 1975. Prolonged droughts
in 1975-77 and 1982-83, inadequate support services, poor transpert facili-
ties, and lack of fertilizers and other inputs contributed to the decline.
In recent years, Ghana has had to import 10 to 15 percent of its cereal
consumption (mainly rice and maize).
6.        Ghana's economy is highly dependent on primary products for
exports. Cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's third largest producer)
contributes about two-thirds of total export earnings, although production
has been declining. Mining, primarily gold, is Ghana's second largest
foreign exchange earner, contributing 20 percent of the total, although
production has fallen over the past two decades. Timber is also an impor-
tant export. Efforts to diversify the export base have not made much
headway.
7.        Industrial production and services currently account for 9 per-
cent and 40 percent of GDP, respectively. Manufacturing-including tex-
tiles, steel, tires, oil refining and simple consumer goods--contributed
5 percent of GDP in 1984 down from 11 percent in 1970 and provided full- or
part-time employment to just over one-tenth of the labor force. Manufac-
turing in Ghana remains heavily dependent on imported inputs.
8.        Ghana used to import all of its petroleum, mostly in the form of
crude oil, which is refined domestically and used chiefly as fuel for
transport. Recently, some oil deposits have been discovered and commercial
exploitation has commenced. However, produc-cion of crude was about 600
barrels per day in 1984, satisfying only a minor share of the country's
requirements, and declined to negligible levels in 1985. Hydropower
generates most of Ghana's electricity, some of which is exported to
neighboring countries. It was drastically affected by the drought during
1983-84, but production is now returning to more normal levels.
Past Economic Developments - The Inheritance
9.        Throughout the 1970s, Ghana's economy was poorly managed.  Large
budget deficits, necessitated partly to support a sprawling, inefficient



- 3 -
public sector, led to a marked acceleration in domestic inflation. Given
the reluctance to move the exchange rate, the fixed nominal rate became
grossly overvalued, shifting relative incentives away from exports into
import trade, and more specifically from cocoa, Ghana's main export, into
subsistence food production. The resulting deterioration in export perfor-
mance, combined with a growing disenchantment on the part of aid donors
with Ghana's performance, caused a perpetual foreign exchange crisis that
pushed successive Governments into increasingly restrictive import regimes.
What was once an economy with ample imports became one starved of the main
fuel for its growth. The erosion of the tax base due to declining exports
and imports, and the related drop in economic activity forced severe
cutbacks in Government operations and maintenance and capital expenditures.
There was a marked deterioration in what was once fairly well developed
economic and social infrastructure. This, in turn, further reduced the
country's productive capacity.
10.       A tendency to respond to shortages with controls and rationing
worsened the problem by eroding the incentives to produce and save, dimin-
ishing the capacity of public sector entities to maintain the level and
quality of services, and creating a vast parallel black market with its
related corruption, smuggling and tax evasion. Declining real wages,
political instability and reduced economic opportunities led talented and
skilled Ghanaians to leave the country, depriving it of scarce managerial,
administrative and technical resources.
11.       To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was subjected in the early
1980s to three other problems. First, a prolonged and severe drought
created the.worst food shortages since Independence. Second, the external
terms of trade sharply deteriorated following the increase in petroleum
prices, and a softening in prices of Ghana's major exports (cocoa and
gold). Third, the sudden return of over one million Ghanaians from Nigeria
severely strained the food and employment situation. The cumulative effect
of the downward economic spiral and these most recent "shocks" to the
system can be seen in the trends in key economic indicators between 1970
and 1982: per capita real income declined by 30 percent; import volumes
fell by a third; real export earnings fell 52 percent; domestic savings and
investment declined from 12 and 14 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1970 to
almost insignificant levels; inflation ran at 44 percent per annum over the
period.
A Program of Reforms
12.       The Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) came to power
under the leadership of Flight Lieutenant Rawlings on December 31, 1981.
An Economic Recovery Program was developed by the Government in close
coordination with the DiF and the World Bank. The program has been sup-
ported by two IMF Standby Arrangements, totaling SDR 419 million, the
latter extending through December 1985; SDR 179 million in purchases from
the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF) on account of both a shortfall in
merchandise exports and an excess in the cost of cereal imports; and two
IDA Export Rehabilitation and two Import Reconstruction Credits, in all
totaling some SDR 215 million. Policy measures were aimed at a realignment
of relative prices in favor of production (particularly cocoa, timber, and



-4-.
minerals), an improvement in the Government's financial position, and the
encouragement of private investment. The most important measure taken was
the movement towards a more realistic exchange rate. The cedi depreciated
from 02.75 - US$1.00 in April 1983 to 060 - US$1.00 by October 1985. In
January 1986 the Government made significant progress towards reaching an
equilibrium exchange rate by moving to 090 - US$1.00. Administered prices
have been adjusted to reduce the distortions arising from the overvalued
exchange rate, the most critical being a near doubling of the cocoa
producer price announced in May 1985. Petroleum prices have been raised
steadily in line with changes in the exchange rate. In addition, price
controls are being dismantled. Only 8 items are now subject to controls
administered by the Prices and Incomes Board compared to 23 in April 1983.
In addition, the prices of beer and cigarettes are determined in
conjunction with the Government budget because of revenue implications.
Interest rates have been adjusted in stages to the point that they are now
positive in real terms. The rate on 12-month time deposits has doubled
since October 1983 to the present level of 18 percent. The maximum lending
rate is now 23 percent, up nine percentage points since October 1983. In
the area of fiscal policy, the Government's efforts have concentrated on
eliminating subsidies; resource mobilization through improved tax
collection and se_ective increases in consumption taxes and charges; and
more adequate provision for maintenance and capital expenditures. In
addition, public sector salaries and wages, and statutory minimum wages
have been raised to offset partially the drastic erosion in real income.
At the beginning of 1986 the Government implemented a wage increase which
aimed to reverse in a substantial way the service decompression in salary
level differentials between the highest and lowest paid workers in the
civil service.
13.       Following the announcement of this program, the Bank, in consul-
tation with the Government, decided to reactivate the Ghana Consultative
Group which had lain dormant for 13 years. There has been a good response
to this initiative. The Group met in Paris, first in November 1983, and
then again in December 1984 and November 1985, and has broadly supported
the Government's program. Given the new aid commitments of about $478 mil-
lion that materialized following the 1984 meeting and the existing pipe-
line, disbursements during 1985 are estimated to be about US$300 million,
helping to finance the increase in imports, thereby stimulating domestic
production and exports.
Response of the Economy
14.       The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms was
temporarily crippled by the severe drought in 1983 and a lag in aid in-
flows. Nevertheless, the Govermment continued and even broadened the
reform program. After a real decline in output in 1983, economic perfor-
mance sharply improved on several counts in 1984, benefitting to a large
degree from the return to normal rainfall, but also from better policies.
The economy grew by nearly 8 percent. Agriculture led growth because of a
sharp expansion in foodcrops (output more than doubled for several crops),
while cocoa production rose by only 8 percent from the historical low of
the previous crop year. Wholesale and retail trade, and manufacturing
output increased in line with overall growth, reflecting higher import



- 5 -
levels and the restoration of power supplies. Preliminary estimates for
1985 indicate a growth in GDP of about 5 percent, spurred primarily by
higher output in forestry, mining, and manufacturing. Given the higher
base, growth in agriculture is expected to be less, but cocoa output is
likely to rise to 200,000 tons in the 1985/86 season, an increase of
16 percent over 1984/85.
The Budget
15.       The Government's fiscal position improved markedly in 1984.
Revenues as a share of GDP rose from 5 percent in 1983 to 8 percent in
1984. The gain primarily reflected the impact of the depreciation of the
exchange rate on the tax base and on the profits of export sectors.
Although a lower than expected level of imports caused a shortfall in
revenue in several categories, this was more than made up by higher bank
profits (reflecting the deregulation of interest rates), major gains in
income tax collection, and a sharp increase in nontax revenue. Recurrent
expenditures rose modestly from 7 percent of GDP in 1983 to 8 percent in
1984. Development expenditures and net lending increased to 1.7 percent of
GDP, somewhat less than planned. As a result of these trends the overall
budget deficit narrowed to 1.7 percent of GDP and reliance on bank
financing was halved to only 0.6 percent of GDP. Although the overall
budget deficit is expected to increase to 2.3 percent of GDP in 1985,
primarily because of a much needed expansion in development expenditures,
it is expected that nearly two-thirds of it will be covered by foreign
financing, enabling domestic bank financing to be cont ined below the 1984
level.
Money and Credit
16.       The massive exchange rate depreciation since April 1983, together
with the credit ceilings which are part of the government's program under
the IMF Standby Arrangement, resulted in a severe liquidity squeeze in the
banking system during 1984. While the demand for cedi credit to finance
imports expanded sharply, the growth of broad money (M2) declined from
49 percent in 1983 to 29 percent in 1984. Domestic credit rose by 32 per-
cent in 1984, compared to 41 percent in 1983. The slowdown primarily
reflected lower growth in net credit to the government. Although private
sector credit more than doubled (from a very low base) in 1984, the in-
crease was inadequate relative to needs.
Prices
17.       Higher food supplies and the resulting sharp drop in prices was a
major reason for the deceleration in inflation in 1984, from an annunl
average increase of 123 percent in 1983 to 40 percent in 1984. This trend
continued during the first half of 1985. The June 1985 point to point rate
was only 7 percent, despite an exchange rate depreciation of about 50 per-
cent in this period. This confirms that prices already were reflecting
scarcity values and the tightness of current fiscal and monetary policies.



-6-
Balance of Payments
18.       The current account of the balance of payments showed a deficit
of 2.7 percent of GDP in 1984, close to the 1983 level. This outcome was
considerably lower than had been expected, almost entirely due to a large
import shortfall because of the continued tight foreign exchange situation
during the first half of the year. Export earnings rose by about 30 per-
cent, reflecting higher world prices for cocoa and an increase in
electricity sales. On the capital account, in spite of some initial
delays, aid disbursements rose sharply; net aid increased from 0.9 percent
of GDP in 1983 to 3.4 percent in 1984. Allowing for other official and
private capital movements, the overall deficit in 1984 amounted to
US$121 million. This was financed by net IMF purchases of US$214 million.
The balance of Fund resources was used to reduce arrears and to build up
foreign exchange reserves. In 1985 both exports and imports are expected
to recover further and the current account deficit is projected to widen to
5.5 percent of GDP. Higher capital inflows are forecast, enabling the
overall deficit to decline from the 1984 level. Expected IMF repurchases
would be sufficient to cover the deficit and to clear more payment arrears.
Development Program
19.       In addition to achieving an appropriate incentive framework,
public expenditure policy is an equally important component of the Govern-
ment's development strategy. The neglected state of Ghana's economic and
social infrastructure has become a critical bottleneck to the reform
program's efforts to generate a strong supply response. Recognizing this
weakness, the Government's Economic Recovery Program for 1984-86 initiated
rehabilitation programs in key sectors - cocoa, timber, gold mining, and
transport infrastructure. At the same time, the Government has begun to
prepare a three-year rolling development program, beginning in 1986, based
on a review of public expenditures conducted jointly with the Bank in the
spring of 1985. The highest priorities in the area of recurrent expendi-
tures are to restore the viability and efficiency of public administration
and to expand significantly support to health and education. In addition,
adequate allocations need to be provided for operations and maintenance.
To meet these needs, annual average recurrent expenditures during 1986-88
would have to be about 20 percent higher in real terms than the levels
budgeted in 1985. The initial work on the capital side indicates
substantial rehabilitation needs of the strategic economic sectors--
agriculture, mining, and economic infrastructure. Consequently, there is a
large number of projects with high returns on incremental investments. The
only area where significant new investments have been identified is oil
exploration, which would be financed primarily by foreign investors.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.       Ghana's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed at end-1984 amounted to US$1.1 billion, about 20 percent of
GDP. Bilateral creditors account for slightly less than half of the total,
multilateral sources for about 40 percent (Bank loans and IDA credits
comprise 28 percent of total debt), and suppliers credits for only 10 per-
cent. Despite the predominance of soft loans, Ghana's debt service burden



-7-
in the coming years is likely to be very heavy, for several reasons: first,
amortization of previously rescheduled debt began in 1983; second, there is
a relatively large amount of short-term debt, including US$230 million of
payment arrears at end-1984 which are to be cleared by 1988; and third, the
reported debt excludes the use of Fund credit under the recent Standby
Arrangements. The debt service ratio doubled from 14 percent in 1982 to
29 percent in 1984. Including IMF charges and arrears payments, the share
was 44 percent. In 1985-86 the debt service ratio is expected to be about
44 percent, 60 percent including IMF charges and arrears payments.
21.       In spite of the considerable gains which have been made, Ghana's
economic situation remains difficult. That consideration plus the coun-
try's dependence on, and hence vulnerability to, fluctuations in cocoa
earnings, make it desirable that future debt service obligations be kept as
low as possible. In addition, Ghana's per capita income is relatively low
(US$350). Consequently, Ghana will have to depend on IDA resources for
Bank Group borrowing over the next few years. In order to help ensure an
adequate flow of foreign exchange into Ghana and to supplement the coun-
try's resource mobilization efforts, it also would be appropriate for
donors to finance a significant portion of local project costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 1/
Lending Strategy
22.       The principal objectives which now guide the formulation of the
Bank's assistance program to Ghana are: (a) to support the adoption of
policies designed to adjust the structure and improve the efficiency of the
economy and return it to a path of growth; (b) to help rehabilitate and
improve capacity utilization of the country's existing productive assets;
(c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial production, particularly for
export promotion and efficient import substitution; and (d) to improve the
country's essential infrastructure (transport, water, petroleum, power) and
relieve major bottlenecks to increased production. The Bank Group is
undertaking a substantial program of economic and sector work to broaden
and deepen understanding of the constraints which are likely to impede the
recovery process and to provide direction to future lending and the design
of project components. An economic memorandum (Report No. 5854-GH dated
October 7, 1985) has been prepared and, in preparation for the Second
Reconstruction Imports Credit, the Government budget and import program for
1985 were reviewed in detail. A public expenditure review, an agricultural
sector review and an industrial sector study have been completed. An
energy assessment is currently being carried out. As part of the
preparation for a possible structural adjustment credit, a 1986-88
1/   This Part is substantially the same as Part II of the President's
Report for the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on January 23, 1986.



development plan and 1986 import program are being reviewed in close
coordination with the IMF. In both lending and economic sector work,
attention is being given to ways of strengthening the institutions
responsible for economtr management and development spending.  The Bank's
dialogue has been most effective, and the Government continues to be both
receptiv: and responsive to the Bank's advice.
23.       In response to the Government's announcement of a major economic
reform program in April 1983, the Bank Group reopened its lending to Ghana
which had been put in abeyance for nearly two years due to political and
economic uncertainties and lack of proper economic policies. The Executive
Directors approved a US$40 million Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) which
aims to meet emergency import requirements for the agricultural and trans-
port sectors and is now approaching successful completion. A second RIC
for US$60 million covering the agriculture, transport, mining and manufac-
turing sectors was approved in March 1985 and supplemented with an African
Facility Credit of US$27 million in September 1985. Two credits were also
made for export rehabilitation and related technical assistance. To date,
despite some expected initial problems, the performance on projects
approved after April 1983 has been satisfactory.
24.       In FY86, the Power System Rehabilitation Project with an IDA
Credit of $28.0 million and the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project
with an IDA Credit of $15.0 million have already been approved. In the
near future, IDA expects to support an agricultural rehabilitation project
emphasizing cash crops, as well as a program for the rehabilitation and
restructuring of key subsectors in industry. In brief, projects with major
rehabilitation components are likely to absorb the bulk of IDA resources in
the immediate and near term as these are likely to show the highest
benefits and quickest returns. IDA is also maintaining a dialogue with the
Government for a possible structural adjustment credit in the near future.
The extent to which the Bank Group can provide financial and technical
assistance to support such a broad-based program will be conditioned upon
the performance of the Government ir. carrying through its economic recovery
program.
Past Operations
25.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Eank has made 10 loans totalling US$189.7 million and 32 credits
totalling US$595.2 million (including two Special African Facility Credits
for US$37 million). In addition, Ghana is a beneficiary of a Bank-financed
regional clinker project covering three countries (Togo, Ivory Coast and
Ghana). An IFC investment of US$55 million in Ashanti Goldfields
Corporation in Ghana was approved in June 1984. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of December 31, 1985.
26.       Energy has been a major focus of Bank Group lending to Ghana
(23.5 percent of commitments). Projects financed in this sector include
three hydro power generation projects and three power distribution
projects. A project aimed at strengthening Ghana's technical capacity to
accelerate petroleum exploration was approved in May 1983. A second
project in the sector, approvtd in March 1984, provides technical



- 9 - .
assistance and financing of immediate requirements for rehabilitation of
Ghana's sole refinery. The second most important sector in the Bank
Group's program in Ghana is transportation (18.2 percent of commitments)
with four road projects and a railway rehabilitation project. The two
Reconstruction Import Credits and the Export Rehabilitation Project are
also providing partial emergency assistance to the road transport and port
subsectors. The Accra District Rehabilitation Project supports the
transport subsector in the Accra area as well as the strengthening of the
administrative and financial basis of the Accra City Council and the
improvement of a poorer section of the city. In agriculture (17.4 percent
of commitments), the main thrust of the Bank Group's operations has been to
assist the country in achieving self-sufficiency in agricultural
production, particularly food and raw materials for agro-industries, and
rehabilitating the cocoa subsector. In the field of water supply, three
projects (in 1969, 1974 and 1983) have helped increase and improve water
supply in the Accra/Tema metropolitan area and adjacent rural areas, with
the most recent one helping to carry out emergency repairs and maintenance
on main water pipelines. In the manufacturing sector, two DFC operations
(in 1975 and 1979) have financed investment projects in manufacturing and
agro-industry undertaken by small and medium enterprises.
Project Implementation Experience
27.       The country's economic difficulties in recent years have
adversely affected a number of Bank Group-financed projects. Dwindling
Government revenues have denied projects needed local financing, and the
lack of foreign exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported
materials and spare parts required for completed projects. The mass exodus
of qualified Ghanaians to neighboring countries, and demoralization,
absenteeism and low productivity among the remaining work force have also
adversely affected project performance. The unusually adverse conditions
surrounding Bank Group-financed projects and their generally poor perfor-
mance have been described in greater detail in the Project Performance
Audit Reports. Overall, the main conclusion of the reports was that
macroeconomic and sectoral policy constraints were the major factors
responsible for poor performance of the audited projects. Because of
delays experienced in the implementation of a number of Bank Group-financed
projects in Ghana, disbursement performance is behind appraisal estimates.
Annual gross disbursements over the four-year period FY82-85 have averaged
about 20.9 percent of outstanding loan/credit commitments and as of
December 31, 1985, US$348.8 million remained undisbursed. The Bank Group
has held periodic implementation reviews with the Government to identify
steps which could be taken by borrowers and the Bank Group to accelerate
disbursement on ongoing loans and credits.
IFC Operations
28.       IFC approved an investment of US$55 million in the mining sector
(Ashanti Goldfields Corporation Ltd. (AGC)) in June 1984. This is IFC's
first investment in Ghana. The loan will help finance a US$158 million
rehabilitation project designed to increase gold output from about
255,000 oz. in 1984 to 400,000 oz. in 1939-90, a level of production AGC



- 10 -
last achieved in the early 1970s before the deterioration in Ghana's
foreign exchange situation began to affect production at the mine.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
29.       At the time of independence in 1956, Ghana had a relatively we2l
developed transport system, which was further expanded over the subsequent
two decades. However, in recent years, due to neglect, inadequate financ-
ing, and organizational and management deficiencies, it has deteriorated
considerably, and is now almost entirely in a poor state of repair. The
system comprises: (a) a network of about 14,100 km of trunk and urban
arterial roads, and about an equal length of feeder roads; (b) a railway
system of 947 km of main and branch lines linking the country's three major
cities (Accra, Kumasi and Takoradi) in the southern half of the country;
(c) two major deep-water ports at Tema and Takoradi and several fishing
ports; (d) a small inland water transport system on the Volta Lake; (e) a
national maritime shipping company, the Black Star Lines; and (f) one
international airport at Accra and three main domestic airports, as well as
a national airline, Ghana Airways (GA), providing international, regional
and domestic air transport services (see Map IBRD 18484R).
30.       Administration of the transport sector is the responsibility
mainly of two Ministries: (i) the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MOTC) which is responsible for the formulation and monitoring of policies
and programs of public and private sector organizations and for overseeing
the work of the public sector agencies in ports, shipping, railways and air
transport; and (ii) the Ministry of Roads and Highways (MlX) which deals
with the planning, construction and maintenance of highways, urban roads
and feeder roads. In addition, the Ministry of Fuel and Power oversees the
Volta Lake Transport Company.
31.       About 85 percent of road transport, which is the dominant part of
the transport system, is operated by the private sector. The public
sector, on the other hand, controls ports, lake transport, railways and
domestic civil aviation. Though state intervention was a major feature of
policy in the past, the present Government has clearly announced itself in
favor of encouraging the private sector, reorganizing public sector organ-
izations on more efficient lines, and privatizing some of them if
justified. In the transport sector, the Government's recent decisions to
seek foreign private sector participation to operate and jointly own the
public sector Tema Shipyard and Drydock Corporation, to drastically curtail
staff and operations of the Black Star Lines, and to set up a
private-sector dominated container handling company in Tema port (para.
41)-are examples of this policy shift.
32.       Ghana's transport system has nearly broken down over the past few
years and is a serious constraint to economic recovery. Due to lack of
regular maintenance and upkeep for several years, the present capacity of
virtually all transport modes in Ghana is inadequate to meet even the
current reduced level of demand. The Government's transport strategy
emphasizes maintenance and rehabilitation rather than creation of new



- 11 -_
capacity and, with the assistance of IDA and other financing agencies, has
recently made concerted efforts to remove infrastructure constraints.
These efforts cover all the main subsectors - road transport, roads,
railways, civil aviation and ports.
33.       To address the varied problems confronting the vital road
subsector, the Government, with the support of IDA, prepared a Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, which was approved by the
Association in June 1985 (Cr.1601-GH for US$40.0 million), and is supported
by additional financing from IDA's Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa
(US$10.0 million), and cofinancing from the African Development Bank
(AfDB), Japanese Government, World Food Program (WFP), and the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP).
34.       Ghana's railway system, operated by the Government-owned Ghana
Railway Corporation (GRC), has played a major role in carrying four of
Ghana's most important export products to the ports: bauxite, manganese and
timber to Takoradi, and cocoa to both Takoradi and Tema. The ongoing
Railway Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1170-GH of July 1981) supports the
reorganization and physical rehabilitation of the system.  This project is
expect zd be completed in 1986, when rail capacity on the western line,
which is the principal export corridor, should improve considerably.
Already rail freight traffic in 1985 shows about 40 percent increase over
the traffic in 1984.
The Ports Subsector
35.       Present Situation.  Ghana has tvo main ports: Tema, near Accra,
opened in 1960 and fully developed by 1967, and Takoradi, opened in 1928
and further rehabilitated and extended in 1954 (see Maps IBRD No. 19250 and
19251). Tema, the premier port, has 11 general cargo berths and two
specialized berths for handling petroleum products and alumina. Takoradi
has four alongside berths for general cargo and nine mooring berths in the
harbour basin, and one berth each for manganese ore, bauxite, petroleum
products and clinker. Both ports are connected to the road and rail
network of the country (see Map IBRD No. 18484R); Tema is also linked by a
60-km road to the Volta Lake transport system which is being improved.
36.       Both ports were built with ample capacity, but their present
effective capacity is severely limited. Port operations have become
increasingly inefficient (para. 38), resulting in extremely low loading and
unloading rates, excessive ship-time at berth, and high demurrage and
freight charges. Average ship productivity for break-bulk general cargo is
only about one third of what could be achieved under normal circumstances.
Total port cargo throughput, which was about 5.5 million tons in 1970,
declined to 2.2 million tons in 1983. Even this reduced volume was handled
at the ports under severe capacity constraints with an estimated avoidable
higher cost of at least US$10 million per annum in ship-time alone.
Moreover, without improvements, the ports would be unable to handle the
traffic expected by about 1990, thus severely crippling the country's
economic recovery. Traffic rose to 2.4 million tons in 1984, and to an
estimated 2.6 million tons in 1985. Under the impact of Ghana's economic



- 12 -
recovery program, port traffic is expected to increase to about 4.3 million
tons in 1990, which is less than the level achieved in 1975.
37.       Port Organization and Management.  Infrastructure and installa-
tions in both ports are owned and operated by the Ghana Ports and Harbours
Authority (GPHA), which is a statutory Government corporation set up in
early 1986, after the merger of the erstwhile Ghana Ports Authority (GPA)
with two other public agencies which operated in the ports, namely, the
Ghana Cargo Handling Company (GCHC) and the Takoradi Lighterage Company
(TLC). Until reorganization, GPA owned all port facilities, installations
and part of the cargo-handling equipment, while GCHC and TLC also owned
some of the cargo-handling equipment. GCHC did all shore handling
operations and 75 percent of stevedoring operations in both ports, while
TLC, which operated only in Takoradi port, did all lighterage work and also
all log and timber handling on shore. About 25 percent of the stevedoring
operations in each port was done by two private stevedoring firms, whose
role is being reinforced and enhanced following reorganization.
38.       Main Port Problems.  The main reasons for low port productivity
and low effective port capacity are: (i) severe deterioration in the
condition of the ports' physical infrastructure caused by neglected mainte-
nance over a long period; (ii) inefficient organization of the port
sub-sector; and (iii) weak management of the individual port agencies.
Most of the port facilities and equipment have had no regular maintenance
for the last 10 years due mainly to a lack of foreign exchange to finance
imports. Because of this and the age of equipment, most of the
cargo-handling equipment and floating craft remain practically unservice-
able. Moreover, because of frequent personnel changes and unclear
demarcation of responsibilities and authority between the three main
Government agencies running the port activities, port efficiency has
suffered considerably. Until the recent reorganization, the three agencies
operated with overlapping jurisdictions, without effective coordination,
causing frequent conflicts, delays to ships, pilferage and damage to cargo,
and overall inefficient management of the ports. The individual agencies
themselves suffer from poor management because of shortage of qualified and
experienced staff, and an ill-defined management structure.
39.       Remedial Actions.  Some recovery from the dismal situation of the
ports in 1982-83 has already taken place with IDA assistance. The port
agencies are effectively utilizing the allocation for spare parts and some
limited equipment and crafts financed under the Export Rehabilitation
Project (ERP), Credit 1435-GE of January 1984, which provides US$4.8
million from IDA and IDA Special Fund for port components. Further, since
1983, the Government has allowed the port agencies to levy port charges on
foreign ships in foreign exchange, and to retain 20 percent of the foreign
exchange receipts in their own accounts to buy spare parts and other
essential goods. To ensure that the port agencies are not starved of
foreign exchange needed for continued regular maintenance, agreement was
reached during negotiations that the port agencies, including the private
stevedoring companies, would continue to retain a minimum of 20 percent of
their foreign exchange earnings to meet the foreign exchange component of
their maintenance and rehabilitation needs; a higher percentage of such
retention would be allowed if annual maintenance and rehabilitation needs



- 13 --
in any year are estimated to exceed the amount accumulated under this
arrangement.
40.       Government had undertaken, under the Export Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance Project (ERPTA), to restructure the port sub-sector
organization as necessary and according to a timetable acceptable to IDA,
on completion of a diagnostic study by port management consultants financed
under ERPTA. Such a study was completed in November 1984. Based on a
review of its findings, Government agreed during project appraisal, in
consultation with IDA and concerned port agencies and labor interests, to
implement a reorganization plan on the following lines: (i) restructuring
GPA by merging with it the other two public agencies (GCHC and TLC), thus
establishing GPHA under a Board of Directors with adequate user
representation, and orienting GPHA's operations on commercial principles;
(ii) making the two ports of Tema and Takoradi semi-autonomous, i.e. fully
independent in operations, with separate accounts, and competing with each
other on the basis of service-efficiency, while the GPHA Head Office will
be coordinating general policy, overall financing, investment planning,
training and other areas of common interest: (iii) reinforcing the present
role of the two private stevedoring companies with provision for future
increases in the private sector share; and (iv) establishing a new
container handling company with majority participation of the private
sector (51 percent) and with private sector management, with the objective
of ensuring efficient management and operation of the new container
handling and storage facility (container yard) to be set up in Tema port.
GPHA will hold the remaining capital (49 percent) of the new company.
Since the new company will have to depend on GPEA for physical access to
berths and for some other operations, the concept of a joint enterprise
with GPHA will assist in smoother operations of the container yard. This
new company will take over all container yard operations presently done by
GPHA with partial support from shipping agents. The share of container
traffic in Tema is expected to increase from about 20 percent of general
cargo in 1984 to above 40 percent in 1990, thus ensuring a larger private
sector role in cargo handling operations at the port through the new
company. During negotiations, Government confirmed its agreement to
implement the above reorganization plan.
41.       According to the timetable for reorganization agreed between
Government ard IDA, the Government would enact the new GPHA Law and
establish GPHA in early 1986; this goal has been achieved. An action plan
and timetable for strengthening GPHA management and operations has also
been agreed. Government has further agreed that the new container company
would be incorporated by June 1986 (a condition of credit effectiveness);
and that the new company would start operations within 12 months of its
incorporation. To increase private participation and competition, the
Government and GPHA have also agreed to the following measures:
(a) maintaining, as a minimum, the present share of 25 percent of stevedore
operations by the two private stevedoring firms operating in Tema and
Takoradi up to end-1989, and providing them with adequate foreign exchange
retention and access to the training program under the project;
(b) completing a study, before March 31, 1989, on measures for further
increasing the role of private sector firms in port handling operations,
with emphasis on competition; and (c) in light of review of the above



- 14 --
study, agree with IDA before June 30, 1989 on a plan for implementing an
enhanced role for the private sector in port handling operations from
January 1990 onwards.
42.       Under the GPHA legislation, its Board of Management has strong
representation of port users. In addition to the Board Chairman, it has a
Director-General as chief executive, and a Director for each port (Tema and
Takoradi). The two port directors will be members of the Board to ensure
their independent status. GPHA and Government have agreed to prepare port
regulations under the GPHA Law, to ensure that GPHA will operate under
sound commercial principles and that the GPHA Head Office will not
interfere in the day-to-day operations of the individual ports which will
be semi-autonomous. GPHA will have rate making authority subject to the
general guidance of the Government. Key positions in the GPHA have.been
filled; arrangements for matching personnel to agreed job descriptions,
prepared by consultants, are in progress, and will be substantially
completed by end of June 1986. Pending completion of this process, staff
of the erstwhile agencies continue on their original functions as employees
of GPHA, so that port operations would continue without disruption. The
proposed project would provide substantial expatriate expertise, both as
line managers and advisors, to strengthen GPHA management.
43.       Steps already taken or being taken to strengthen port management
are: (i) appointment in early 1985 of a highly competent and assertive
director in charge of GPA who has already made an impact in improving port
management; (ii) appointment of individual consultants for improving
equipment and civil works maintenance, port operations, procurement of
equipment, and for reorganization of port accounts, financed under ERPTA;
(iii) inclusion in the proposed project of a technical assistance program
aimed at bringing expatriate experts to assist management of key
departments and at developing a recruitment and training program; and
(iv) appointment of port management consultants to undertake a follow-up
study of (a) the detailed management structure for the reorganized GPA,
(b) staff distribution and manning levels under the new organization, (c) a
uniform tariff and billing system after merger of the three public sector
firms, and (d) organizational arrangements to be followed by the new
container company. Based on a review of the study's interim findings, an
action plan was agreed during negotiations, including a timetable of main
actions to be implemented to strengthen management. The action plan
includes operational targets for improved port productivity, and target
dates for completing the restructuring of GPHA management, introducing
incentive wage systems, studying and proposing tariff reforms, preparing
future investment plans, and taking other necessary steps. GPHA has also
agreed to a gradual reduction of excess staff (GPHA having inherited a
staff and work force of about 7,800 from the three agencies).
44.       Customs and port documentation procedures are at present very
complex and cause undue delays. GPHA has agreed to engage consultants,
financed by ERPTA, to study this problem and to suggest improvements.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to (a) have this study completed
before December 31, 1986, and (b) prepare, before June 30, 1987, in light



- 15 --
of the study findings, an implementation program and timetable acceptable
to the Association, and to implement it accordingly.
45.       In 1984, the World Food Program (WFP) launched a three-year
program to supply imported food items, not produced locally, to workers and
staff of the port agencies. This, together with the increased availability
of spare parts and technical advice through ERP and ERPTA, has brought
about some improvement in labor productivity.
Transport Sector Issues
46.       A recent Transport Sector Strategy Note (TSSN) on Ghana, focusing
on the country's main transport problems and policy issues (Report No.
5737-GH, June 1985), proposes a coordinated approach linking necessary
policy and institutional reforms to a phased program of assistance to
rehabilitate the sector. From the conclusions of this report and
discussions with the Government, the IMF and other major donors, it is
clear that the Bank Group's strategies in the transport sector should
continue to concentrate on rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing
roads, bridges, ports, and railways together with a strong emphasis on
institutional improvement and local staff training. The TSSN provides a
reference point for further action and follow-up by the Government and the
Association. Solutions to the main sector issues highlighted by the TSSN
have already been agreed with Government in the context of the recent (June
1985) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project. These actions include:
(a) setting up of a Road Fund for financing road maintenance, and its
funding through road user charges mainly in the form of higher fuel taxes;
(b) regular review with IDA of Government investment plans and programs in
the transport sector to ensure an order of priority of investments; and (c)
strengthening of transport planning in the country through technical
assistance for planning units in the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MOTC), the Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH), the Ghana
Highway Authority (GHA) and the Department of Feeder Roads.
Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector
47.       Following an engineering credit for US$1.5 million in 1969 for
the preparation of road projects, the Bank Group provided four highway
credits/loans to Ghana. The First Highway Project (Credit 438-GH for
US$13.0 million in FY74) was fully disbursed by February 1981. The Second
Highway Project (Credit 594-GH for US$10.0 million and Loan 1182-GH for
US$18.0 million in FY75) was completed in 1983. These two projects
achieved only mixed results. The Bank's combined audit report on both
projects noted that while the physical investments yielded acceptable
returns, the institutional objectives of these projects were only partly
met. The ongoing Third Highway Project (Credit 1029-GH for US$25.0
million, approved in FY80), is due to be completed by June 30, 1986. All
three projects financed assorted road construction works, and more
importantly, road maintenance operations and related institution building,
including support to domestic contractors. The most recent road project is
the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr.1601-GH), for which IDA
approved a US$40 million credit, with an additional US$10 million from the
Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa. This project addresses major



- 16 -
sub-sectoral issues and is supported by several cofinanciers. The credit
became effective in November 1985. In addition, a US$29 million credit for
a Railway Rehabilitation Project was approved in 1981 (Cr. 1170-GH). This
project is now making satisfactory progress, although it had experienced
many implementation problems and delays.
48.       More recently, the Bank provided four credits with transport
components. The Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC-I; US$40 million)
approved in June 1983, and already fully committed, provided US$18.7
million for imports of tires, spare parts and batteries, mainly for the
private road transport sector. The Export Rehabilitation Project (ERP;
Credit GH-1435 for US$76.0 million, approved in January 1984) provided
US$4.8 million for emergency assistance for ports, and US$4.3 million for
cocoa transport. Its companion project for Export Rehabilitation Technical
Assistance (ERPTA; Credit GH-1436 for US$17.1 million) includes US$0.9
million for technical assistance to the ports subsector. These projects
are all making good progress. Two other projects with transport components,
both approved during the latter part of FY85 are the Reconstruction Import
Credit II (RIC II, Cr.1573-GH) and the Accra District Rehabilitation Project
(Cr.1564-GH).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       The project was prepared with a Project Preparation Facility
Advance of US$1 million granted in September 1985. Negotiations were held
in Washington in January 1986; the Ghanaian delegation was headed by
Mr. R.K. Peprah, PNDC Secretary for Transport and Communications, and
included representatives from The Ministry of Transport and Communications,
Ghana Ports Authority and Takoradi Lighterage Company. Supplementary data
on the project are presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives
50.       The main project objectives are: (a) to rehabilitate the port
facilities in Tema and Takoradi, Ghana's only commercial ports, so as to
enable them to efficiently handle the country's export and import needs
during the immediate and medium term; and (b) to strengthen and reorganize
port management and port institutions in Ghana, in order to increase the
efficiency of the port subsector as a whole. Without the proposed project,
port efficiency would decline further, and the ports would be physically
unable to handle the increased traffic expected by about 1990, seriously
impairing the country's economic recovery. The project will build on the
emergency assistance being provided through the port components of the
ongoing ERP and ERPTA projects.
Project Description
51.       To assist in fulfilling the objectives, the project provides, for
the ports of Tema and Takoradi, financing for (a) port rehabilitation and
modernization: (i) repair and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure
and facilities; (ii) removal of sunken vessels and other wrecks;



- 17 -.
(iii) provision of container and roll-on/roll-off facilities at Tema;
(iv) provision of cargo handling equipment, communications and office
equipment and floating craft; and (v) repair of salvageable equipment; and
(b) institutional strengthening: (i) technical assistance to strengthen
management in the GPHA, including GPHA headquarters and port managements at
Tema and Takoradi; (ii) training program for port managers, staff and
skilled workers; and (iii) project supervision and coordination.
52.       Port Rehabilitation and Modernization.  In view of the serious
deterioration in the physical condition of the ports, most of the
investments in both ports would be for repairing infrastructure and for
rehabilitating or replacing facilities, while only a minor part of the
investment would be for creation of new facilities. The project would
provide financing for civil, mechanical and electrical works to repair
current infrastructure at both Tema and Takoradi, including works for
removal of sunken barges and other wrecks from the harbour areas of both
ports.   At Tema, a new container yard would be provided and a wharf area
rehabilitated to serve as a roll-on/roll-off ramp. Detailed design and
preparation of tender documents for civil engineering works have already
been substantially completed. Tender documents will be issued to
prequalified bidders in April 1986. In addition, cargo handling equipment
and floating craft will be provided to the two ports under the project.
The project will also include the repair of about ten shore cranes and two
tugs which can be salvaged. Preparation of specifications for the
equipment is under way, and tender documents will be issued in April 1986.
53.       Institutional Strengthening.  Apart from assisting in project
implementation, major objectives of the technical assistance and training
will be to build up Ghanaian capability to run the ports efficiently at the
end of the implementation period. The technical assistance will comprise,
in addition to a training program and project supervision assistance,
265 man-months of internationally recruited consultants to assist the
reorganized GPHA in various areas of port management. Spread over a period
of about three years, it includes line management positions and advisory
staff to help the GPHA head office and the Tema and Takoradi ports in port
management, operations, information system and tariff studies, and a
container operations advisor to assist the new container handling company
in Tema. Provision has also been made for consultants to prepare a
follow-up project and other miscellaneous studies. It has been agreed
during negotiations that (a) GPHA will appoint counterparts for all
technical assistance advisory positions before appointing the experts, and
(b) in the case of line management positions, a Ghanaian incumbent will be
appointed to take over from the expatriate expert, about six months before
the expiry of the expert's term of appointment, during which period the
expert will function as an advisor to the regular incumbent. Terms of
reference for the various positions, and a recruitment program for the
experts, were agreed during negotiations. GPHA has also agreed to finalize
before June 30, 1987, in consultation with the Association, the employment
terms for the container operations expert. The training program for
managers, staff and skilled workers will be integrated with the above
technical assistance over a three-year period, and will include assistance
for establishing a central training department at GPHA's head office and a



- 18 -
training division each at the ports of Tema and Takoradi. In addition to
GPHA personnel, the training program will cover the personnel of the two
private stevedoring firms operating in the ports, and other port-related
agencies. During negotiations, the proposed training arrangements and
terms of reference for the training experts were agreed with GPHA.
54.       Project Supervision and Coordination.  In order to strengthen
GPHA's project implementation capability, and to assist in coordination of
works with ongoing traffic operations, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
will be set up consisting of a Project Coordinator and a Procurement
Specialist financed under the project, and a senior project accountant and
other staff from GPHA dealing with project accounts, procurement and
engineering supervision. In addition, the project will provide engineering
consultants to supervise civil works in both ports; their work will be
coordinated by PCU. The PCU will also provide on-the-job training to
Ghanaian engineers and technicians on project supervision and procurement.
55.       Cost Estimates and Financing.  Estimated project costs, net of
taxes, are about US$78.8 million equivalent (including physical and price
contingencies) with a foreign exchange component of about US$72.3 million
equivalent, or 92 percent of project cost. Total cost including taxes is
US$95.8 million. Cost estimates for the various repair and rehabilitation
works are primarily based on detailed designs prepared by the consultants.
Costs have been estimated at the current official exchange rate of US$1:
t90. Estimated rates of inflation on foreign costs have been applied to
both foreign and local costs. This assumes that any persistent divergence
in foreign and local rates of inflation will be corrected by exchange rate
adjustments. This divergence, however, would not be significant for the
project as local components constitute only 8 percent of total costs.
Price contingencies are based on estimated foreign inflation of 7 percent
for 1986 and 1987, 7.5 percent for 1988 and 7.7 percent for 1989 and 1990.
56.       Project financing is expected to be provided to the Government
for onlending to GPHA by (i) OECF (US$29.2 million) covering most of the
equipment and floating craft; (ii) Saudi Fund (US$13.2 million) covering
civil works at Tema; (iii) EEC (US$8.6 million) covering civil works at
Takoradi; and (iv) IDA (US$24.5 million) for technical assistance,
training, project supervision, wrecks removal, civil works and equipment.
GPHA would provide US$3.3 million covering part of local costs for various
components. The Government agreed, during negotiations, to treat the
import taxes due on project imports (US$17.0 million equivalent) as a loan
to GPHA instead of GPHA being exempted from these taxes. External agencies
will cover all foreign costs and part of the local costs. The above
cofinancing arrangements are firm, but with the exception of OECF, are yet
to be 'ormally committed. The signing of the various cofinancing
agreements will be a condition of credit effectiveness. The proceeds of
the IDA credit will be onlent to GPHA at 10 percent interest with repayment
period of 20 years including 5 years of grace. The foreign exchange risk
will be borne by GPHA. Inflation currently is running at about 15 percent
on an annual basis, compared with 40 percent in 1984, and is expected to
decline further to 10 percent or below within the next two or three years.
An onlending agreement betweeu the Government and GPHA, satisfactory to the
Association, will be a condition of credit effectiveness.



- 19 -
Procurement
57.       Procurement decisions for all transactions under IDA financing,
in excess of US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to prior approval by
IDA. Project inputs and construction contracts financed by IDA will be
carried out through ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. Some civil
works in the ports of Tema and Takoradi, up to a combined total of US$1.0
million, and equipment up to a total of US$400,000, with individual
contracts not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent, may be procured using local
competitive bidding, advertised locally. These local procedures were
reviewed during negotiations and are acceptable to the Association. In
addition, spare parts and accessories which are of a proprietory nature,
financed by IDA, may be purchased, up to a maximum of US$400,000
equivalent, under directly negotiated contracts on terms satisfactory to
the Association. Procurement for project items financed by other
cofinanciers will be let in accordance with their respective guidelines and
conditions as parallel financing; the items under OECF financing are to be
procured under open international competitive bidding somewhat similar to
IDA guidelines. Consultancy services financed by the Association will be
procured following IDA guidelines. The tentative proposed procurement
arrangements are summarized as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement under the Project a/
(US$ Million)
Project Element                      Procurement Method
ICB          LCB          Other        Total
Cost
Port of Tema-works              8.8           0.5         14.1          23.4
(7.3)        (0.2)                      (7.5)
Port of Takoradi--works         5.2           0.5          8.7          14.4
(5.0)        (0.2)                      (5.2)
Removal of Wrecks               2.4                                      2.4
(2.4)                                   (2.4)
Equipr.ent and Materials       32.0           0.4          0.4          32.8
(2.8)        (0.4)         (0.4)        (3.6)
Tech. Assistance,                             0.3          4.5           4.8
Training & Proj.Superv.                    (0.3)        (4.5)         (4.8)
Refinancing PPF                                            1.0           1.0
(1.0)        (1.0)
Total Proje:ct                 48.4           1.7         28.7          78.8
7-   1  255 9  JI24.52
a! Amounts financed by IDA in parenthesis; costs exclude taxes.



- 20 -
58.       The rehabilitation works at Tema (US$23.4 million) will be
divided into three packages: one of about US$14.1 million to be financed by
the Saudi Fund (US$13.1 million) and GPHA (US$1.0 million) according to
Saudi Fund bidding procedures; a second, of about US$8.8 million, to be
financed by IDA (US$7.3 million) and GPHA (US$1.5 million) and procured on
the basis of IDA's ICB; and a third, of about US$0.5 million, to be
financed by IDA and GPHA and procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures. Similarly, Takoradi rehabilitation works
(US$14.4 million) will be divided into three packages: US$8.7 million
financed by the EEC following EEC procurement procedures; US$5.2 million to
be financed jointly by IDA (US$5.0 million) and GPHA (US$0.2 million)
following IDA's ICB procedures; and a third, for about US$0.5 million,
procured following local procedures and financed by IDA (US$0.2 million)
and GPHA (US$0.3 million).
Status of Preparation
59.       Detailed design and preparation of tender documents commenced in
July 1985 and bidding documents are expected to be issued in April 1986.
Civil and other works will start in October 1986. Procurement of floating
craft is scheduled to begin by December 1986 and that of cargo handling and
other equipment in early to mid-1987. The technical assistance in
conjunction with the reorganization of GPHA and its operations partly
st!:rted from September 1985, initially financed by the PPF advance.
Disbursements
60.       The Credit is expected to be effective by July 31, 1986 and the
project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1991; the proposed
closing date is March 31, 1992. The IDA credit will be disbursed against
various categories as follows, on the basis of estimated disbursement
schedule.
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category Description           IDA Amount    Percent Financed
(US$ million)
1. Works                            11.1    100 percent of foreign *axpenditures
85 percent of local expenditures
2. Removal of Wrecks                 2.1    100 percent of foreign expenditures
3. Equipment including vehicles,    3.2    100 percent of foreign expenditures
materials, spare parts                  90 percent of local expenditures
4. Technical Assistance,             4.0    100 percent
studies and training
5. Refinancing PPF Advance           1.0     Amount due
6. Special Account                    -      Authorized Allocation
7. Unallocated                       3.1
Total          24.5



- 21 -
61.       A revolving fund will be established for IDA funds in a Special
Account with a commercial bank authorized to deal in foreign currencies.
An advance of US$2.5 million from IDA funds will be made into the Special
Account after credit effectiveness upon request from the Borrower. The
Special Account will be replenished following applications for
reimbursement from GPHA together with supporting documents from the PCU, as
well as the commercial bank's monthly statements on the related Special
Account. Contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent and local training
programs approved by IDA may be disbursed on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOE). PCU will manage all accounting records of the revolving
fund and other project expenditures. To facilitate project financing, GPHA
has agreed to set up a Project Account in a commercial bank before
October 31, 1986, and to maintain in it, until project completion, a
minimum balance of US$100,000 equivalent in foreign currency and US$250,000
equivalent in local currency; the project account will be operated as a
revolving fund for project expenditures to be incurred by GPHA.
Financial Requirements
62.       The steady decline in traffic up until 1983 had substantially
deteriorated the overall financial condition of GPA. The reorganized GPHA
will continue to face financial difficulties at least in the short run. In
order to overcome these difficulties, GPHA is planning to follow a
two-phased approach under which it will gradually improve, attaining
financial recovery in the long term. To fulfill this objective, the
Borrower and GPHA agreed on the following during negotiations:
(a) In the short term (1986 to 1989), all necessary measures would be
taken to absorb inflationary cost increases and to generate funds
sufficient to cover operating costs, maintenance and
administrative costs, and interest charges on loans, and in the
long term (beyond 1989), actions would be taken to increase
tariffs to generate cash sufficient to cover all operating costs
including adequate regular repairs and maintenance, debt service
charges or depreciation on revalued assets, whichever is higher,
and make a reasonable contribution to justified renewal and
expansion investments. In addition, GPHA, before November 30 of
each fiscal year, would provide the Association, for review and
comment, its plan to increase tariffs in the following year as
necessary to achieve the above financial objectives.
(b) Subject to general guidance of the Government, GPHA's Board of
Directors will be given libertj to adjust tariffs as necessary to
meet the agreed objectives.
(c) Unless otherwise agreed by the Association and excepting the
debts to be incurred as per the proposed project, GPHA: (i) will
not incur any other debt of more than one year maturity during
the implementation period (up to 1990), and (ii) thereafter, will
not incur debts of more than one year maturity if the net
operating revenue of GPHA for the fiscal year or the
12 consecutive months immediately before the date of incurrence,
whichever is greater, will be less than 125 percent of the



- 22 -
maximum debt service charges of any succeeding fiscal year on
total debts of GPHA, including the debt to be incurred.
(d) GPHA's fixed assets will be revalued at least every four years
beginning 1986 and annual cost indexing will be used for the
years between revaluations. The results of these revaluations
will be certified by qualified auditors and will be regularly
incorporated in the balance sheet.  The Association will be
provided up to 1994 with full reports on revaluations, for review
and comment; and
(e) GPHA would improve its billing system and its credit policy, and
the level of accounts receivable relative to total operating
revenues would be adjusted to 33 percent in 1988, 25 percent in
1989 and 1990, and not more than 20 percent thereafter.
Accounting and Auditing
63.       The accounting and auditing systems under the GPA have been
satisfactory; however, there have been delays in completing annual accounts
and audit, and GPHA's agreed action plan presents a timetable for
completing pending annual accounts and audits. Consultants are helping
GPHA to set up and codify new accounting and auditing procedures. During
negotiations, GPHA's agreement was obtained to engage qualified independent
auditors acceptable to the Association for the timely audit of GPHA
accounts, including the Special Account and amounts withdrawn on the basis
of SOEs. The audit report together with the management letter will be
furnished to the Association not later than five months after the end of
fiscal year. Agreement has also been obtained that GPHA will submit to the
Association GPA's 1982 audit report by March 31, 1986, and 1983 and 1984
audit reports by June 30, 1986; in any case, submission of these audit
reports is a condition for credit effectiveness.
Project Benefits and Economic Return
64.       The project will enable GPHA to handle the expected traffic with
much greater efficiency than is possible at present, producing considerable
economic benefits. The main project benefits will be: {i) savings in
ship-time in ports, by reducing service time and waiting time; (ii) savings
to cargo owners from reduced damage to cargo and improved port handling in
general; and (iii) general economic benefits to the country by making its
import and export traffic movements through the ports physically feasible
and efficient. Excluding benefits from (iii) which are difficult to
quantify, the project investments will yield an estimated economic rate of
return (ERR) of 27 percent for Tema, 29 percent for Takoradi and 28 percent
for both ports together. This reflects the high level of project benefits
from avoiding port congestion that will occur in the absence of the
project, with expected increases in traffic. Major individual components
have been separately evaluated and are found each to yield ERR exceeding
20 percent. Sensitivity analysis shows that the estimated ERR for the
total project will be above 20 percent even under the following restrictive
assumptions: (a) port efficiency will not deteriorate below current levels



- 23 -
in the absence of the project; (b) actual traffic growth will be only half
of what is assumed in the base case, i.e.,the projected 1990 traffic level
will be reached only by about 1995; and (c) actual efficiency improvements
will be only half of what is assumed for the base case.
Project Risks
65.       Main project risks relate to transitional problems arising from
the proposed reorganization of port agencies, including formation of the
new container handling company, and the attitude of the 7,800-strong labor
and staff towards these changes and towards achieving the proposed
productivity increases. Steps have been taken in project design and prepa-
ration to minimize any adverse impact these factors may have on project
implementation and productivity improvements. These steps include (i) a
gradual and phased approach in implementing organizational and financial
reforms; (ii) full participation of labor and other related interests who
agreed with most of the proposed reforms during the project appraisal
process, and Government's full commitment to implement these reforms;
(iii) introduction of incentive wage systems and food aid for the workers;
and (iv) strengthening of port management and its project implementation
capability through technical assistance, training and supervision support
under the proposed project and under interim arrangements financed by ERPTA
and the PPF. Moreover, sensitivity analysis shows that even if
productivity gains and traffic increases were only one-half of what is
assumed, the project would still yield reasonable economic returns.
Overall, project risks appear moderate and acceptable.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 3, 1986



-24 -                                              ANNM    I
A A       L    h                                  ?a ;   1  of  6
CGHN                   - SUCIAL INDICATOS  DWITA 531
CHAN                                 RIFKENC   GRoan (CIITEl An       ) b 1.
IOS1                    (3425?C(ST    KUTDIAU)J A
IgooLk.    alk.d NdmCEI          LOW IsCS AFRIA            061801*13I014
ESTaiIT&o         5MN Or SAHARA        ARICA, 5. uP SA5ARA
a (#l so. 1r)
TOTAL                              238.5       238.3      238.5
AGCICBLTURAL                        62.3       43.4        42.2
S   ME  CAITA (Co)                      ..         ..         10.0              23".5                   1063.5
EXMT WEECDII PER CAPITA
(CILOWAS OP OIL U)WALEIIT)          71.0       100.0      160.0               62.3                    151.5
imuans A unL tyAnmt
POPULATIN.NlD-IAR  (TrIUSA)    6532.0        5620.0    12UI.0
U1l POPMIATION CZ OP OTAL)          23.3       29.1        35.1               20.1                     32.0
PoPnnATlON IROZECC101S
POPULATION IN YEA  2000 (MILL)                           23.1
STATIONARY POPULATION CNILL)                             64.0
POULATIN  NTUI                                           2.0
POPULATIO  sum
PER SQ. o1.                       28.6       36.1        53.7               33.2                     63.1
PS SQ. In. SEl. LAND             109.7      1A0.3      1397.               112.6                    124.6
POPUIATION AGE STRUCTURI CZ)
0-14 UIS                         44.5        45.7       47.9               46.0                     4566
15-6  RS                         52.8        51.5        48.6              50.1                      53.5
65 AMD ASDVE                       2.5         2.6        2.4                2.9                      2.7
POPUL ATIO GOWrR   UT CI)
TOrAL                              4.4         2.3        3.1                2.                       2.
pOAt                               9.2         4.6        1.0                6.4                      5.1
cRam  5131 RATE (in TurnS)          50.2       50.2        49.3               47.2                     47.0
C02U8  DUAU MUT (PER THOUS)         17.3       14.3        30.0               17.8                     15.0
Caoss IRWODIeT  IO tTA               3.5        3.4         3.4                3.3                      3.2
FAMILY P1.531MG
ACaT0hS. ANMAL (1tTHOUS)           .          8.3        33.5 A
aasrs tT OF HARIE urn)             ..         1.5        10.0 .             3.3                       6.4
NM AND smm
INDEX or FOD I-ROD. P CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       93.0      101.0        63.0               33                       32.9
in CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAoumS (I OF RSQUIUNS)            97.0       97.0        69.0               87.7                     *6.5
PROTUDIS (GRAMS PER OAT)         46.0        50.0        40.0               51.9                     55.4
Or 1R51  eMa AND PULSE           13.0       17.0        15.0 .s            18.7                     lO.5
CotUD (AtS 1-4) DETH RATE           25.6       21.4        12.0              23.1                      16.6
tIE OXPEC. AT 313T3 (CEARS)         48.5       53.2        58.9              47.8                      52.0
IANrT ET. RAZE (P  THOUS)         143.0       122.0        97.0             119.5                     10.
ACCESS TO SAN WAITR (ZPOP)
TOTAL                              ..        35.0        47.0 A            27.1                      42.4
UR                                ..          6.0        72.0              63.5                      61.5
RUsA                               .          14.0       33.0               19.3                     35.3
ACCESS TO ECRX DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPUlATION)
TOTAL                              ..        550         27.0 le           26.5                     2.9
N                                  ..        92.0        47.0              65.4                      57.7
RURAL                              ..        40.0        37.0              20.8                      20.7
POPLATION PE" PYSICIA            21690.0    12920.0      7340.0           27901.7                  jl7*7
POP. PER NURSING PErSO            5410.0 /f   1070.0      770.0 Jj         330B.4                    2459.5
POP. rin msTmaL mU
TOTAL                   3~290.0     760.0       lAto             1273.6                     981.1
UNAN                            290.0 /f   770.0        530.0 le          420.2                     3".3
RURAL                          47390.0      890.0       730.0  j         3292.5                    4371.9
ADMISIONS PER HSPITAL  m             ..         ..          ..                ..                       27.2
AVERSE SUEz or HOSEIIL0
TOTAL                              ..         4.7
0855                               ..         ..          .                  ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE N0. OF PERSONS/NOON
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..         ..          .                  ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
PERCITACC OF WMPLINS WI  310T.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
UR                                ..          ....
sAL                               ..          ..



-25-                                                   A
T A _    L E 3t                                   P%% 22 of 6
CHANA                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUSET
GUANA                                 REVERENCE CiOUPS (IIIINED AVERAES) 
MHOST                     (ODST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT          LAW INCOME AFRICA         MIDDLE INCCME
19i1ot      19700- ESTIMAITlb         SOUTN OF SAHAR        AFRICA S. O  SAHARA
UDAToN
ADJUSTED ENROLtNENT RATIOS
PRIKARY:  TOTAL                     38.0        64.0        76.0               67.6                       95.7
HALE                    52.0        73.0         85.0               77.6                     100.0
FEMALE                  25.0        54.0         66.0               54.9                      83.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    5.0         14.0        34.0               13.5                       17.3
HALE                     9.0        21.0         42.0               17.9                      25.0
FEMALE                   3.0         8.0        26.0                 9.1                      14.8
VOCATIONAL (S OF SECONDARY)            3.3        23.3         1.9               13.2                        5.9
PUPIL-TCEACER RATIO
PRhNAY                             31.0         30.0        31.0               44.9                       41.1
SECONDARY                          16.0 /L      17.0        22.0               27.4                      25.5
CONSIUPTION
PASSENCER CARSI/TOUSAND POP           3.0          4.6         6.8 /c             3.d                       2U.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         42.8         81.6       170.9               55.8                     107.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             0.1 /h       l .Y        5.9                2.6                       20.8
NEUSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             29.9         58.0        30.9 /d             5.0                       18.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       1.6          2.2         0.4 7;9            0.5                       0.4
LAI  FORM
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (THOUS)           Z931.0       3424.0      *522.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   42.6        42.1         41.3               34.2                      36.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              64.0         58.0        53.0 Ie            77.5                       54.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.0        17.0         20.o 7T             9.7                       18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.9        39.7        35.6               39.3                       36.8
HALE                               50.0        46.6         42.1               50.9                      47.1
FEMALE                             36.0         33.0        29.4               28.1                      27.2
ECONOMIC DQPENDENCY RATIO             1.1          1.2         1.4                1.3                        1.3
NM~ DISRIUInO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED NY
NIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS
HICHGEST 20Z OF NOUSENOLDS
LOWEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40Z OF HOUSEHOLDS
POERYTT TTHE GROUPS
ESTIIUTED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LLVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                      307.0 1i           165.5                     590.7
RURAL                                                      150.0 o?            95.0                     275.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVe POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URIBAN                                                     156.0 I            113.1                      545.6
RUMAL                                                      130.07o             67.6                     201.1
ESTD(ATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                                                          36.6
RURAL                                                                          61.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T S 5
/a   The greip averages for each indicator are population-tm_ghced aritbcetic manns.  bveragp of coauntries
_ang the Indicator, depend. on availability of dats and ls not imiforu.
/b   UnleC otbexwise noted. "Data for i960" refer to a*  year beteen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and date for "Mot lecent Esctmte" beteen 1981 and 1983.
/c   1977; /d 1979:  /a 1980;  If 1962; _& Public education only; A   1964; A  1978.
JUNE. 1985



-26-                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DKFlNTfO    OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Na: Ah_bo  th data ae drawn from sums geelly judgd the moat ounhoriurlv: and rdiab, it od  alo be nowd that thy may nmc belintenatiolly
cmpuarabe m of dte lack of s4sdadied denWtion and conepta used by dice  countries in colecting di dasL The data re, nonetel, usful to
descrb orer of eaglude indicate trends and chaacterie cerai major dferen between coutriL
The erene group are (1) the move country pmp of die subjet counsty ad (2) a country group with somewat limer averae Ime thn the coumtry
goup of thebjet coutry (ccept foro Higb Incom Oil Expores"proup where Middle Income Nortb Ari. end Middle Ei' is chose bemue of onger
.oeiocnhunr a)mities). In bte  sce goup data the  cages are popubtion weitd aridthntic scam fr ech indaor and shown only wbha majrity
orthe e ntries in*agop ba data ror that indicao Sc the coveeo rcountris mong dhe indicators depedson die avilability ofdau and is not uniform.
caution must hec ecesed in ting aveges oone idicat to another e averavgs ae only useful In comparing die value oaone indictor at a time among
tih cory  nd ree roupL
AREA (thouand sq.km.)                                         Crude BRI  Rate (per tshusd)-Number or five births in the year
Tae-Total surface area comprising land area and inanid waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 19S3 data.                                     Cue Deh Rate (per thousaud)-Nurnber of deaths in the year
Apieulewar-Estimae of agriuturl area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.
pemanenty for crops, pastures market and kitchen gardens or to  Grass Repedwtiou Rare-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960,1970 and 1982 data.                          wil bear in her nonnal reproductive period ir she cxperiences
present age-specific fertiity rates usually five-ycar averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by sme conversion method as World   F.my Phiu-Aeeeplors, Amsa (thossds)-Annual num-
Bak Atlas (19814-3 basis); 1983 data.                         ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of nationm
ENERGY CONSUMPFFON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning program.
consumption of owmmerial primary energy (coal and lignite.    Faify Plaumig-Uuers (perent ofrsed m        )-The pee-
petroeum, natural gas and bydro-. nuclear and geothermal dcec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms or oil equivalknt per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                    or child-bearing age ar generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VrrAL SATLIM CS                                groups-
rTon PopS MiMC, Mid-Yew (tbommdr)-As of July 1:1960.1970.     FOOD AND NUTRION
and 1983 data.
Index of Feed Pradaetia Per Capit (I1969- 71 - IW)-I-ndex of per
Urhs Populate (percel of total)-Ratio of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population, different definitions of urban arcas may affect compar-  cldudes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among counties; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of supr)
popuatie. PReectios                                           which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popurduion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. puls, oil seeds.
made for each economy scparately. Starting with information on  vcegtables, fruits, nuts, sugarmane and sugar best :ivestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980, these parameters  on national averagc producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at fire-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.           Per COp  Supply ofCaloris (percent qfraq-uhewtsl-Coput-
Statienry poprdaion-ls onc in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taity rates have not changed over a long period. while ag-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simuluaneously remained at replacment level    tion. imports ess exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population, the birth rate is    exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements werc
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nornal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacment level.                                     waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popudation Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to  Per Capita Supply of Protein (par   per dey)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved, that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries establshed by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the ycar t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the utimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be aniral protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
PoifJda;o D q                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkn-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supplr. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.              Per Capita Pete  Suipply From Aus and Fiste-Protei supply
Per sq.km. agricudtural lard-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Pepuhsdau Age Structure (percensf-Children (0-14 years). work-  Child (ages 1-f4 Deat Rate (per thoasaud)-Number of deaths a!
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popuai  Growth Rate (perceatmj-eeal-Annual growth rates of    from life tables; 1960.1970 and 1983 dat.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Population Gswsme Rate (perceat)-arhs--Annual growth rates    Life Erpectawy at Birth (yearsJ-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-27 -                                        ANN  I
Page 4 of 6
at tbe time or of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pad-:eaeehr Ratio - prhioy. and sjecodry-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data,                                     roiled in primary and secondary evel divided by numbes of
1 a_ Manslty Rate (per thossam)-Number of infants who die    teachrs in the corresponding kvels.
before rcaching one year of age per thousand live births in a gvcn
ycar 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPON
rto            Ww      e                                      Pasenger C-t (pe tAJ-ad p.m C            o_-4assengr car com-
n IsNbr of people (totL un    a    ru    with rnone           prise motor crs seating kw than eight personu excludes ambul-
ae  to mfe wate rupply (mdudes tmted owfarwater or  *nccs. bearse an mlitary vebicle
unated but uncontaminated water such as that frt prtected rRa  Rcdes (pe dhasdpepalto-AI types of rcvers
boreoless, sprnp and sanitary wls) as percentages of hir respec-  for radio broadcsts to geeral public per thousand orpopulation;
dve populations. In a urban ara a ptbhic fountain or sandpost  excudes un-icesed rcciver in counties and in years when
loated not mosr than 2Omeaces from t hou may be conided       registration of radio sets was in effect. data or recent yars may
as being within  reasonable aemss of that house. In rural areas  not be cormparble since most countries abolished licens.
reasonable accs swould imply that the houewire or mmnbers of the
housebold do not have to spend a disroportonate pan of the day  TYReros (rpr sr_sdpepdsta-TV receivas for broadcst
in fetching the fiunly's water needs.                         to genera public per thousand popublaon: excludes unlicensed TV
in fechinithe ain_'stfler neds,receivrs in countries and in years when regiation of TV sets was
Accea to Excrete Dupal (pre   ifdetteal,  ho,                 *
ad ,xel-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) erved by  m  .
excreta diposl as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspee CGaoim (per trhsa_dpapmlltion)s-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the collection and disposal, with or  age ciulaton or "daily general interest newspaper. defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  pcriodical pubhcation devoted pnmarily to mcording general news
borne systems or the use of pit privics and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily' if it appars at least four tmnes a wek.
per PApdeiam-lpulation divided by number of pnu>     Cinema AnDm   Attendane pw CWba per Yer-Based on the
tising physcians qualified from a medical school at university kvel.  number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
pafi  pavsira PersaN-Fbpulation divided by number of          drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male  nd female graduate nurses, assistant nurss.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
per  Hospird Bed-i d, oitoa6 aei rarateFlopulation   Total Lorw Force (Ihoasuads)-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban, and nual) divided by their  specive numnber of  duding armed forces and unempbyed but exduding bouwwi
hospital beds available in public sand private, genemal and sedi~  students. etc.. coveng population of a  ages. Definitions m
hospitals and    ilitatbon coztes Hospitals are establihments  vanous countries are not comparabk: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at least onc physician. Establishmts prov Fa      (peet)-lFemale labor force as percntagc of total labor
iding principally cusodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals.    force.
however, inlude healdth and medil centers not permanently staffed  A,grimk: (prJenrJ--Labor formc in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medial assistant. nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of totd labor force 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer inhpatint accommodaton and provide a limited rang  data.
of medical faciit                                            Ind-tsy rperearJ-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
AdAusion per Hosp*al Bed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and eectricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pau in Rare (perMea)-4ot;a mak. srdfiml-r           ation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male. and female labor force
Ar.q      e  of Haue    (pas-r p-    s      )    r -f*  hb,   as percenges of total. male and female population or all ages
Adawal-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data- These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger mav or  partcipaton rates reflcting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few cstimates are from national sours
Awee Nisher of Per"s per Reom-sr     ad, whe,  and rwd-       Econonde Dependency Rati-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-pemanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pere of Dens with SerEk           -ol. whoa, ad ya-           Peeme of Tetad ODispoab   ne   (hoth in cash  Adid)-
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rmral dwelings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4srmed Ewo_lLmr Res                                          The following esimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prflmary school - total. male and 1rm  os  total, mal         levels. and sbould be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary kvel as percentages of  ErcnaedAhsolte Poemy In1me Lewd  (USper cpita) -criw
respective primary school-ag populations. Wbile many countries  amd rral-Absolute poverty income lvel is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-1l years, others do not. The  belowv which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country praccs in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordablk.
are delected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esmted Reaie Poerty Irncm   Lead (USE per capira)-ch_n
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent simce some  ad raral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupis are below or above the counzry's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural levvd with adjustment for higher cost of
Sconry sdhool - rotal, mak and femal-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  bEuawmred Pop.l.r fio lisd, ABsolste Poverty Incoe Leve (per-
mary instcution; provides general. vocational, or teacher training  cear)-wrs ad twal- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence cou-e are   -y exduded.
Vocarinall Enrolbni (percent of secondnry)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical, industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indendently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EC nAmS
GNP PER CAPTTA IN 1984: US$350 1/
GROSS NATIIACL PRUDCr IN 1984 1/                                            ANIWAL RAM  OF GROWTH
(Z constant Price)
cei Mil.              _                   1979-84
GDP at Nhrket Prices                     287,507             100.0                   -2.0
Gross Dnmrstic Iwvestmmt                  21,068              7.3                    -5.9
Gross National Saving                     13,267              4.6                   -14.7
Cbrrent Accont Balance                     7,801              2.7
Export of Goods, NES                      21,356              7.4                   -10.4
Import of Goods, NFS                      28,911             10.1                    -8.7
Urmr AND IABO   l
Qutput in 1984                       Labor Force, 1983
Cedis FE1.             Z              N1M.        Z
Agricu1lture                              141,904              51.3            2.584       57.2
-Irzctry                                   23,434               8.5            0.691       15.3
Services                                  111,150              40.2            1.242       27.5
CiCP at Factor Cost                       276,488             100.0            4.517      100.0
GEW  FDACE
1983                           1984
GedisHli.     Z ofGDP 2/       CGdis Ma      Z of GP 2/
Total Revemie and Grants                   10,241          5.3           22,641           7.9
Total Ecpenditure and Net lending          15,178          7.9           27,485           9.6
Overall Deficit (-)                        -4,937        -2.6            -4,844          -1.7
MIEE, CRarr AND PRICES 3/
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982   1983    1984
NMoey and Quasi-woney            3,044   5,131   5,942   7,949  12,029  14,837 20,803  31,962
Bank Credit to Pbblic Sector     3,203   5,636   6,537   8,480  14,043  17,140 29,392  41,747
Bank Credit to Private Sector      560     739     796     940   1,342   1,558  2,838   5,978
(Percentages or I¢x  NIuers)
Money and Quasi-money as Z of GDP   27.3    24.4    21.1    19.4    15.7    16.7    9.8    11.1
General Price Index (1977-100)   100.0   173.1   267.3   401.2   868.6  1062.4 2367.4 3,307.3
1/ Staff Fsthastes.
i/ Ratios are calailated on a recently revised (MP series.
3/ Fro IES



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
GHAN
BALANCE F PA     'S                                    MAwMISE MUMS tAVELAGE 1980-84)
1983     1984 1/
zm$ M -iZ                                       US$ M11io     %
Trade Bale                     -100     -102           Cocoa Beans & Products      458.2       66.9
Bports f.o.b.                 439      566           Gold                        134.0       19.6
Imporcs c.i.f.                539      668           Residual Oil                 32.9       4.8
Tizber                       24.3       3.5
wiibles (Net)                 -130      -113           VIectrilIcy                  13.0       1.9
services                    -147      -186            agnse                        7.2        1.0
kraiufers                      17       73           Diamud                        5.6       0.8
All Otber Goods              10.1       1.5
OCrrent Bal                   -230      -215
Total                       685.3     100.0
Caital kots
annts                          72       141
Official Capital (Net)         28       88           fffEKMAL DEBT, DEBDM   1984
Private Capital (Net)          14      -12
Capital n.e.s. 2/            -127     -123                                                US$ Miu.
OveraU Balance 2/              -243     -121           Total Outstanding and
Disbursed MbLT                     1.122.4
Arrears Payments               -34       -61
Gross br:ernatioal
Reserves (Bnd of Period) 3/   217      393
DEBT SEVICE RATIO FER 1984 4/           1
February 1973 - JUne 18, 1978                          Total Outstanding and
US$1 = 01.15                                    Disbursed MELT                        29.3
Total Cutstanding and
Since Aug. 26, 1978,  US$1  - 0 2.75                    DMsbursed inc. payment arrears        39.3
Since April 21, J983, Us$1  - 024.69
Since Oct. 10, 1983,  US$1  - 030.00                   IDB/MA, LErDIIG (Jume 30, 1985)
Since h     25. L984, US$1  - 035.00
Since August 25, 1984, US$1  - 038.50                                               IEW       ID&
Since Decesber 3, 1984,US$1  - 050.00
Since April 19, 1985, US$1  - 053.00          Crgtdin  & Dibursed                  122.31   206.56
Since August 12, 1985, US$1  - 057.00                  Undisbursed                   5.80   178.86
Since Oct. 7, 1985,   US$1  - 060.00                    ustCaing, incl.
Since Jan. 11, 1986   US$1  - 090.00                         sed                   128.11   385.42
1/ Prodlsnal estimtes subject to chage.
2/    ndes errors and adssims .
3t 1 T    fg DId at niLcml vlaticmi
4/ As Z Of eorts of gsD  and inn-factor services (e1xxes   hort-ter  debt).
Febury 1986



-30 -
*                                                                                       PR   II
TE SA. OF Ba  GW  CFERAT]U  IN Q1ANA 1/
SEAMUMN  OF BANK IANS AlD MA CEEDflS (As of December 31, 1985)
ltan or                                                         Amomt (S$ffll1on)2/
Credit  FPscal                                                  Less Cace3lation
Number   Year      Borrower                Poe                 Bak MA Uisbursed 3/
Ten laws and thirteen cedits fully diabursed                   189.7 107.4
90-Q   1979       Repblic of £ia    Second NIB                       19.0     2.0
1009-    180       Republic of Giana  Volta RegLm Ag.Dev.            29.5    21.6
1029-GH  1980      Rep3blic of Ghana  Third Hihway                   25.0      1.6
1170-G   1981      Republic of Guana  Raibay                         29.0    12.2
1327-Qi  1983      Republic of Giana  Recostru ction dM10             9.3      9.5
1342-GH  1983      Republic of Ghana  Water 9upply                   13.0      5.8
1373-QG  1983      Republic of Qina  Ehergy Project                  11.0      8.1
1393-QI  1983      Republic of Glana  Reconsttion leport Cr.         40.0      6.9
1435-GH  1984      Repubplc of Ghana  Export Rehabilitation          40.1    33.9
F009-GI  1984      Republic of Qahna  Ekport Rehabilitati-n          35.9    32.0
1436-CR   1984     Reapblic of GhnnRa  Eport Rehablitation.
Tecbmncal Assist-ree         17.1    11.6
1446-CH  1984      Republic of Guana  Petroleun Refinery Rehab.
and Technical Assistance       6.9     5.6
1498-GH  1984      Republic of Ghana  Second Oil Faln                25.0    23.2
1!64-Q   1985      Republic of GQina  Accra District RePib.          22.0    22.9
1573-GR   1985     Republic of Qisra  Seccni Reconstruction
Imports Credit               50.0    45.5
AO03-C   1A85     Republic of G_ana  Second Recoestruction
luports Credit               27.0    27.0
1601-CR   1985     Republic of Ghana  Road RPeabiitation and
Maintaunmce                  40.0    41.4
A01-QI  1985       Republic of GQia  Road BRhbilittatimn and
Mainteuance 41               10.0    10.0
1628-CH   1986     Republic of GQana  PNmwr Systen
Rehabilitatio  4/            28.0    28.0
Total                                      189.7 595.2  348.8
of wtxich has been paid                     66.8   4.7
Total rw  outstanding                      122.9 590.5
Amount sold                  0.4
of utdih has been repaid    0.4             0.0   0.0
Total nvheld by Bank & IDA                 122.9  590.5
Total zudisbursed                              0  348.8 348.8
1/  The status of the project listed in this part is described in a separate report on all
EBMW  IDM-financed projects in execution, Adhih is updated twice yearly and drxlated
to the Esacutive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
21  Prior to excha dje dsostnents.
3/  Cadlcuated at the exchange rate applicable on December 31, 1985.
_/  Nbt yet effective as at Decemier 31, 3985.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare
project                 :    7 months (September 1984 to April 1985)
(b)  Project prepared by            Ghana Port Authority
'c)  Date of appraisal mission:    May 1985
Cd) Date of completion
of negotiations              January 1986
Ce) Planned dace of
effectiveness                July 1986
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness:
(i) Establishment of new container company with majority
participation for private sector (para. 41);
(ii) Signing of cofinancing agreements (para. 56);
(iii)  Execution of an onlen4ing agreement between the Government and
GPHA (para. 56);
(iv) Submission by GPEA of all past due audit reports (para. 63);
(b) Other Conditions:
(i) Government to allow port agencies to retain a minimum of
20 percent of their foreign exchange earning to meet maintenance
and rehabilitation needs (para. 39);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii  '-resent 25 percent share of stevedoring operations held by two
private firms to be reinforced and maintained up to end-1989
followed by an increasea private sector role in port operations
from January 1990 onwards (para. 41);
(iii) GPHA to implement an Action Plan covering various operational and
management improvements (para 43);
(iv) Completion of consultant study on simplifying customs and port
documentation procedures and preparation of an implementation
program and timetable (para. 44);
tv)  Government and GPHA to take necessary measures to increase
tariffs, using a two-phased approach (para. 62); and
(vi)   GPHA to restrict future debt incurrence, revalue its fixed
assets, improve its billing system and credit policy, and adjust
level of accounts receivable relative to total operating revenue
(para. 62).



IBRD  18484R1
3D                    T                     1<                    0"                     16
BURKINA FASO
'a                       -                          t- I fi;PRimoiwGHANA
if o ,   4  >   , !             ADMINISTRATIVE AND
' I >, EGIO                                TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
4    UPPER WEST        °g                          ' 
REGION    K    J                          '\
,~~~~                                          K.n.)             )
k~~~~ ~~~ ' f                                        ?    OuIg   / 
NORTHERN   RoaGIo ',GION                           C5
Primary Roadis
Mimlor Secondary Roads
. V                                     Othe' Seconddry Roads
V                                              L                     @   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Region Headquarters
:OAS T                  Bob y              ko    National Capital
:O ST   \ ) . - ./    '-t   ,tO^"       - iRegion BoundaRies
-  J  /  /                                      International Boundaries-
If''               E    C -             R_C-(CN          -     ih   
!   -                                                            w                         Ports-, 
+4e~~~~~~~ '          C A" .              Ei l       -\ 0    ~
10
|   ,  S:r,:j.- A,   o                   m r              TOGOr
: {>so~~~~~ w~,                          KO'OI0A                  1*
krKb' -        (W8O?E     i..h 'T             banduA,/'^
>'  -E I"- +               '-k'    1                                'To
NpWo    //                      *
Aqno Takorad.                                           
0  20  40  o0  80 KILOMETERS
TI wA b. rnd by Tt.I.M.* aria Sd  b'_ lie  we. d
.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~amc ew ? daolMUm  dwabn0 Mcmi - e -  A
0- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   O3
Obr  J.-ANbR   1986
N    *     drrr _ i _ r
SIZ   r                                                                          A k-7 
WESTERN, ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     JAURY18



i ''  /ei 
U,: !XN



GHANA
! i.\\8xj   t-:-:   ;                                                                 PORTS REHABILITATION I
i' RGO H-ANCcWGoo    -    FaPROPOSED  PROJECT WORKS AT
ANDEPOI nD WOUSIOP   .
Facilities to be a
*-A_    Wreck Locations
Existing Roads
Exitsting Railroods
;    1!; :   ":   o°20&                  \                                                             Security Fence
e \  COMMERCIAL
~~    ~       AND
INDUSTRIAL                     CIj
AREA                         _R  E
CML ENGINEEMIN      C--          aAf                                           9
OFECES AND WORKSOPS                        '
OIL STORAGE
-'-aANIC.L AN ELECTRICA                         C                       '
ENGINEERIG-                    i]___
OFFICIES AND WORKSHOPS
STATE W :RIEIOU               I3
AiMINISTRI                                                                                       ENRTHG
OFFICE                                                                                                       E  T.~     ---
:         \  .                     s)    . ~\ 
\i'       ~        ~~~ C.t,,,        
x    -
_~~~~
>1.
N>    ADNWNGThTJI
~~~7)  ~~~~~~~~~q ~~~MARINE ~V11ORKOP
T                                        _                                                      MAIN BREAKWATER



IBRD 1'
GHANA                                                                      Kumosi
*S REHABILITATION PROJECT
-D PROJECT WORKS AT TAKORADI
Facilities to be Rehabilitated
t~     Wreck Locations                                                                                            Koforiduo
_    _    Existing Roads
Existing Railroads
*  *  *  Security Fence                                                                                                          -         .1
-q          Embaonknent                                                                                                                     e
RA
BURKONA      -
-EMain Roads                8 /GFANti
_Tokoradi                      ini.maiio.i Boundaries         0
Gulf of Guinea                                             AUie
LEE BREAKWJATER
BERThf4   BET5            BET6         -
A    6
r~~~~~~~~~- We 
0     .--            2D          3          400         500 maw
-4 BREAKWATER
ltls mmnas INS own gvawe by its vRI 8910ilE me dw*w.,M fo VW cGs  of
ONs 'e9S d a    *   r Imer ftr vwneI use fs Ht ta3l 8 n Wle 5No n t.1f
FrM.e CtW Aoa The deIwma&" Ud SWd M1w%t-es Stu an VW SW dO m1dt
,'*. m me W 0o Te VrrM ad. end rw 8k 9 F.,mn Fn-  Cv-opaIm .9. m
l ikWu es. d1V Ievnf. v K e di9 r   i     . of    h Ilox%bmS
OCTOBER s c



