Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C R.P7Y Q5'
Report No. 5907-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 3, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency UTnit = cedi ¢
US$1.0 = 90 cedis
1 9 = UIS$O.011
US$(1.094 ) = SDR 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
I meter (m)              =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)      =      10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)       =      35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                0 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) =      0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)         =      2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DFR       -    Department of Feeder Roads
DUR       -    Department of Urban Roads
EEC       -    European Economic Community
EDF       -    Economic Development Fund of EEC
ERP       -    Export Rehabilitation Project
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
ERTAP     -    Export Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance
Project
GCHC      -    Ghana Cargo Handling Company
GHA       -    Ghana Highway Authority
GPA       -    Ghana Ports Authority
GPHA      -    Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority
GRC       -    Ghana Railway Corporation
IDA       -    Tnternational Development Association
MIS       -    Management Information System
MOTC      -    Ministrv of Transport and Communications
MRH       -    Ministry of Roads and Highways
OECF      -    Overseas/Economii  Cooperation Fund, Japan
PCU       -    Proiect Coordination Unit
PPF       -    Project Preparation Facility of IDA
RIC       -    Reconstruction Import Credit
RRMP      -    Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
SF        -    Saudi Fund
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditure
STC       -    State Transport Corporation
TEIT      -    Twenty-foot equivalent units (containers)
TLC       -    Takoradi Lighterage Company
UNDP      -    UTnited Nations Development Programme
WFP       -    World Food Program
WAPT1
March 1986



GHANA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ........      .........................   i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY .....................................  ii
I. INTRODUCTION .    ............................................   1
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .........     ............................   1
A.   The Transport System .........      ............................   1
B.   The Ports Subsector ..........     ............................   3
C.   Transport Sector Issues ........      ..........................   7
D.   Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector .... .......  8
*           III. THE PROJECT . ..............................................   8
A.   Project Objectives and Scope .............................   8
B.   Project Description ..........     ............................   9
1. General ...........................................  9
2. Port Rehabilitation and Modernization ............. 10
3. Institutional Strengthening ....................... 10
C.  Cost Estimates and Financing ............. ................  12
D.   Implementation and Present Status of Project       . .    14
E.   Procurement ..............................................  15
F.   Disbursements      ............................................  16
G.   Reporting ................................................  17
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................................... 18
A.   Present Traffic and Future Projections .18
B. Project Benefits .18
C.   Econamic Returns and Sensitivity .19
D. Project Risks .19
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION .20
A.   Past and Present Financial Performance .20
B.   Financial Objectives and Forecast Financial Performance ..  20
C.   Accounting, Auditing and Insurance .25
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .25
The project and this report were prepared on the basis of an appraisal
mission in May 1985 by Messrs. Thampil Pankaj (Senior Economist),
Richard Scheiner (Senior Port Engineer), Mohammed Rasheed (Senior
Financial Analyst) and Eric Bubeer (UNCTAD Consultant for Training).
Ms. Carolina Machado provided computer assistance, Ms. F. Felah.
Ms. J. Vieira da Luz and Mrs. S. Sing provided secretarial assistance.
This dacunent has a nbicted ditrbudo and may be ud by rwcpients onl i    peformance
of thei officid dutniets contents may not odtewi be dscled wthout Wodd Bank autborSuin



ANNEXES
2-1 Transport Sector: Details
2-2 Existing Port Facilities and Organization
2-3 Recent and Projected Traffic through Ghana Ports. 1975-1995
2-4  Chart: Tema Port - Recent and Projected Traffic, 1975-1995
2-5  Chart: Takoradi Port - Recent and Projected Traffic, 1975-1995
2-6  Chart: Tema and Takoradi Ports - Recent and Projected Traffic,
1975-1995
2-7  Port Productivity Data
2-8  Proposed Framework for the New Container Handling and Storage
Company
2-9  Organizational Framevork of GPRA
2-10 Action Plan for Strengthening Port Management and Improving Port
Operations
3-1 Details of Project Works
3-2  Summary of Equipment
3-3 Details of Technical Assistance
3-4  Training Program
3-5  Summary of Cost Estimates
3-6  Project Financ'ng Plan
3-7  Project Coordination Unit, Terms of Reference
3-8 Project Implementation Schedule
3-9  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3-10 Chart: Expected Disbursement Profile
4   Economic Evaluation of the Project: Details
5-1  Financial Evaluation: Details
5-2  Income Statement for FY81-84: GPA, GCHC and TLC
5-3 Balance Sheets for FYB1-84: GPA, GCHC and TLC
5-4  Forecast Income Statement for FY85-95
5-5  Projected Sources and Applications of Funds: FY85 to 1995
5-6  Summary Balance Sheets for FY85 to FY95
5-7  Accounting, Budgeting, Auditing and Insurance
MAPS:  IBRD No. 18484R1 - Ghana: Administrative and Transport
Infrastructure
IBRD No. 19250   - Ghana Ports Rehabilitation Project: Proposed
Project Works at Tema
IBRD No. 19251   - Ghana Ports Rehabilitation Project: Proposed
Project Works at Takoradi
WAPT1
March 1986



GRAWA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
Reference                                                     WAIC
Number                Document Title                        Code No.
1.   Study of Organization, Management and Operations,
Ports of Tema and Takoradi, by Portia Management
Services Ltd., Liverpool, August. 1985                  224.762
(Cr. 1436)
2.  Tema and Takoradi Ports Development Study
by Sir William Halcrow and Partners,
in association with Peat, Marvick,
Mitchell and Co., Final Report, October 1985             227.513
(Vol. I and II)
3.   Training and Technical Assistance for Ports
of Tema and Takoradi;
Report by Capt. E. Bubeer; UNCTAD, July 1985.           226.386
4.   Port Productivity Indicators
A Case Study of Tema Port
by H.T. Addico, Ghana Shippers' Council,
June 1983                                               227.393
(undated)
5.  r-hana Ports Authority Decree (June.,977)                227.514
6.   WORKING PAPERS
(i) Details of Financial Analysis
(ii) Details of Economic Analysis
(iii) Detailed Project Cost Estimates
WAPT1
March 1986



- ii -
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumary
Borrower:      The Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:   Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority (GPHA)
Credit Amount: SDIR 22.4 million (US$24.5 million equivalent)
Terms:         The  entire proceeds to be on-lent to GPHA at 10X
for 20 years including a grace period of 5 years.
Project        The project would support the following components in the
Description:   ports of Tema and Takoradi:  (a) port  rehabilitation and
modernization program, consisting of (i) repair and
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and facilities;
(ii) removal of sunken vessels and other wrecks; (iii)
provision of container and roll-on/roll-off facilities at
Tema; (iv) provision of cargo handling equipment, commu-
nications and office equipment, and floating craft; and
(v) repair of salvageable equipment; and (b) institutio-
nal strengthening, consisting of (i) technical assistance
for strengthening management in the reorganized GPHA,
including GPHA headquarters and port managements at Tema
and Takoradi; (ii) training program for port managers,
staff and skilled workers; and (iii) support for project
supervision and coordination.
Project        The project  would prevent the  continuing  deterioration
Benefits       in Ghana's port facilities  and  efficiency and  signifi-
and Risks:     cantly izprove productivity of ship handling  operations.
The main project benefits would be: (i) savings in
ship-time in ports, by reducing service time and waiting
time, compared to the without-project situation; and (ii)
savings to cargo owners from reduced damage to cargo and
improved port handling in general. Most of thc savings
in ship-time accruing initially to ship owners are
expected to be passed on to Ghana through reduced freight
charges or avoided surcharges and freight increases,
while all other cargo handling benefits will accrue
directly to Ghanaian importers and exporters. Estimated
benefits to the port users are more than the additional
port charges that may be necessary to recover the full
project-related costs over a reasonable period of time.
Main project risks relate to transitional problems
arising from the major reorganization of port agencies
and the starting of a new private-sector dominateJ
container-handling company, as part of the project
objectives.   All  possible  steps  have  been  taken  in
project design and preparation to minimize these risks,
by emphasizing a gradual approach in proposed changes, by
enlisting the support of labor and other interests who



- iii -
have endorsed the reforms, and by strengthening port
management and its project implementation capability
through   providing   adequate   technical   assistance,
supervision support and training. Government has shown
full support and commitment, which is crucial for
imwlementing the reforms. Moreover, sensitivity analysis
shows that the project would produce a good economic
return even under very restrictive assumptions on
productivity gains, traffic increases and implementation
period.   Overall, project  risks  appear moderate  and
acceptable.
Estimated Cost
Z of Total
Local    Foreign    Total  Base Cost
(US$ million)
Works                              3.62      24.30      27.92     45
Equipment                          0.11      28.56      28.67     46
Technical Assistance               0.44        1.31      1.75      3
Training Program                   0.19       0.83       1.02      2
Project Supervision                0.33        1.01      1.34      2
PPF Repayment                                  1.00      1.00      2
Total Base Cost                    4.69      57.01      61.70    100
Physical Contingencies             0.72       4.86       5.58      9
Price Contingencies                1.07      10.44      11.51     19
Total Project Costs                6.48      72.31      78.79    128
Import Taxes                      17.01          -      17.01     27
Total Project Costs
(with import taxes)               23.49      72.31      95.80    155
Financing Plan
Local   Foreign             Total
IDA                                 3.00     21.50             24.50
Japan (OECF)                          --     29.20             29.20
Saudi Fund                            --     13.15             13.15
European Economic Community (EDF)  1.20       7.43              8.63
GPHA                                2.28      1.03              3.31
Govt. of Ghana (Loan to GPHA       17.01         -             17.01
covering deferred payment of
import taxes)
Total:                      23.49     72.31             95.80



- iv -
Estimated Disbursement
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year
1987       1988      1989      1990       1991      1992
Annual            4.1         8.0       7.6       3.1        1.5       0.2
Cumulative        4.1       12.1       19.7      22.8      24.3       24.5
Economic Rate of Return
The project investments would yield an internal economic rate of return
(ERR) of 27 Z In Tema. 29 Z in Takoradi and 28 Z in both ports together.
Major individual components have been separately evaluated and are found
to yield ERRs exceeding 20 Z. Sensitivity analysis shows that the ERR
for the total project would be above 20 Z, even under the folloving
restrictive assumptions: (i) port efficiency does not deteriorate from
present levels in the absence of the project; (ii) actual traffic growth
is only half of what is as sumed, the assumed 1990 traffic level being
reached only by about 1995; . d (iii) actual efficiency improvements are
only balf of what is assumedi.
WAPTi
March 1986



GHA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. IMTRODUCTION
1.01      Ghana's port capacity and efficiency are extremely low due to
inadequate maintenance  and  poor  organization  and management.   The
country incurs much higher costs in ocean freight and port handling
charges than most others in Western Africa. Moreover, the effective
capacity of the country's only commercial ports at Tema and Takoradi
remains weak and unsustainable, seriously constraining economic recov-
ery. To address these constraints, the Government of Ghana requested
IDA's assistance in financing the proposed Ports Rehabilitation Project.
The project will rehabilitate the rundown facilities at Tema and Tako-
radi, and in rease overall efficiency through the provision of assis-
tance in restructuring and strengthening port organization and manage-
ment. The project, which has been prepared with an advance from IDA's
Project Preparation Facility (PPF), will help provide essential capacity
to meet Ghana's port requirements until about 1995, or some five years
after project completion.
1.02      The project will reinforce IDA's ongoing assistance to Ghana's
economic recovery programs by (a) removing physical bottlenecks to
expanding exports and imports; (b) supporting suitable institution
building goals in the subsector; and (c) attracting the attention and
financing of other international aid agencies towards these important
objectives, while directing the flow of external funds to the ports'
essential needs.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
2.01      At independence in 1956, Ghana had a relatively well developed
transport system, which has been further expanded subsequently. How-
ever, due to neglect, inadequate financing, and organizational and
management deficiencies, it has deteriorated considerably, and is now in
a poor state of repair. The system comprises: (a) a network of about
14,100 km of trunk and urban arterial roads, and about an equal length
of feeder roads; (b) a 947 km railway system linking the country's three
major cities (Accra, Kumasi &ad Takoradi); (c) two major deep-water
ports at Tema and Takoradi and several fishing ports; (d) a small inland
water transport system on the Volta Lake; (e) a national maritime
shipping company,  the Black Star Lines;  and  (f) one international
airport at Accra and three main domestic airports, as well as a national
airline,  Ghana Airways  (GA), providing  international,  regional  and
domestic air transport services (Map IBRD 18484R1 presents the transport
network).
2.02      Administration of the transport sector is mainly the responsi-
bility of two Ministries: (a) the Ministry of Transport and Communica-
tions (MOTC), which is responsible for the formulation and monitoring of
policies and programs of public and private sector organizations and for
overseeing the work of the public sector agencies in ports, shipping,



railways and air transport; and (b) the Ministry of Roads and 2ighways
CHRH) which deals with the planning, construction and maintenance of
highways, urban roads and feeder roads through the Ghana Highway Author-
ity (GHA), the Department of Urban Roads (DUR), and the Department of
Feeder Roads (DFR), respectively. In addition, the Ministry of Fuel and
Power oversees the Volta Lake Transport Company, while the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning deals with the allocation of investment
resources to the transport sector.
2.03      About 85Z of road transport, which is the dominant part of the
transport system, is operated by the private sector. The public sector,
on the other hand, controls ports, lake transport, railways and domestic
civil aviation. Though state intervention was a major feature of past
policy, the present Government has clearly announced itself in favor of
encouraging the private sector, reorganizing public sector organizations
on more efficient lines, and privatizing some of them, if justified.
Government's recent decisions to (a) seek foreign private sector partic-
ipation to operate and jointly own the public sector Tema Shipyard and
Drydock Corporation, (b) drastically curtail staff and operations of the
Black Star Lines, and (c) set up a private sector dominated container
handling company in Tema port (para 2.12), are examples of this policy
shift in the transport sector.
2.04      The present capacity of virtually all transport modes in Ghana
is inadequate to meet even the current reduced level of demand, due to
lack of regular maintenance and upkeep for several years.   Ghana's
transport system has nearly broken down over the past few years and
remains a serious constraint to economic recovery.   The Government's
transport strategy emphasizes maintenance and rehabilitation rather than
creation of new capacity. The Goverment, with the assistance of IDA
and cther financing agencies, has recently made efforts to remove the
infrastructure constraints in all the main subsectors -- road transport,
roads, railways, civil aviation, and ports.
2.05      To address the varied problems confronting the vital road
subsector, the Government, wi.th the support of IDA, prepared a Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, which was approved by the
Association in June 1985 (Cr. 1601-GH for US$40.0 million), and is
supported by additional financing from the Bank's Facility for
Sub-Saharan Africa (US$10.0 million) and cofinancing from African
Development Bank (AfDB), Japanese r;overnment, World Food Program (WFP),
and the United Nations Development Programme (UND?).
2.06      Ghana's railway system, operated by the Government-owned Ghana
Railway Corporation (GRC), has played a major role in carrying four of
Ghana's most important export products to the ports: bauxite, manganese
and timber to Takoradi,  and cocoa to both Takoradi and Tema.  The
ongoing Railway Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1170-GH of June 1981)
supports the reorganization and physical rehabilitation of the system
(para 2.19). This project is expected to be completed in 1986, when
rail capacity on the western line, which is the principal export corri-
dor, should improve considerably. Rail traffic in 1985 already shows an
increase of about 40% over the traffic in 1984. Ghana's ports subsector
is discussed in paras 2.07 to 2.17 below. A fuller discussion of the
rest of the transport sector is presented in Annex 2-1.



-3-
B. The Ports Subsector
2.07      Present  Situation.   Ghana has  two main ports:  Tema,  near
Accra, opened in 1960, and Takoradi, opened in 1928 and further rehabil-
itated and extended in 1954 (Maps IBRD No. 19250 and 19251). Tema, the
premier port, has 11 general cargo berths and two specialized berths for
handling petroleum products and alumina. Takoradi has four alongside
berths for general cargo, nine mooring berths in the basin, and one
berth each for manganese ore, bauxite, petroleum products and clinker.
Both ports are connected to the road and rail networks (Map IBRD
No. 18484R1); Tema is also linked by a 60 km road to the Volta Lake
transport system which is being improved. Tema is financially in a more
favorable position as it is a more modern port, more centrally located
to serve the main commercial and population center of Accra, as well as
the Eastern and Northern regions of Ghana, and has a higher level of
traffic and a more diversified cargo mix of higher unit-value. Takora-
di's limitations in port facilities, and its dependence on low-value
mineral ore exports, make it a less viable operation(Annex 2-1 and
para 5.02).
2.08      Both ports were built with ample capacity, but their present
effective capacity is severely limited.  Port operations have become
increasingly inefficient due to the lack of handling equipment in good
working condition, general deterioration of installations, lack of
maintenance and dredging for many years, and inefficient organization
and management of the port agencies. This has resulted in extremely low
loading and unloading rates, excessive ship-time at berth, and high
demurrage and freight charges. Average ship-productivity for break-bulk
general cargo was only about 160 tons per ship-day in 1985, with produc-
tivity per gang-hour as low as three to four tons, both of which are
only about one-third of what can be achieved under normal circumstances.
Productivity was about 20% less in 1983, when some food ships had to
wait for a month to get a berth in Tema. Total port cargo throughput,
which was about 5.5 million tons in 1970 declined to 2.2 million tons in
1983, reflecting Ghana's overall economic decline in recent years.  Even
this reduced volume was handled at the ports under severe capacity
constraints, with an estimated avoidable higher cost of at least US$10
million per annum in ship-time alone. These and other avoidable costs
would rise  steeply  if port  efficiency were allowed  to deteriorate
further as traffic  increases in the near future with the expected
recovery of the Ghanaian economy. Moreover, the ports would be physi-
cally unable to handle the expected traffic by about 1990, thus severely
crippling the countrv's economic recovery. Traffic already increased to
2.4 million tons in 1984. and to an estimated 2.6 million tons in 1985.
Annex 2-2 provides data on existing port facilities, Annexes 2-3 through
2-6 on past (1975-85) and future projected port traffic statistics (up
to 1995), and Annex 2-7 on port productivity.
2.09      Some recovery from the dismal 1983 situation of the ports has
already taken place partly with assistance from IDA and other agencies.
The port agencies have benefited from the purchase of emergency spare
parts and some limited equipment and crafts financed under the Export
Rehabilitation Project (ERP), Credit GH-1435 of January 1984 which
provided US$4.8 million from IDA and IDA Special Fund for port compo-
nents and also from essential technical assistance provided through the



- 4 -
Export Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project (ERTAP), Credit
1436-GH of January 1984, which provided US$0.9 million for ports.
Concurrently, port labor productivity, which declined rapidly due to
below-subsistence wage levels following the massive devaluation in 1983,
has been stabilized and improved since 1984 when the World Food Program
(WFP), working in cooperation with IDA, launched a three-year program to
supply imported food items (which are not produced locally or which face
acute local shortages) to the workers and staff of the port agencies.
Further, since 1983, Government has allowed the port agencies to levy
port charges on foreign ships in foreign exchange, and to retain 20Z of
the foreign exchange receipts in their own accounts to buy spare parts
and other essential goods. This provision allowed the ports to import
some critical parts and equipment. To ensure that the port agencies are
not starved of foreign exchange needed for contiiued regular mainte-
nance, agreement was reached during credit negotiations that the port
agencies, including the private stevedoring companies, would continue to
retain a minimum of 20% of their foreign exchange earnings to meet the
foreign exchange component of future maintenance and rehabilitation
needs. A higher percentage of such retention should be allowed if annual
maintenance and rehabilitation needs in any year are assessed to exceed
the amount accumulated under this arrangement.
2.10      Port Organization and Management.  Infrastructure and instal-
lations in both ports are owned and operated by the Ghana Ports and
Harbours Authority (GPHA), which is a statutory Government corporation
set up in early 1986, after the merger of the erstwhile Ghana Ports
Authority (GPA) with two other public agencies which operated in the
ports, namely, the Ghana Cargo Handling Company (GCHC) and the Takoradi
Lighterage Company (TLC). Para 2.14 presents the organizational struc-
ture of GPHA, which is the legal successor to these three agencies.
Until reorganization, GPA owned all port facilities, installations and
part of the cargo handling equipment, while GCHC and To" also owned some
of the cargo handling equipment. GCHC did all shore handling operations
and 75% of stevedoring operations in both ports, while TLC, which
operated only in Takoradi port, dId all lighterage work (for all the
cargo handled through lighters or barges to and from ships anchored at
moorings) and also all log and timber handling on shore. About 25Z of
the stevedoring operations in each port was done by two private steve-
doring firms whose role is being reinforced and enhanced following
reorganization. The recent reorganization of the port agencies under
the GPHA Law of 1986 and other measures taken to increase private sector
participation in the ports (paras 2.11-2.16) were part of a much needed
organizational reform undertaken bv the Government to revitalize port
operations and management, as a precondition for the proposed rehabili-
tation of port facilities and equipment.
2.11      Until  recently,  Ghana's  port  organization  and management
presented a picture of total inefficiency and chaos, which compounded
the ports' inefficiency arising from lack of equipment and spare parts.
GPA, which, according to its enabling legislation, should have been in
charge of overall port operations ana management, had an inadequate
management which could not exercise proper control and direction in the
ports. Further, GPA's authority was often flouted by the other agencies
which, being public sector agencies, had equal access to Government, and
GPA's position had been substantially eroded over the years. As a



result, the three agencies (GPA, GCHC and TLC) operated with overlapping
jurisdictions, without effective coordination, causing continuous
conflicts, delays to shipping, pilferage and damage to cargo, and
overall inefficient management of the ports. Moreover, all port agen-
cies suffered from poor management because of shortage of qualified and
experienced staff, and an ill-defined management structure, particularly
regarding the division of responsibilities of the two individual ports
(Tema and Takoradi), which had no operational autonomy. This was most
critical in GPA where several senior members of the staff were suspended
or prematurely retired and not replaced, following the dissolution of
its Board of Directors in 1982 as part of a countrywide measure by the
new Government to change management of key public sector agencies. This
resulted in many "acting" appointments at both senior and junior levels
by officials who had neither the training nor the experience to ade-
quately  perform  their  duties.   Training  facilities  for  the ports'
personnel were, and are, particularly inadequate. All key departments,
such as pilotage, traffic operations, engineering, finance, planning and
training, lacked experienced staff at the top to manage the ports
efficiently.   During 1982-85,  GPA was run by an Interim Management
Committee which consisted of GPA officials and worker representatives,
and representatives of the National Workers' Defense Committee, but had
no representation for port users.
2.12      Government had undertaken, under the Export Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance Project (ERTAP) (para 2.09), to restructure the
port subsector organization, as necessary and according to a timetable
acceptable to the Association, on completion of a diagnostic study by
port management consultants financed under ERTAP.   Such a study was
completed in November 1984. Based on a review of its findings, Govern-
ment agreed, during project appraisal and in consultation with the
Association and concerned port agencies and labor interests, to imple-
ment a reorganization plan on the following lines: (a) restructuring GPA
by merging the other two public agencies (GCHC and TLC) with it, thus
establishing GPHA under a Board of Directors with adequate user repre-
sentation, and orienting GPHA's operations on commercial principles; (b)
making the two ports of Tema and Takoradi semi-autonomous, i.e., fully
independent in operations, with separate accounts, and competing with
each other on the basis of service efficiency, while the GPHA Head
Office will be coordinating general policy, overall financing, invest-
ment planning, training and other areas of common interest; (c) rein-
forcing the present role of the two private stevedoring companies with
provision for future increases in the private sector share; and (d) es-
tablishing a new container handling company with majority participation
of the private sector (51%) and with private sector management, with the
objective of ensuring efficient management and operation of the new
container handling and storage facility (container yard) to be set up in
Tema port under the project. GPHA will hold the remaining capital (49%)
of the new company. Since the new company will have to depend on GPHA
for physical access to berths (which are common user berths and will be
under the control of GPHA) and for some other operations, the concept of
a joint enterprise with GPHA will assist in smoother operations of the
container yard. This new company will take over all container yard
operations presently handled by GPHA, with partial support from shipping
agents. The share of container traffic in Tema is expected to increase
from about 20% of general cargo in 1984 to above 40% in 1990, thus



-6-
ensuring a larger private sector role in cargo handling operations at
the port  through  the new company.   During negotiations,  Government
confirmed its agreement to implement the above reorganization plan.
2.13      According to the timetable for reorganization agreed between
Government and IDA, the Government undertook to reorganize the port
agencies by enacting the GPHA Law and establishin, GPHA in operation in
early 1986, before consideration of the proposed vredit by the Associa-
tion's Board; this goal has been achieved. An action plan and timetable
for strengthening GPHA management and operations have also been agreed
(para 2.15).   Government has further agreed that the new container
company would be incorporated by June 1986 (this being a condition of
credit effectiveness), and that the new company would start operations.
within 12 months of its incorporation, on a temporary container yard to
be initially provided by GPHA, pending completion of a full container
yard under the proposed project.   The terms offered to the private
company would be such as to ensure its smooth operations, and would be
satisfactory to the Association.  Government and GPHA are negotiating
with potential private firms for starting such a company. Annex 2-8
presents the proposed framework for the new container company.
2.14      Under the GPHA legislation, its loard of Management has strong
representation of port users. In addition to the Board Chairman, it has
a Director General as chief executive, ard a Director for e-ch port
(Tema and Takoradi).  The two port directors will be members of the
Board to ensure their independent status.  GPHA and Government have
agreed to prepare port regulations under the GPHA Law, to ensure that
GPHA will operate on sound commercial principles, and that the GPHA Head
Office will not interfere in the day-to-day operations of the individual
ports which will be semiautonomous. GPHA will have rate making authori-
ty subject to the general guidance of the Government. Annex 2-9 pre-
sents the new organizational structure of GPHA. Key positions in the
GPHA have been filled; arrangements for matching personnel to agreed job
descriptions, prepared by Consultants, are in progress and will be
substantially completed by end of June 1986. Pending completion of this
process, staff of the erstwhile agencies continue on their original
functions as employees of GPHA, so that port operations would continue
without  disruption.   The  proposed  project will  provide  substantial
expatriate expertise to strengthen GPHA management (para 3.0).
2.15      For the strengthening of port management, steps already taken
or being taken are: (a) appointment in early 1985 of a highly competent
and assertive director in charge of GPA, who has already made an impact
in clearing up the port areas and in improving port management and
appointment of selected experienced managers from GPA, GCHC and TLC, and
from outside, to key positions in GPHA; (b) engagement of individual
consultants for improving equipment and civil works maintenance, pro-
curement of equipment, and for reorganization of port accounts, financed
under ERTAP (para 2.09) and partly under a PPF advance (para 3.11); (c)
inclusion in the proposed rehabilitation project of a technical assis-
tance program aimed at bringing expatriate experts to assist management
of key departments on a temporary basis, and at develoring a recruitment
and training program; and (d) appointment of port management consul-
tants, as a follow-up of earlier studies, for recommending (i) detailed



-7-
management structure for the reorganized GPHA, (ii) staff distribution
and manning levels under the new organization, (iii) a uniform tariff
and billing system after merger of the three public sector firms, and
(iv) organizational arrangements to be followed by the new container
company.  Based on a review of the study's interim findings, an action
plan was agreed during credit negotiations,  inclu ing a timetable of
main actions to be implemented to strengthen ma  gement.  The action
plan includes operational targets for improved p rt productivity, and
target dates for completing the restructuring of GPHA management,
introducing incentive wage systems, studying and proposing tariff
reforms, preparing future investment plans, and taking other necessary
steps.  GPHA has also agreed to a gradual re uction of excess staff
(GPHA having inherited a staff and work force /of about 7,800 from the
three agencies). This program reflects a phased approach in achieving
productivity improvements and organizational reforms, so as to minimize
major transition problems. Annex 2-10 presents the agreed action plan.
2.16      The above measures  (paras 2.12 to 2.15) would remove the
previous rampant internal conflicts in port operations, ensure better
control and direction in the ports, reduce duplication of efforts and
staff, and improve management by pooling thinly spread managerial staff.
It will also bring about greater competition between the two ports, and
give the private sector a substantially larger role than at present
through the new container handling company which will deal with an
increasingly critical part of the port operations. To increase private
participation and competition, the Government and GPHA have also agreed
to the following measures: (a) maintaining, as a minimum, the present
share of 252 of stevedore operations by the two private stevedoring
firms operating in Tema and Takoradi up to end-1989, and providing them
with adequace foreign exchange retention and access to the training
program  tuder   the   project;   (b)   completing   a   study,   before
March 31, 19. on measures for further increasing the role of private
sector firms in port handling operations, with emphasis on competition;
and (c) in light of review of the above study, agree with IDA, before
June 30, 1989, on a plan for implementing an enhanced role for the
private sector in port handling operations from January 1990 onwards.
2.17      Another action needed to improve Ghana's port subsector is to
streamline customs and port documentation procedures which, at present.
are very complex and cause undue delays.  GPHA has agreed to engage
consultants, financed by ERTAP, to study this problem and to suggest
improvements. An interim study has been completed and the final study
is to be undertaken. The Government and GPHA agreed, during negotia-
tions, to (a) have this study completed before December 31, 1986, and
(b) prepare, before June 30, 1987, an implementation program and time-
table acceptable to the Association, in the light of the study findings,
and to implement it accordingly.
C. Transport Sector Issues
2.18      The Association recently prepared, in consultation with the
Government, a Transport Sector Strategy Note (TSSN) on Ghana, focusing
on the country's main transport problems and policy issues (Re-
port No. 5737-GE,  June  1985).   It  proposes  a  coordinated  approach
linking necessary policy and institutional reforms to a phased program



- 8 -
of assistance to rehabilitate the sector. From the conclusions of this
report and discussions with the Government, the IMF and other major
donors. it is clear that the Bank Group's strategies in the transport
sector should continue to concentrate on rehabilitation and maintenance
of the existing roads, bridges, ports, and railways together with a
strong emphasis on institutional improvement and local staff training.
Further details are presented in Annex 2-1.
D. Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector
2.19      Apart from an engineering credit for US$1.5 million in 1969
for the preparation of road projects, the Bank Group has provided four
highway credits/loans  to Ghana.   The First Highway Project  (Credit
438-GH for US$13.0 million in FY74) was fully disbursed by February
1981. The Second Highway Project (Credit 594-GH for US$10.0 million and
Loan 1182-GH for US$18.0 million in FY75) was completed in 1983. These
two projects achieved only mixed results.  The Bank's combined audit
report on both projects noted that while the physical investments
yielded acceptable returns, the institutional objectives of these
projects were only partly met.   The ongoing Third Highway Project
(Emergency Maintenance Project, Credit 1029-GH for US$25.0 million,
approved in FY80), is due to be completed by June 30, 1986. The most
recent road project is the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
(Cr.1601-GH), for which IDA has approved US$40 million, with an addi-
tional US$10 million from the Bank's Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa:
this project addresses major subsectoral issues, and is supported by
several cofinanciers. The Credit became effective in November 1985. In
addition, the Bank approved a Railway Rehabilitation Project in 1981
(Cr. 1170-GH for US$29.0 million, with cofinancing from African Develop-
ment Bank). This project is now making satisfactorv progress, although
it had experienced many implementation problems and delays (Annex 2-1,
para 11).
2.20      More recently, the Bank provided four program-type emergency
credits for import and export rehabilitation, and the Accra District
Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1564-GH), all having transport components.
Details are given in para 2.09 and Annex 2-1. These projects are all
making good progress.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
3.01      The proposed project forms one of the core projects included
in Ghana's 1986-88 investment program, which was prepared in consulta-
tion with the Association, in the light of a Public Expenditure Review
jointly done by the Government and the Association in May 1985. Govern-
ment considers this to be a high priority project since, without the
proposed project, port efficiency would decline further and the ports
would be physically unable to handle the increased traffic expected by
about 1990, seriously impairing the country's economic recovery.
3.02      The main project  objectives  are:  (a)  to rehabilitate  the
substantially run-down port facilities in Tema and Takoradi, so as to
enable them to efficiently handle the country's export and import needs



-9-
during the immediate and medium term; and (b) to help strengthen and
reorganize port management and port institutions in Ghana, in order to
increase the efficiency of the port subsector as a whole. The project
will build on the emergency assistance being provided through the port
components under the ongoing ERP and ERTAP (para 2.09).
3.03      Because of its initial design and configuration, basic port
infrastructure, if rehabilitated as proposed and properly maintained,
should be sufficient at least through the 1990s. Equipment and floating
craft provided under the project should address estimated needs up to
about 1995. five years after project completion. Only essential compo-
nents have been included in the project, and most of the project invest-
ments would be needed even to cope with the traffic level estimated for
1990. The project is based upon an organization and management study of
Ghana's ports prepared by port management consultants, financed under
ERTAP, and an engineering and economic feasibility study prepared by
engineering consultants, financed by a PPF advance.
3.04      In addition to the proposed project, two other investments in
Tema port facilities are under planning: (a) rehabilitation of the
petroleum crude and products' berth, as a component of a Petroleum
Refining  and  Distribution  Rehabilitation  Project  being  separately
evaluated for possible financing by the Association; and (b) rehabilit-
ation of the fishing berth facilities, which are owned and managed by
GPBA. The present project includes some minor works such as lighting
and surface repairs in the fishing port; a full rehabilitation project,
estimated to cost about US$5 million, is being prepared by the same
consultants who prepared the main port project, financed also under the
PPF. This study will be completed by about May 1986. If the proposed
fishing port rehabilitation is found to yield a satisfactory economic
return, which is considered likely, Government intends to seek external
financing. If undertaken, the fishing port project would relieve major
problems in port handling and servicing facilities faced by Ghana's
thriving fishing industry.   The costs and benefits of the oil and
fishing projects are not included in the financial and economic analysis
of this project. During negotiations. GPHA agreed that it would not
undertake any fishing port investments that are unlikely to be financi-
ally self-supporting through fishing port revenues. GPHA also agreed
that it would consult with the Association before undertaking new
rehabilitation and investment projects in the ports subsector prior to
1995 (other than the proposed project), costing more than US$1 million
equivalent per annum.
B. Project Description
1. General
3.05      To assist in fulfilling the objectives, the project provides,
for the ports of Tema and Takoradi, financial assistance for the compo-
nents summarized below and subsequently described in more detail:
(a) Port Rehabilitation and Modernization
{i) repair and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and
facilities;



- 10 -
(ii) removal of sunken vessels and other wrecks;
(iii) provision of container and roll-on/roll-off facilities at
Tema;
(iv) provision of cargo handling equipment, communications and
office equipment, and floating craft; and
(v)  repair of salvageable equip6ent.
(b) Institutional Strengthening
(i) technical assistance to strengthen management in the
GPHA, including GPHA headquarters and port managements at
Tema and Takoradi;
(ii) training program for port managers, staff and skilled
workers; and
(iii) project supervision and coordination.
2. Port Rehabilitation and Modernization
3.06      Port Infrastructure and Facilities.  Most of the investments
in both ports would be used for repairing infrastructure and for rehabi-
litating or replacing facilities, while only a minor part of the invest-
ment will be used for creating new facilities. The proposed invest-
ments, described in more detail in Annex 3-1, comprise civil, mechanical
and electrical works to repair current infrastructure at both Tema and
Takoradi, including works for removal of sunken barges and other wrecks
from the harbor areas of both ports.   At Tema, a new container yard
behind existing berths will be provided to handle all containers arriv-
ing in the port, with a total capacity of 50,000 Twenty Foot Equivalent
Units (TEU), the expected container traffic in the early 1990s (see
Annex 2-3).  Also, the rehabilitation of a wharf area to serve as a
roll-on/roll-off ramp has been included for Tema.
3.07      Cargo handling equipment, communications and office equipment,
and floating craft, to be provided under the project and itemized in
more detail in Annex 3-2, comprise: (a) cargo handling equipment for
general and bulk cargos, timber and logs, containers and cocoa in bags;.
(b) workshop equipment, including equipment for the dry dock and slipway
at Takoradi; (c) equipment for ship-to-shore and internal communica-
tions, and office equipment including computers and accessories, for an
efficient management information system (MIS); (d) floating craft, i.e.,
tugs, pilot launches, mooring boats, lighters, water-barge and various
navigational aids to assist vessels; and (e) one grab dredger for
maintenance dredging in both ports.   In addition,  the project will
include the repair of about ten shore cranes and two tugs which can be
salvaged.
3.  Irnstitutional Strengthening
3.08      The project would provide consultant and other services for
institutional strengthening (i.e., technical assistance, training,



- 11 -
project supervision and coordination) as itemized in Annex 3-3, and as
discussed below (see also paras 3.09-3.10). Apart from assisting in
project implementation, major objectives of these inputs would be to
build up Ghanaians' own capability to run the ports reasonably and
efficiently after the i-plementation period is over, to maintain them
properly,  and  tr. plan  and  execute  further  investments.   Technical
assistance will be provided for helping GPEA and other port-related
agencies in various areas of port management. Spread over a period of
about three years, it includes: (a) 40 man-months of experts in port
management, information systems and tariff studies to help GPHA Head
Office, (comprising three line management positions); (b) 84 man-months
of experts for strengthening management at the port of Tema, comprising
four line management positions and one advisory position; (c) 108 man-
months for strengthening management in the port of Takoradi, comprising
five  line-management  positions  and  one  advisory  position;   and
(d) 18 man-months of a container operations advisor to be channeled
through GPHA, and who will assist the new container handling company in
Tema  (para 2.13).  Provision has also been made for consultants to
prepare   a   follow-up   project   and   other  miscellaneous   studies
(15 man-months). These experts will, in association with the Director
General of GPHA and the Port Directors of Tema and Takoradi, design and
introduce management and maintenance systems suitable for the organiza-
tion and activity levels of the Ghana Port System. Most of the experts
will be drawn from an experienced port management agency, which will
administer the program as a package. It was agreed during negotiations
that (a) GPHA would appoint counterparts for all technical assistance
advisory positicns before appointing the experts, and (b) in the case of
line management 'nositions, a Ghanaian incumbent would be appointed to
take over from the expatriate expert, about six months before the expiry
of the expert's term of appointment, during which period the expert
would function as an advisor to the regular incumbent. Terms of refer-
ence for the various positions and a recruitment program for the experts
were agreed during negotiations. GPHA also agreed to finalize, before
June 30, 1987, and in consultation with the Association, the employment
terms for the container operations expert for the new container handling
company.   Such an expert would be employed only if the new container
company needed such assistance.
3.09      Training  of managers,  staff  and  skilled workers will be
integrated with the above technical assistance over a three-year period.
The main objective of the training program will be to strengthen and
expand GPHA's existing limited training capability, enabling it to
design and implement a long-term training program aimed at producing
qualified personnel required to carry out port operations and mainte-
nance activities. The training program will include: (a) assistance for
establishing a central training department at GPHA's Read Office and a
training division at each of the ports of Tema and Takoradi; (b) the
recruitment of a Chief of Training (36 man-months) as well as training
specialists/instructors in stevedoring and shore handling (including log
handling) and port and administrative matters (36 man-months); (c) the
building of essential physical training facilities and purchase of
training equipment and materials;   (d)  the organization of regular
training courses for staff and skilled workers and periodic short
seminars for middle and high-level operations and maintenance staff; and
(e)   the   training   abroad   (fellowships,   international   seminars,



- 12 -
conferences) for selected staff and senior Ghanaian instructors.  The
project will provide incentives for local instructors. In addition to
GPHA personnel, the training program will cover the personnel of the two
private stevedoring firms operating in the ports, and other port-related
agencies fincluding the Ministry of Transport and the Customs Depart-
ment). The program will be managed by a specialist Chief of Training
who will function as the head of the new Training Department to be set
up in GPHA Head Office (Annex 3-3); about six months before expiry of
his term, this function will be taken over by a qualified Ghanaian,
while the expatriate expert will function as an advisor to the nev
incumbent. GPHA will set up a Training Committee with members from the
two ports to assist the Chief of Training. During negotiations, Associ-
ation  and  GPHA  agreed  on  the  proposed  training  arrangements,
training-related actions to be undertaken by GPHA, and terms of refer-
ence for the training experts.   Annex 3-4 provides background on the
training strategy, training needs and management, main training courses
and implementation arrangements, and Annex 2-10 (Action Plan) includes a
timetable of training-related actions to be undertaken by GPHA.
3.10      Project Supervision and Coordination.  In order to strengthen
GPHA management in project implementation, and to assist in proper
monitoring and coordination of works with ongoing traffic operations, a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be set up consisting of a Project
Coordinator    (36   man-months)    and   a   Procurement    Specialist
(18 man-months), financed under the project, and a senior project
accountant and other staff from GPEA dealing with project accounts,
procurement and engineering supervision (para 3.16). In addition, the
project will finance engineering consultants to supervise civil works in
both ports, and their work will be coordinated by PCU. The PCU will, in
addition to assisting project management and coordination, provide
on-the-job training to Ghanaian engineers and technicians in project
supervision and procurement.
3.11      To assist Ghana in preparing the project and in starting to
strengthen port management for project implementation, US$1.0 million
was advanced from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). This cost is
included as part of project costs, since the Government/GPHA will repay
the PPF Advance from the proceeds of the proposed Credit.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.12      Estimated project costs, net of taxes, are about US$78.8 mil-
lion equivalent (including physical and price contingencies) with a
foreign exchange component of about US$72.3 million equivalent or 92Z of
the project cost. Total cost, including taxes, is about US$95.8 mil-
lion. Cost estimates for the various repair and rehabilitation works
are primarily based upon detailed designs prepared by the consultants
and on preliminary designs on a few, small items. Cost estimates for
repair works are generally difficult to establish and cannot be compared
to other similar projects because of their unique nature. The estimates
assume physical contingencies of 20X on average for repair works, whicn
is considered appropriate coverage for the assessed risks. Cost esti-
mates for new works are based upon actual bid prices for recent similar
works in Bank-financed port projects in West Africa. Cost estimates for
equipment are based upon presently quoted international prices for



- 13 -
similar equipment.  Costs have been estimated at the current official
exchange rate of US$1 -  g90, and the base costs reflect prices in
January 1986. Estimated rates of inflation on foreign costs have been
applied to both foreign and local costs. This assumes that any persis-
tent divergence in foreign and local rates of inflation will be correct-
ed by exchange rate adjustments.  This divergence, however, would not be
significant for the project, as local components constitute only 8Z of
total costs.  Price contingencies are based on estimated annual foreign
inflation of 7% for 1986 and 1987, 7.5Z for 1988, and 7.7% for 1989 to
1991.  A total of 265 man-months of technical assistance, excluding
project supervision and training, would be provided under the project.
Details of cost estimates are given in Annex 3-5.
3.13      Import duties and taxes on project related imports are esti-
mated at US$17.0 million and range between 10% and 30% of individual
project components.   These taxes will be charged directly to GPHA.
Contractor rates will therefore be exclusive of duties and taxes on
items directly imported.   Government agreed during negotiations that
these tax payments would be deferred and treated as a loan from the
Government to GPHA, to be repaid under the same terms as the onlending
of IDA funds to GPHA (para 3.15).
3.14      Project financing is expected to be provided to the Government
for onlending to GPHA by: (a) The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund,
Japan (OECF) (US$29.2 million equivalent)}  covering most of the equip-
ment and floating craft;  (b) the Saudi Fund for Development (US$13.2
million equivalent), covering civil works at Tema; (c) the European
Economic Community's Economic Development Fund (EDF) (US$8.6 million
equivalent),  covering civil works at Takoradi; and (d) IDA (US$24.5
million equivalent) for technical assistance, training, project supervi-
sion, wrecks removal, civil works and equipment. GPHA would provide
US$3.3 million equivalent, covering part of local costs for various
components, and the Government would treat the import taxes due on
project imports (US$17.0 million equivalent) as a loan to GPRA. Extern-
al agencies will cover all foreign costs and part of the local costs.
There will be no contribution from Government, other than by way of its
onlending of the foreign credits received for the project and the
arrangement to receive import taxes on project imports on a deferred
basis.  GPHA's present financial resources would not permit a larger
contribution than shown above, though it can meet all debt obligations
after project completion, through its operating revenues. The above
cofinancing arrangements are firm but, with the exception of OECF. are
not yet formally committed. During negotiations, it was agreed that the
signing of the various cofinancing agreements would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.  Annex 3-6 provides a summary of the financing
plan and an estimated allocation of the various financing resources to
individual project components.
3.15      In addition to the Development Credit Agreement with Govern-
ment, there will be a Project Agreement between the k.asociation and
GPHA. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent to GPHA at 1OZ
interest with repayment period of 20 years including 5 years of grace.
The foreign exchange risk of the Credit will be borne by GPEA. Infla-
tion currently is running at about 15% on an annual basis, compared with
40% in 1984, and is expected to decline further to 10% or below within



- 14 -
the next two or three years. Signing of an onlending agreement between
the Government and GPHA, satisfactory to the Association, is a condition
of credit effectiveness. This agreement, the terms of which were agreed
during negotiations, will indicate all financial and operational action
plan targets to be achieved by GPHA. The Government will authorize GPHA
Board to take all necessary actions,  including tariff  increases as
needed to achieve such agreed targets. Other on-lending agreements will
be signed for the funds received from OECF, Saudi Fund and EEC at their
terms and conditions.   The OECF Credit, signed in October 1985, pro-
vides for a 5.5% onlending rate of interest to be paid by GPRA. with
Government assuming the foreign exchange risk (Annex 5-1, para 13). In
order to encourage GPHA to function on commercial principles without
subsidized resources, the Government agreed during negotiations to
follow the on-lending terms applicable to IDA funds (102 interest and 20
years pay-back period), also with respect to the EEC and Saudi Fund
contributions, subject to agreement from these agencies.
D. Implementation and Present Status of Project
3.16      GPHA will  be  responsible  for project  implementation.   To
ensure effective coordination between cofinanciers and GPHA's operating
departments when the repair/rehabilitation works proceed, and to ensure
adherence to the implementation timetable, a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) will be created under the overall supervision of the Director
General of GPMA. The PCU, whose principal responsibilities and terms of
reference are described in Annex 3-7, will have staff dealing with
project procurement, and project supervision and coordination, and will
be assisted by a Project Coordinator, a Procurement Specialist, and a
Senior Project Accountant (para 3.10). PCU will also be supported by
engineering consultants appointed separately for supervising the civil
works in Tema and Takoradi, and will be assisted in its activities by an
interdepartmental Project Implementation Committee to be set up by GPHA
(Annex 2-10). The PCU will have the primary responsibility for evalua-
tion of bids and for the general execution of works and procurement and
installation of equipment.  The PCU will prepare regular reports on
project implementation, which GPHA will submit to the Association and
cofinanciers. PCU will also assist in preparing the project completion
report. The detailed activities of the PCU and all project implement-
ation arrangements were agreed during negotiations. Establishment of
the PCU, appointment nf its key staff (Project Coordinator, Procurement
Specialist  and  Senior Project  Accountant),  and  the appointment  of
engireering consultants for works supervision are conditions of credit
effectiveness.
3.17      Procurement of items financed by IDA, OECF, Saudi Fund and EDF
will be under parallel financing, each package following the procurement
rules of the financing agencies concerned; design and procurement
actions are being centralized by GPHA through technical assistance
financed by IDA. Detailed design for civil works and preparation of
tender documents commenced in July 1985, and have been substantially
completed. Prequalification proposals were invited in December 1985.
Tender documents will be issued to the prequalified bidders in April
1986. Preparation of specifications and tender documents for equipment
and floating craft commenced in October 1985, and tender documents for
these items will be issued to prequalified bidders in April 1986.



- 15 -
Procurement of equipment and craf t will be phased according to the
completion of civil works rehabilitation. The execution of civil and
other works is expected to take about four and a half years starting
October 1986 to be completed by May 1991. Procurement of floating craft
is expected to commence by December 1986 and be completed by July 1988,
and that of cargo handling and other equipment is scheduled to begin
early/mid-1987 and be completed by late 1990. Technical assistance and
training services are expected to commence by July 1986 and are estimat-
ed to be completed by September 1991.  While a four year completion
period for the project is feasible, the standard disbursement profile
for Bank port projects in West Africa, however, indicates about five and
a half years from Board presentation. Cost estimates &ad implementation
plans have been based on the standard profile. The project will be
fully completed by September 1991, even though 9OZ of the project will
be completed already by early 1990.  Annex 3-8 presents the implementa-
tion schedule which was discussed and agreed during negotiations.
3.18      Technical assistance, in conjunction with the reorganization
of GPHA and for strengthening its operations and financial management in
preparation for project implementation, has partly started from Septem-
ber 1985, under the PPF advance (para 3.11), and will be continued and
enlarged under the proposed project.
E. Procurement
3.19      All procurement activities, excluding contracting for servic-
es, will be reviewed by PCU for compliance with credit and guideline
provisions.   Procurement  decisions  for  all  transactions  under  IDA
financing, in excess of US1OO,O00 equivalent, will be subject to prior
approval by IDA. Project inputs and construction contracts financed by
IDA will be carried out through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Some civil works, financed by IDA in
the ports of Tema and Takoradi, up to a combined total of US$1.0 mil-
lion, and goods up to a total of US$400,000, with individual contracts
not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent, may be procured based on local
competitive bidding, advertised locally, following local bidding proce-
dures acceptable to the Association; these local procedures were re-
viewed and agreed during negotiations.  In addition, spare parts and
accessories which are of a proprietary nature, financed by IDA. may be
purchased, up to a maximum of US$400,000 equivalent, under directly
negotiated contracts on terms satisfactory to the Association. Goods
manufactured locally will be given a preference margin of 15% or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is less. Local contractors will have
7.5% preference for civil works under ICB. The procurement for project
items, supply of equipment and floating craft, and construction con-
tracts financed by other cofinanciers will be let in accordance with
their respective guidelines and conditions; the items under OECF financ-
ing are expected to be procured under open international competitive
bidding somewhat similar to IDA Guidelines. Project items to be fi-
nanced by different agencies have been grouped in such a way as to
facilitate parallel procurement and financing.   Consultancy services
financed by the Association will be procured following IDA Guidelines.
The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:



- 16 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement under the Project a*
(USS million)
Project Element                        Procurement Method
Total
ICB         LCB         Other        Cost bJ
Port of Tema: works              8.8          0.5          14.1         23.4
(7.3)       (0.2)                       (7.5)
Port of Takoradi: works          5.2          0.5           8.7         14.4
(5.0)       (0.2)                       (5.2)
Removal of Wrecks                2.4                                     2.4
(2.4)                                   (2.4)
Equipment and Materials         32.0          0.4           0.4         32.8
(2.8)       (0.4)         (0.4)         (3.6)
Tech. Assistance,                             0.3           4.5          4.8
Training & Proj. Superv.                    (0.3)         (4.5)        (4.8)
Refinancing of PPF                                          1.0          1.0
(1.0)        (1.0)
Total Project                   48.4          1.7          28.7         78.8
(17.5)       (1.1)         (5.9)        (24.5)
a/ Amotnts financed by IDA in parenthesis.
b/ Project costs shown exclude import taxes (para 3.13).
3.20      The rehabilitation works at Tema (US$23.4 million) will be
divided into three packages: one of about US$14.1 million to be jointly
financed by the Saudi Fund (US$13.1 million) and the GPHA (US$1.0
million) according to Saudi Fund bidding procedures; a second of about
US$8.8 million jointly financed by IDA (US$7.3 million) and GPHA (US$1.5
million) and procured on the basis of IDA's ICB procedures; and a third
of about US$0.5 million to be procured on the basis of local bidding
procedures and financed by IDA (US$0.2 million) and GPHA (US$0.3 mil-
lion). Similarly, Takoradi rehabilitation works (US$14.4 million) will
be divided into three packages: a first one of US$8.7 million, to be
financed by EEC following ICB procurement procedures; a second one of
US$5.2 million to be jointly financed by IDA (US$5.0 million) and GPHA
(US$0.2 million) following IDA's ICB procedures; and a third one, for
about US$0.5 million, to be financed by IDA (US$0.2 million) and GPMA
(US$0.3 million) following local competitive procedures.
F. Disbursements
3.21      The Credit is expected to be effective by July 31, 1986, and
the proposed closing date is March 31, 1992. The IDA credit would be
disbursed against various categories as follows, on the basis of an
estimated disbursement schedule presented in Annexes 3-9 and 3-10:



- 17 -
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category Description             IDA Amount             Z Financed
(US$ million)
1. Works                            11.1      100X of foreign expenditures
852 of local expenditures
2. Removal of Wrecks                 2.1      100Z of foreign expenditures
3. Equipment including vehicles,    3.2       100% of foreign expenditures
materials, spare parts                   90% of local expenditures
4. Technical Assistance.             4.0      100X
studies and training
5. Refinancing PPF Advance           1.0      Amount due
6. Special Account                    -       Authorized Allocation
7. Unallocated                       3.1
Total                            24.5
3.22      A revolving fund will be established for IDA funds in a
Special Account with a commercial bank authorized to deal in foreign
currencies.  An advance of US$2.5 million from IDA funds into the
Special Account will be made after the declaration of credit effective-
ness. The Special Account will be replenished following applications
for reimbursement from GPHA together with supporting documents from the
PCU, as well as the commercial bank's statements on the related Special
Account. Reimbursement requests should be submitted to IDA on a monthly
basis or whenever payments are in excess of one-third of the initial
deposit, subject to a minimum reimbursement value of US$400,000. The
amount of IDA replenishment would not exceed the initial deposit in the
Special Account. Contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent and local
training programs approved by IDA may be disbursed on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). PCU will manage all accounting records
of the revolving fund, project account, and other project expenditure
under each financing agency. Agreements were reached during negotia-
tions on the operation of the revolving fund.  To facilitate project
financing, GPMA has agreed to set up a Project Account in a commercial
bank before October 31, 1986, and to maintain in it. until project
completion, a minimum balance of US$100,000 equivalent in foreign
currency, and US$250,000 equivalent in local currency; the project
account will be operated as a revolving fund for project expenditures to
be incurred by GPHA.
G. Reporting
3.23      With the help of PCU and its consultants, GPMA will submit to
the Association quarterly reports on project implementation and



- 18 -
expenditures, together with key indicators for monitoring progress of
the project, as well as the financial and operational results of port
operations. In addition, GPHA will report, on a semiannual basis for a
period of 5 years after project completion, on selected port performance
data. The reporting requirements were agreed during negotiations.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Present Traffic and Future Projections
4.01      The ports of Tema and Takoradi together handled 2.4 million
tons of traffic in 1984 (Tema 1.8 million tons and Takoradi 0.6 million
tons),  which  comprised:   petroleum  imports  and  other  liquid bulk,
1.0 million tons; dry bulk cargo (bauxite and manganese ore exports, and
cement clinker imports) 0.6 million tons; and general cargo. 0.8 million
tons.  In 1975. their combined traffic was 4.7 million tons, which
decreased to 4.0 million tons in 1980, and 2.2 million tons in 1983.
The upturn started in 1984. and traffic has further increased to an
estimated 2.6 million tons in 1985. With the success of Ghana's econom-
ic recovery program, it is expected that traffic will increase signifi-
cantly in the near future. Port traffic projections, based on various
subsector and economic projections made by Bank staff, indicate a total
traffic level of about 4.3 million tons in 1990 and 4.8 million tons in
1995. Dry cargo (general and bulk) is expected to increase to about 3.0
million tons in 1990, which is still less than the level achieved in
1975.  Container traffic in the two ports  together is expected to
increase from about 22,000 TEU to about 52,000 TEU by 1990. Details of
past port traffic and future projections are presented in Annex 2-3.
B. Project Benefits
4.02      The project will assist GPHA to handle the expected traffic
with much greater efficiency than is possible at present, producing
considerable economic benefits. The main project benefits would be:
(c) savings in ship-time in ports, by reducing service time and
waiting time, compared to the without-project situation in
which port efficiency would further decline; most of the
savings in this regard would, however, be from improving port
efficiency over current levels;
(d) savings to cargo owners from reduced damage to cargo and
improved port handling in general; and
(e) general economic benefits to the country by making its import
and export traffic movements through the ports physically
feasible and efficient.  It is estimated that, for the pro-
jected traffic and assuming a marginal reduction in port
efficiency, the ports' capacity utilization would, in the
absence of the project, reach about 100% by about 1990.
Savings under (a) have been estimated with reference to expected port
efficiency levels (in tons handled per ship-day) with and without the
project (Annex 4, Attachment 1). A part of these savings is assumed to
be retained by foreign shipping lines and excluded from project benefit



- 19 -
calculations (Annex 4, para 6). Since, as noted, port capacity utiliza-
tion is estimated to reach about 100l by about 1990 in the absence of
the project, benefit calculations for future years have been effectively
frozen at the expected 1990 level of traffic; this underestimates
project benefits relating to the higher traffic levels expected after
1990.  Savings under (b) have been estimated on the basis of norms
developed from recent experience in the ports relating to cargo damage
due to leaking sheds, excessive truck waiting time, and other factors.
The macroeconomic developments under (c) are difficult to quantify and
were therefore excluded from the estimate.
C. Economic Returns and Sensitivity
4.03      Analysis shows that the project investments would yield an
estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of 27Z for Tema, 29Z for Takora-
di and 28% for both ports together. This reflects the high level of
project benefits from avoiding port congestion that would occur in the
absence of the project, with expected increases in traffic.   These
results are based on conservative assumptions (para 4.02). Most of the
project investments are interrelated to achieve the main purpose of
improving ship handling rates per day. Major individual components have
been separately evaluated and are found each to yield ERRs exceeding
20Z.  Sensitivity analysis shows that the estimated ERR for the total
project would be above 20%, even under the following restrictive assump-
tions: (a) port efficiency would not deteriorate below current levels in
the absence of the project; (b) actual traffic growth would be only half
of what is assumed in the base case, that is, the projected 1990 traffic
level would be reached only by about 1995; and (c) actual efficiency
improvements would be only half of what is assumed for the base case.
Annex 4 provides additional details of the economic evaluation.
D. Project Risks
4.04      Main project risks relate to transitional problems arising
from the recent reorganization of port agencies, including formation of
the new container handling company, and the attitude of the 7,800 strong
labor and staff towards these changes and towards achieving the proposed
productivity increases. All possible steps have been taken in project
design and preparation to minimize any adverse impact from these factors
on project implementation and productivity improvements. These steps
include: (a) a gradual and phased approach in implementing organization-
al and financial reforms (paras 2.15, 2.16, and 5.04); (b) full partici-
pation of the labor and other related interests who agreed with most of
the proposed reforms during the project appraisal process, and Govern-
ment's full commitment to implement these reforms; (c) introduction of
incentive wage systems and food aid for the workers (paras 2.16 and
2.09); and (d) strengthening of port management and its project imple-
mentation capability through technical assistance, training and supervi-
sion support under the proposed project (paras 3.08 to 3.10), and under
interim arrangements financed by ERTAP and PPF (paras 2.09 and 3.18).
Moreover, sensitivity analysis shows that even if productivity gains and
traffic increases were only one-half of what is assumed, the project
would still yield high economic returns exceeding 20% (para 4.03).
Risks of further delavs to project implementation are minimal since the
project implementation period assumed, following the historical profile,



- 20 -
is at least a year longer than feasible (para 3.17). Overall, project
risks appear moderate and acceptable.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
5.01      Prior to the creation of GPHA (para 2.10), the three individu-
al entities (GPA, GCHC and TLC) maintained separate accounts related to
their own operations. The evaluation of their past financial perfor-
mance prior to the merger, is discussed in detail in Annex 5-1 and is
siummarized in section A below; GPHA's financial objectives and forecasts
for 1986-1995 are discussed in section B below.
A. Past and Present Financial Performance
5.02      Of the three entities, GPA was the largest in terms of assets,
although its income is comparable with that of GCHC. The steady decline
in traffic over the past several years has substantially deteriorated
the overall financial condition of the port sector. All operations in
Takoradi port have been showing continual losses up to 1983. Tema port
operations, on the other hand, have been generating some profits and
absorbing Takoradi's losses (para 2.07).  Since late 1983, there has
been a significant financial improvement at both ports, mainly due to
increased port charges.  Annex 5-2 shows detailed income accounts of
GPHA, GCHC and TLC for 1981 through 1984.
5.03      The  current ratios  for GPHA, GCHC and TLC have improved
between 1981 and 1984.  However, this is mainly due to the increasing
number of accounts receivable, which reached an alarming rate of over
702 of total current assets at the end of 1984.  This situation is
expected to be corrected in future (para 5.12 (e)). Annex 5-3 shows the
1981-84 balance sheets for the three companies.
B. Financial Objectives and Forecast Financial Performance
5.04      The problems faced by the port entities (low port efficie-.cy
and low traffic level) can be tackled only gradually and, therefore, the
reorganized GPHA will continue to face financial difficulties at least
in the short run. A large real increase in port tariffs before improv-
ing port services through proposed project is not advisable since port
expenses, including port charges and shiptime costs (mainly because
ships have to stay longer due to the low port productivity) are already
high in Ghana ports. GPHA must therefore follow a two-phased approach,
under which it would gradually improve its financial performance from
the short to long term, attaining full financial objectives in the long
term, as discussed below. In short term, during the implementation of
the project, GPHA would have to ensure that adequate tariffs are in-
creased on a timely basis to catch up with the inflation, reduce operat-
ing cost, improve productivity and generate sufficient funds to meet all
operating costs and interest payments on loans.   In the long term,
GPHA's goal would be to become and remain a commercially-oriented,
profitable and self sufficient entity. To obtain this self-sufficiency,
GPMA is expected to: (a) increase tariffs to cover all operating costs
including proper repairs and maintenance of port facilities; (b) service
its debts (interest and repayments) or cover depreciation on revalued
assets, whichever is higher; and (c) make a reasonable contribution to



- 21 -
justified renewal and expansion investments. To cover these important
objectives, appropriate time bound covenants have been introduced in the
legal documents (para 5.12). GPHA has undertaken to inform the Associa-
tion, for its review and comment, of the expected annual tariff increas-
es and other necessary measures in order to achieve above-stated finan-
cial objectives.  Such measures would ensure that each profit or cost
center in GPHA is functioning under efficient standards and that costs
are properly reflected in tariff levels.
5.05       Income Accounts.  A financial forecast for 1986 to 1995 has
been developed for GPHA, based on the traffic forecast, investment plan,
and financing plan contained in the project and the criteria mentioned
in para 5.04. Because of continued high inflation in the country and
likely depreciation in the exchange value of the cedi, the forecast has
been prepared in January 1986 constant cedis.  Major assumptions and
considerations used in the forecasts are described in Annex 5-1.
5.06      Projected income statements for GPHA for 1986-95, along with
the combined estimated income statement for GPA, GCHC and TLC for 1985
(before merger) are shown in Annex 5-4 and a summary Is presented in the
following table:
Projected Income Statement of GPHA
(Cedis million, in constant prices of January 1986)
1985  1986    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
(est.)
Traffic Volume
Assumed ('000 tons)   2,604                3,500         4,295                              4,855
Tariff Increases
in Real Terms                                      15%           10%
Operating Revenues     1,042  1,498  1,603  1,684  1,902  2,140  2,426  2,493  2,625  2,703  2,771
Working Expenses         754    974  1,012  1,046  1,078  1,234  1,304  1,354  1,366  1,378  1,389
Depreciation and
Amortization           377   519    538   567    581    586   589    604    606    610    6U
Operating Expenses     1,131  1,493  1,550  1,613  1,659  1,820  1,893  1,958  1,972  1,988  2,000
Net Operat. Rev. (Loss)    (89)   5     53    71    243    320   533    535    653   n75    771
Non-Operat. Revenues      11    17    26    30    30    30    30    30    30    30    30
Interest Charges           5     !4    111    322    518    611   616    572    531   488    445
Net Income (Loss)       (83)      8   (32)  (221)  (245)  (261)   (53)    (7)    152   257    356
Operating Ratio         1.09   1.00   0.97   0.96   0.87   0.85   0.78   0.79   0.75   0.74   0.72
Return on Net Fixed Assets    -   -      -      -    2.8    4.1   6.8    7.0    9.3   10.8   11.9
5.07       The ports of Tema and Takoradi were originally constructed for
a level of traffic much higher than at present. Because of low traffic
in past years, GPHA experienced acute shortages of cash and consequently
neglected proper maintenance of port facilities. The crucial aspect in
the financial rehabilitation of GPHA is, therefore, to regain adequate
cash generation.  Under the proposed project, port facilities will be
rehabilitated. The traffic will increase and tariffs will be raised in
real term in addition to regular normal raises to recover inflationary
cost increases.  The efficiency and performance of the staff will be
improved through training programs, the quality of service will be
enhanced, and the operating costs will be reduced, partly through
reduction of surplus staff. The projected income statement indicates



- 22 -
that during the forecast period, the operating loss position of Takoradi
(t 156.5 million loss in 1985) will be improved to an operating profit
position ({ 19.1 million profit in 1995). Similarly, for Tema, the net
operating revenues of e 67.4 million in 1985 will be improved to e 752.4
million in 1985 (Annex 5-4). GPEA's overall operating ratios, including
depreciation on revalued fixed assets in use, will improve from 109% in
1985 to 72Z in 1995. The debt service coverage by internally generated
cash will decline to 1.1 in 1992, at the peak of debt service charges,
but thereafter will gradually improve to 1.5 in 1995. The financial
rate of return on net fixed assets in use after periodic revaluation
will improve from a negative value in 1985 to 11.9% in 1995.   The
perceived benefits from improvements in port operations will be passed
on to shippers and shipowners who could easily absorb the real term
tariff increases, assumed in the forecasts at 15% in June 1989 and 10%
in January 1991, as a fair compensation for these benefits.
5.08      As mentioned earlier,  the above forecasts used a constant
exchange rate of US$1 - ¢ 90. Even though, in the past couple of years
there have been some major devaluations of cedi value, the present
exchange rate is still overstated.   The cedi value is expected  to
decrease further in future, and, if so, the financial situation would
show an increase in revenues as part of the income is earned in foreign
exchange.
5.09      None of the three entities (GPA, GCHC & TLC) had a satisfacto-
ry cost accounting system. As a result, the tariffs are levied sepa-
rately by each entity; they are cumbersome and it is difficult for the
clients to estimate the cost of services particularly the stevedoring
and shorehandling costs. There is a need to simplify, consolidate and
standardize the tariffs. Through the technical assistance component of
the project, consultants will be hired to establish a port cost account-
ing system, to improve tariff structure and levels of the ports, and to
create a costing section and train the local staff, all by January 1,
1988 (para 5.12(g)).
5.10      Cash Flows and Balance Sheets.  Detailed cash flow and balance
sheet forecasts for 1985-95 for the reorganized GPHA are provided in
Annexes 5-5 and 5-6, and a summary cash flow follows:



- 23 -
Summary Cash Flow of GPHA for 1985-95 Period
(Cedis million, in constant prices of January 1986)
Sources of Funds:                                                     z
Internal Generation                                       10,293     59
Borrowings:  IDA                     1,967
OECF                   2,193
Saudi Fund             1,049
EEC                      613
Gvt. loan to cover import tax        1.308                 7,130     41
Total                                                     17,423    100
Application  - Funds:
Investments -      -ct( including duty tax)                7,361     42
u.  .-                                        900       5
Debt Service Charges                                       6,569      38
Increase/(Decrease) in Working Capital                     2,260      13
Cash Surplus                                                 333      2
Total
17,423    100
Over the forecast period, GPHA's total sources .  funds would comprise
59% from internally generated cash and 41Z from borrowings.   If the
financial forecast assumptions turn out to be correct, including traffic
and tariff increases, GPHA would be financially self-sufficient during
the forecast period, including self-financing of the replacement of some
assets. GPHA, however, will have to avoid incurring major investments
or borrowing funds in addition to the amounts indicated above. This was
agreed during negotiations and a debt limitation covenant was included
in the Project Agreement (para 5.12(c)).
5.11      GPHA should periodically carry out the revaluation of fixed
assets by qualified experts and should apply price indexing between
these revaluations. A gradual adjustment has been made to bring the
accounts receivables down to an acceptable level of 60% in 1986, 50% in
1987, 33% in 1988, 25% in 1989 and 1990 and not more than 20% annually
thereafter (para 5.12 (d)). Current and liquid ratios remain at satis-
factory levels during the forecast period and close to 2.5 and 2.0
respectively in 1995.
5.12      Based on the above assumptions and expected results, agreement
was reached during negotiations with the Government and GPHA on the
following:
(a) GPHA will ensure that:
(i) in the short term (1986 to 1989). all necessary measures
will be taken to increase tariffs to absorb inflationary
cost increases and to generate funds sufficient to cover
operating costs, maintenance and administrative costs,
and interest charges on loans;



- 24 -
(ii) in the long term (beyond 1989), action will be taken to
increase tariffs to generate cash sufficient to cover all
operating costs including adequate regular repairs and
maintenance, debt service charges (interest as well as
repayments which will commence from 1992) or depreciation
on revalued assets, whichever is higher, and a minimum of
25Z of future rehabilitation and replacements of assets;
and
(iii) GPHA, before November 30 of each fiscal year, will inform
the Association, for review and comments, its plan to
increase tariffs in the following year, and take other
actions as necessary to achieve the above stated finan-
cial objectives;
(b)  GPHA will achieve  the  following overall  operating  ratios
included as targets in the Plan of Action (Annex 2-10):
1986      1.00                      1991      0.80
1987      0.97                      1992      0.79
1988      0.96                      1993      0.75
1989      0.87                      1994      0.74
1990      0.85                      1995      0.72
ic)  unless otherwise agreed by the Association and excepting the
debts to be incurred as per the proposed project, GPHA:
(i)  would not incur any other debt of more than one year
maturity during the implementation period (up to 1990),
and
(ii) thereafter, would not incur debts of more than one year
maturity if the net operating revenue of GPHA for the
fiscal year or the  12 consecutive months immediately
before the date of incurrence, whichever is greater.
would be less than  125Z of the maxlmum debt service
charges of any succeeding fiscal year on total debts of
GPHA, including the debt to be incurred.
(d) GPHA's fixed assets would be revalued at least every four
years, beginning 1986, and annual cost indexing would be used
for the years between revaluations.  The results of these
revaluations would be certified by qualified auditors and
would be regularly incorporated in the balance sheet. The
Association will be provided with full reports, up to 1994, on
revaluations for review and comments;
(e) GPHA will improve its billing system and credit policy, and
the levels of accounts receivable to total operating revenues
will be adjusted to a satisfactory level of 60% in 1986, 50%
in 1987, 33% in 1988, 25% in 1989 and 1990, and not more than
20% thereafter;



- 25 -
(f) Government will sign on-lending agreements with GPMA on IDA
and other cofinanciers'  funds  (para 3.15).  The Government
loan to GPHA to cover import tax will also be on similar terms
as those of IDA on-lending (para 3.13); and
(g) GPHA will, with the help of consultants, (i) install a port
cost accounting system, (ii) set up a cost-oriented tariff
structure and levels, (iii) establish a cost accounting
section; and (iv) train the local staff in the Finance Depart-
ment.
5.13      A sensitivity analysis was carried out to determine the impact
on GPHA's financial rate of return of variations in certain project
parameters  from those values assumed in the forecast.   Three risk
elements have been considered: (a) if tariffs in real terms do not
increase as forecast (Annex 5-1); (b) if traffic does not increase as
forecast (Annex 2-3); and (c) if the revaluation results are different
from the forecast.  The results indicate that GPHA's financial perfor-
mance is very sensitive to changes in tariff and traffic volume (Annex
5-1). Therefore, GPHA and the Government shou16 ensure that tariffs are
increased as needed so that agreed financial targets are achieved. In
the case of slower traffic growth, tariffs may have to be increased even
higher than anticipated; this is feasible since the proposed tariff
increases are relatively low (para 5.06 and Annex 5-1).
C. Accounting, Auditing and Insurance
5.14      The accounting and auditing systems under the GPA, have been
satisfactory; however, there have been delays in completing annual
accounts and audit, and the agreed action plan presents a timetable for
completing pending annual accounts and audits (Annex 2-10). Consultants
(para 2.15) are helping GPHA to set up and codify new uniform accounting
and auditing procedures. During negotiations, GPHA agreed to engage
qualified independent auditors acceptable to the Association for the
timely audit of GPHA accounts, including the Special Account and amounts
withdrawn on the basis of SOEs. The audit report together with the
management letter, would be furnished to the Association not later than
five months after the end of each fiscal year. It is expected that GPHA
will be able to submit to IDA GPA's 1982 audit report by March 31, 1986,
and 1983 and 1984 reports by June 30, 1986; submission of these audit
reports is a condition for credit effectiveness.  Annex 5-7 presents
more details of the audit/account system in the GPA before reorgani-
zation.
5.15      Insurance.  At present, GPHA does not seek reinsurance cover-
age in foreign exchange for items insured through national firms.
During negotiations, GPHA and Government agreed to take a foreign
reinsurance policy for floating crafts and shore cranes.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During  negotiations,  in  addition  to  standard  covenants,
agreement was reached on the following points:



- 26 -
(a) the port agencies, including the two private stevedoring
firms, will continue to retain a minimum of 20% of their
foreign exchange earnings to meet the foreign exchange compo-
nent of their future maintenance and rehabilitation needs; a
larger percentage should be allowed if assessed needs in any
year exceed the amount accumulated under this arrangement
(para 2.09);
(b) the new container company (see para 6-02(a) below) to be
operational within 12 months of its incorporation (para 2.13);
(c) GPHA to operate on sound commercial principles, and to allow
semi-autonomous status for the two ports (para 2.14);
(d) GPHA to implement the Action Plan agreed during negotiations,
to strenigthen its mana2ement and operations (para 2.15);
(e) GPHA to reinforce the present role of private stevedores who
handle 25X of stevedoring operations in the ports; GPHA would
complete a study, before March 31, 1989, on increasing private
sector share in port operations, and in light of review of the
above study, agree with the Association on a plan for enhanc-
ing the private sector role from January 1990 onwards (para
2.16);
(f) a study of customs and port documentation procedure should be
completed before December 31, 1986, and an implementation
program and timetable acceptable to the Association should be
prepared before June 30, 1987, and implemented accordingly
(para 2.17);
(g) any fishing port investments of GPHA should be self-supporting
through fishing port revenues; GPHA should consult the Associ-
ation before undertaking new investment projects costing more
than US$1 million per annum, before 1995 (para 3.04);
(h) terms of reference for the various technical assistance
positions, a recruitment program for the experts, counterpart
arrangements-for the experts, and transition arrangements for
expatriate line managers (para 3.08);
(i) training program and arrangements, and terms of reference for
training experts (para 3.09);
(j) Government to defer import taxes on project imports due from
GPHA, and treat the amount due as loan to GPHA, on the same
terms  as  applicable  to  the  on-lending  of  IDA  funds
(para 3.13);
(k)  terms of the on-lending Agreement between Government and GPHA
for IDA's and co-financiers' funds (para 3.15);
(1) detailed activities of the PCU and its responsibilities (para
3.16); procurement procedures (para 3.19);



- 27 -
(m) disbursement procedures, and operation of revolving funds
(Special Account and Project Account) and SOEs (para 3.22);
(n)  in the short term  (for 1986-1989): increase tariffs, reduce
costs, and generate funds to cover total operating costs and
interest charges on loans (para 5.12 a (i));
in the long term: increase tariffs and generate funds to cover
total operating costs, debt service charges or depreciation.
whichever is higher, and minimum of 25Z of future rehabilita-
tion and replacements of assets (para 5.12 a (ii));
(o) debt limitation (para 5.12(c));
(p) revaluation of fixed assets (para 5.12(d));
(q) improve billing system, credit policy and accounts receivable
(para 5.12(e));
(r) GPHA to establish a costing section, port cost accounting
system and tariff structure and level (para 5.12(g));
Cs) audit covenant (para 5.14); and
Ct) GPHA to ensure foreign reinsurance of floating crafts and
shore cranes (para 5.15).
6.02      The following are Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a) the incorporation of proposed new container handling and
storage company with majority private sector participation
(para 2.13);
(b) signing of cofinancing agreements between Government and
cofinanciers (para 3.14);
(c) signing of on-lending agreement for IDA funds between Govern-
ment and GPHA (para 3.15);
(d) establishment of PCU, and appointment of its key staff
(para 3-16);
(e) appointment of engineering consultants for supervision of
project works (para 3.16); and
(f) submission to IDA of GPA's audit reports for 1982, 1983 and
1984 (para 5.14).
6.03      Subject to the above terms, the proposed project is suitable
for a Credit to the Government of Ghana in the amount of US$24.5 million
equivalent, on standard IDA terms.
WAPT1
March 1986



- 28 -
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transport Sector: Details
1.        Ghana's road network comprises about 28.300 km of classified
roads, of which about 6.000 km are paved, and the remainder are gravel
or earth surfaced.  The road system is further classified as about
14.130 km of trunk roads (including 3,780 km of primary roads, 9,580 km
of secondary roads, and 770 km of town roads) and about 14,160 km of
feeder roads. Additionally, there are 6,000 km of village tracks and
private mining and timber company roads. About 70X of trunk roads and
80% of feeder roads are located in the southern half of the country
where population and economic activities are concentrated.
2.        Traffic volumes are heaviest near the Accra-Tema area (the
country's capital and main port).  Traffic on the major arterial roads
radiating from Accra is about 3,000 vehicles per day (vpd) near the
city, and about 1,500-2,000 vpd towards Takoradi and Kumasi. Most other
trunk roads carry between 200-750 vpd, while traffic volumes in the
northern half of the country are much lower than in the south. Feeder
roads have generally from 10 to 100 vpd. In general, traffic volumes
have declined recently due to the fall in production levels and the poor
condition of roads and shortage of vehicles. Fuel consumption data show
an almost steady growth of 31 per annum on average from 1970 to 1981,
and a 401 decline from 1981 to 1983. It further increased by 8% in
1984. It is estimated that 1001 of all gasoline and 631 of diesel
supplies are used in the transport sector.   With the expected evaila-
bility of larger fuel imports, vehicle spare parts and an upturn in
economic activity, traffic levels should rise again in the near future.
3.        The  road  transport  industry  is  made up  of  three  major
state-owned companies, one large and some 170 medium-size and small
private trucking companies (owning 4-5 vehicles on average), numerous
individual truck owners/operators, and a large number of private bus and
other passenger transport operators. Of the three state companies. the
State Transport Corporation (STC) provides trucking services for public
sector goods and scheduled inter-city passenger bus services while the
Omnibus Services Authority and City Express Services, two similar
companies which are likely to be merged in the near future, provide
public passenger transport services in major cities and surrounding
rural areas.  Though these public sector companies do not receive
Government subsidies, Government is currently studying the possibility
of reorganizing them in a wore efficient manner. Entry in the transport
market is free. Any Ghanaian owning a road-worthy vehicle and valid
insurance coverage can operate goods or passenger transport services
along any route he chooses without Government licensing. Private and
state companies compete for available demand although the public sector
agencies have to call on STC first before approaching the private
sector. Transport tariffs are set by MOTC, based on a fairly thorough



- 29 -
Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 6
analysis of vehicle operating costs and take into account, to some
extent, the higher black market prices to be paid by private sector
vehicles operators for purchasing various inputs. Official rates, which
are adjusted frequently in line with changes in price levels, are
strictly applied by the state companies while private companies fre-
quently charge more; actual rates in rural areas are reported to be
often 4-6 times higher.
4.        The fleet of privately owned road-worthy vehicles has de-
creased by about 6% between 1979 and 1983 and now stands at about 74,000
units. The average age of the fleet is estimated at well over 10-15
years as there have been only minimal imports of new vehicles over the
recent past.   The percentage of vehicles actually on the road was
estimated as low as 30% of the fleet in mid-1983 due to lack of tires
and spare parts, but may be about 65Z by end 1985 largely due to the
assistance of IDA and other donors in financing imports of tires and
spare parts. It is hoped that future import needs could be sustained by
easier availability of foreign exchange following the success of the
economic recovery efforts, supplemented by continued foreign assistance;
Government's ongoing efforts in reviving local production of tires and
spare parts would also help in tackling this problem.
5.        Concerning road administration, public roads come under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH), which operates
essentially through two agencies, the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) for
trunk roads, and the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) for feeder roads.
In 1983, a third agency, the Department of Urban Roads (DUR), was set up
under MRH to look after urban roads, but its role and functions are yet
to be properly established; meanwhile, urban roads are presently under
the technical control of GRA. The organization of MR1, with its present
structure (GHA, DFR, DUR and their parallel regional units) is ineffi-
cient and needs restructuring. The Government, with assistance from
UNDP, appointed consultants in December 1984 to study the reorganization
of the various agencies under the Ministry (MRH). Under te-ms of the
Credit Agreement with IDA for the recently approved Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance  Project  (RRMP)  (Cr.1601-GH),  Government  agreed  to
implement, by December 31, 1985, a reorganization plan for MRH in the
light of the consultants' study. Such reorganization is expected to be
implemented on schedule.
6.        GHA was established in 1974 as an autonomous body with its own
Board of Directors appointed by the Government; recently, the board was
replaced by an interim Management Committee. It has a staff and work
force of about 8.400, spread over one central office in Accra, 10
regional offices and 32 main district offices.   It carries out the
majority of routine maintenance and part of periodic maintenance of
trunk roads through its own work force; all other periodic maintenance
and construction/reconstruction works are done through contractors.
administered by GRA. During 1984, approximately 5% of routine mainte-
nance, 75X of periodic maintenance and 100X of construction/re-construc-
tion-works were done by contractors, and the rest by GHA work force. In
terms of overall costs, cortractors executed about 802 of the works and



- 30 -
Annex 2-1
Page 3 of 6
GRA about 20%.  DFR has a staff and work force of nearly 2,000, and
functions as a Government department without much autonomy. It deals
with feeder road planning, construction, and maintenance, through its
central, regional and district offices. Feeder road construction and
maintenance (other than routine maintenance) are being done almost
entirely through contractors, administered by DFR.
7.        The roads sub-sector is possibly the most afflicted part of
the transport sector in Ghana. Despite Government's efforts under the
Bank Group's Second and Third Highway Projects (paras 2.20 and 2.21).
only about 20-25% of actual maintenance needs of the road system have
been met during the past 10-12 years, the percentages being even less
recently. As a result, road conditions in Ghana have deteriorated to
such an extent that some important road sections have become practically
impassable, and road transport costs are high all over the country.
According to data compiled by GHA, the approximate condition of trunk
roads (paved and gravel) is 15% good, 40% fair, and 45% poor (moderate
to severe failure). Average vehicle operating costs are estimated to be
about 15Z higher for "fair", 40Z higher for "moderate failure", and 65%
higher for "severe failure", compared to "good" roads. The Road Rehabi-
litation and Maintenance Project approved by IDA in 1985 is designed to
improve road conditions.
8.        Lake Transport.  Transport on the Volta lake is operated by
the Volta Lake Transport Company Ltd. (VLTC), whose sole shareholde- is
the Volta River Authority. The lake transport facilities are currently
being expanded with the help of a bilateral credit from the Federal
Republic of Germany. VLTC carried about 12.000 tons of goods and 53,000
passengers in 1983.
9.        Concerning civil aviation, Ghana has one international airport
at Accra and domestic airports in Kumasi, Sunyani, and Tamale, main-
tained and operated by MOTC's Department of Civil Aviation. Available
infrastructure appears to be sufficient for present low traffic volumes.
Annual traffic at the Accra airport in 1980-82 averaged 2,205 aircraft
movements,  114,000 passengers, and 2,220 tons of freight.  Accra is
served by a number of major international carriers and by Ghana Airways
Corporation (GA), the country's national airline, established in 1958.
GA, which owns a small fleet of four aircraft, operates flights to
Europe and the West African coast and provideb domestic services. The
company has been financially troubled for many years.  Government has
indicated that GA is now working as a commercial entity, and no subsidy
was given to it during 1983 and 1984.  During 1984, it produced a net
profit after taxes of about 150 million cedis, which is a positive
indication for the future. In the context of a recent study (1985) of
state-owned enterprises in Ghana, initiated by the Bank and UNDP,
varicus measures for improving the operations of profitability of GE are
currently under review.
10.       Mainly due to the physical deterioration in rail capacity,
Ghana's rail system is at present unable to carry even its own captive
traffic in manganese ore and bauxite for export. In view of the vital



- 31 -
Annex 2-1
Page 4 of 6
importance of the railways to Ghana's mineral exports, IDA approved in
FY81 a project (Credit 1170-GH) for US$29 million equivalent with
parallel financing of US$13 million from African Development Bank
(AFDB).  The aim of the project is to rehabilitate the Western line
which is the principal export corridor of the country and to revitalize
management, operations and maintenance through appropriate inputs of
training and technical assistance.
11.       This project has, however, faced many implementation problems.
The project was initially delayed by about 18 months due to a change of
Government. Subsequently, project inputs have been delayed by nearly 18
to 24 months due to a complex mix of critical factors: slow procurement,
due to the time taken to train local staff in ICB procedures; total
absence of credibility in the supplier's community, resulting in the
dilatory process of Letters of Credit being preferred to direct payment
by the Association after certtfication by the Ghana Railway Corporation
(GRC); delays in the issuance of import licenses; and the failure of
local suppliers to supply timber sleepers, the lack of which triggered a
run-away increase in derailments inflicting severe damage on track and
wagons, which went beyond the project provision. Many of these problems
reflect the general economic political difficulties faced by the Govern-
ment during the period. However, the Government has acted positively,
although belatedly, and has set up the necessary incentive framework to
encourage sleeper production and supply. The supply has now stabilized
at a satisfactory level. Special purpose sleepers have to be imported;
these imports are currently underway with funds reallocated within the
IDA Credit. Procurement of other inputs are well under way, and overall
rehabilitation works have made good progress by end-1985. The track
condition has been substantially stabilized, and locomotives and commu-
nication systems will be stabilized and improved during 1986. The
Western line is expected to become operationally stable during 1986, and
thereafter to progressively attain the revised project traffic projec-
tions with a slippage of about two years 1/.  Present traffic trends
justify these expectations, as freight traffic in 1985 was about 40%
over the 1984 level.
12.       The delay in project completion has also led to continued need
for subsidies from Government, even though GRC successfully reduced
staff strength from 11,500 to 7,000 as agreed with the Association, and
also raised tariffs by 350% in 1982 and 110% in 1984. However, the
minimum wage was doubled in December 84 and therefore, the project
aspiration to phase out subsidies by 1986 would have to be extended to
1988 or 1989.
1/   Since appraisal assumptions had changed, traffic projections were
revised, and economic viability re-examined in 1982, before project
effectiveness.



- 32 -
Annex 2-1
Page 5 of 6
13.       Transport Sector Issues.  The Transport Sector Strategy Note
(TSSN) (para 2.20 of SAR) provides a reference point for further action
and follow-up by the Government and the Association. Solutions to the
main sector issues highlighted by the TSSN bave already been agreed with
Government in the context of the recent (June 1985) Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Project. These actions include: (a) setting-up a Road
Fund for financing road maintenance. and its funding through road user
charges mainly in the form of higher fuel taxes; (b) regular review with
IDA of Government investment plans and prograis in the transport sector
to ensure prioritization of investments; and strengthening of transport
planning in the country through technical assistance for planning units
in the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC), the Ministry of
Roads and Highways (MRH), the Ghana Highway Authority (GRA) and the
Department of Feeder Roads. Items (b) and (c) are further discussed
below (paras 14 and 15).
14.       Investment Planning.   A major  transport  issue  relates  to
investment priorities and allocation of adequate resources for rehabili-
tating the transport sector.  Investment planning has been weak and
needs strengthening.  It is important that (a) rehabilitation of the
transport sector should receive high priority in allocation of resources
in view of the dilapidated condition of the basic transport infrastruc-
ture and its key role in facilitating economic recovery; (b) funding for
high priority projects should be adequate, while funding for
non-priority projects should be excluded; and (c) there should be proper
monitoring of progress in project execution and financing. Accordingly,
the Government and the Association agreed under terms of the recently
concluded Credit Agreement for RRMP to: (a) a joint review annually
between 1985 and 1990 of Government's annual investment program for the
transport sector for the three years subsequent to each review, begin-
ning with the period 1986-88 and including detailed physical work
programs and projects in all transport modes; and (b) monitor jr'ntly
implementation of the programs at six monthly intervals.   A Public
Expenditure Review conducted by Bank staff in collaboration with the
Government of Ghana during May-June 1985 identified a core public
investment program for transport and other sectors for 1986-88.   A
further review of this program is currently under way and wi-: be
completed by .une 1986.
15.       Strengthening of Transport Planning.  To provide sector-wide
planning support for Ghana's transport sector, the Government, the UNDP
and the Association have recently prepared a coordinated program, which
will be largely financed by UhlDP. rne program provides for technical
assistance and other support tc strengthen planning units in MOTC, GRA
and DFR. The planning units will, in coordination with one another,
prepare investment plans for the sub-sector concerned, conduct project
evaluation, improve collection and analysis of statistics, and conduct
studies and analysis of transport problems, with expatriate assistance
as needed. Further, as part of reorganization of MRH, UNDP will assist
in setting up a Budgeting, Planning and Programming Department in MRH.
MRH will monitor and coordinate the road planning work done by GHA and
DFR, and also coordinate with MOTC and the Ministry of Finance and



- 33 -
Annex 2-1
Page 6 of 6
Economic Planning, in sector planning.  IDA's assistance consists of
about US$500,000 for the MOTC Planning Unit reallocated under the
ongoing Railway Rehabilitation Project, and US$250,000 for the GRA
Planning Unit  from RRMP.   Selection  of  consultants as  residential
experts In Ghana and for the various studies is now under way.
16.       Bank Group involvement in the Transport Sector.  Basic infor-
mation on thic is presented in paras 2-21 and 2-22 of SAR. Additional
information on the program-type emergency credits with transport compo-
nents is given below: The Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC-I; US$40
million ) approved in June 1983, and already fully committed, provided
US$18.7 million for import of tires, spare parts and batteries, mainly
for the private  road  transport  sector.   The Export Rehabilitation
Project (ERP; Credit GH-1435 for US$76.0 million, approved in January
1984) provided US$4.8 million for emergency assistance for ports, and
US$4.3 million for cocoa transport (para 2-12). Its companion project
for Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance (ERTAP; Credit GH-1436
for US$17.1 million) includes US$0.9 million for technical assistance to
the ports subsector (para 2-13). The Reconstruction Import Credit II
(RIC II; Credit GH-1573) provides US$60.0 million, of which about
US$15.0 million is expected to be spent for financing imports for the
transport sector, predominantly for the private sector.
WAPT1
March 1986



- 34 -
Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 6
GRANA
Ports Rehabilitation Project
Existing Port Facil}ties and Organization
Introduction
1.        The ports of Tema and Takoradi - Ghana's only commercial
ports, which were considered until the late sixties and early seventies
among the fastest and most efficient ports on the West African coast are
now considered among the region's most inefficient ports. This change
was caused mainly by:
(i)  severe deterioration in the physical conditions of the
ports'  infrastructure,  facilities  and  breakdown  of
equipment, caused mainly by lack of maintenance;
(ii)  inefficient organization of the port sub-sector; and
(iii)  weak management of the individual port agencies.
Port of Takoradi
2.        The port of Takoradi, the country's first deepwater port,
started operations in 1928. Takoradi is located some 250 km west of the
country's commercial and industrial centers around Accra and the Tema
port. In the early fifties major developments took place in the port:
A sophisticated handling system for logs and sawn timber was built and
equipped with  overhead  cranes  and  tpecialized  sheds.   Cranes were
erected on the west quay for out-lc.ading of cocoa onto barges to be
transferred to the ships moored on buoys in the port basin. Manganese
iron ore and a bauxite loading systems were constructed. The port
developments were completed in 1954. The design of the port and its
modern facilities enabled fast and efficient operations giving Takoradi
the title of the fastest port in West Africa.  Since the completion of
works in 1954 no new investments in facilities or major equipment were
made. The lack of preventive maintenance, caused largely by shortage of
fore'gn exchange to import spare parts and building materials, has
resulted in total deterioration of equipment and facilities.
3.        The port's main facilities comprise:  (See Map IBRD No.19251)
one oil berth, located outside the port basin on the lee breakwater; one
bauxite loading berth, located outside the port basin on the lee break-
water; one clinker unloading jetty, located outside the lee breakwater;
one manganese loading system, located at berth No.1 of the main quay;
five general cargo berths on the main quay; one cocoa lighters
loading-berth, located at the west quay in front of the cocoa sheds; one
log basin used for assembling log rafts; one sawn timber basin and
sheds, used to load sawn timber into lighters; 9 mooring points in the
port basin, and one small slipway and dry dock for repair of port
floating craft. The main wharf for general cargo and manganese ore



- 35 -
Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 6
(berths 1 to 6) is 960 m long, of which manganese ore berth occupies
220 m; it has no back-up area for general cargo. The general cargo
berths (1-5) have a length of 740 m, equivalent to about 4 standard
berths.  Because of the sinking of a fishing vessel alongside berth 6,
present general cargo quayage is effectively equal to 3 standard berths.
Port of Tema
4.        The large and modern dee;water port of Tema, just outside
Accra was completed in the early sixties mainly to handle the increasing
demands for imports destined for Accra and its hinterland.  However, as
in Takoradi, lack of basic maintenance and spare parts has led to the
deterioration of the facilities and equipment.
5.   The port's main facilities comprise: (See Map IBRD No. 19250) one
oil berth located at the outer south breakwater; one alumina berth
located at the lee breakwater; 12 multi-purpose berths (of which one is
reserved for navy vessels and harbor crafts), subdivided in 3 sections:
Section 1 - Berths 6 through 12 - 1,600 meters long
Section 2 - Berths 4 and 5       -   400 meters long
Section 3 - Berths 1 and 2       -   400 meters long;
a fishing port, subdivided for coastal and deep-sea fishing vessels, dry
dock and repair facilities; one grain unloading system; and one cocoa
loading system.
Note:     A detailed description of port facilities in both ports is
presented in Project File Document No. 227.513.
6.        Most of the port facilities and equipment have had no regular
maintenance for about the last 10 years. Even an anti-corrosive paint
needed to protect the ports' floating crafts has not been available for
years. As a result, and due to the old age of equipment, most of the
cargo-handling equipment and floating craft in the ports remain practi-
cally unserviceable, as noted below:
Equipment
7.        (i)  Our cf the sixty-nine forklift trucks in Tema only eight
were in working conditions in early 1984, whereas the
port's needs would be at least 100 units.
(ii)  Out of Tema's and Takoradi's three tug boats only one vas
in adequate working condition in early 1984, creating a
dangerous situation in handling ships and mainly oil
tankers.
(iii)  Out of Tema's 21 shore cranes only 6 may be salvaged and
only 4 cranes on the cocoa berth out of Takoradi's 19
cranes can be restored.



- 36 -
Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 6
Plant
8.       (iv)  Navigational aids are not functioning effectively Ilmit-
ing arrivals and departures of vessels to daylight hours.
(v) Lighting within the ports is poor or non existent causing
work performed during the hours of darkness to be less
productive and creating serious security risks for the
goods being handled or stored in the ports.
(vi)  Fire fighting equipment (until end-1985) was either non
existent or corroded to such an extent that it was not
useable. The oil terminals have reached a severe state
of decay and together with the lack of adequate safety
equipment they constitute a real danger to the ports.
Oil spillages and lack of spill collecting equipment
create conditions where fire at the terminals could
result in a major disaster.
(vii) Transport facilities for the work force are unpredictable
and frequently not available.  This is another factor
which affects productivity, and it also provides ready
made reasons for late starts and early finishes to work,
further   undermining   discipline   within   the   total
work-force.
(viii)  Communications are a major problem.  The internal tele-
phone system breaks down frequently and the external
telephone system rarely functions. Communications within
the ports are mainly by walkie-talkie and between the
ports by ship phone radio.
Infrastructure and Facilities
9.        (i)  Quay and road surfaces are broken with large "pot holes"
causing damage to equipment.
(ii)  Drain and man-hole covers are either broken or missing
resulting in similar damage to equipment.
(iii) The apron surface behind the quay wall and the railway
and crane rail foundations have subsided to such an
extent at some berths that it has become virtually
impossible to effectively operate mechanical equipment at
ships alongside the quays.
(iv)  Roofs  of  sheds,  offices  and buildings  leak,  causing
damage to cargo; quay shed doors have corroded to the
point where they cannot be opened. In some storage sheds
only one door is operable, seriously hampering the
receipt and dispatch of goods.



- 37 -
Annex 2-2
Page 4 of 6
(v) Quay-side coping blocks and ladders are broken and
fenders are missing increasing the potential for damage
to vessels when berthing.
(vi) The rorts' basins and approaches are strewn with unmarked
wrecv. causing danger to navigation.
(vii)  Siltation in the Ports.  Due to the poor condition of
CPA's only dredger, maintenance dredging has been ne-
glected for some years, and there is accumulation of silt
in the ports, mainly along side the berths, reducing
permissible drafts. The accumulated dredging backlog is
some 20-30,000 m3 in both ports. The ports did not have
(until early 1986) a survey launch to measure the prerent
draft  position  accurately.   However,  rough  readings
available show that the deep water berths I and 2 (in
Tema) which have a designed alongside draft of 11.5
meters have presently only about 10 meters draft, while
the berths 6 to 12, which had a designed draft of 9.4
meters, have only about 8.5 meters at present.   The
position is even more severe in Takoradi where the bulk
ships carrying bauxite and manganese ore regularly sail
under-loaded because of the siltation and low drafts.
Ports Subsector Organization
10.       Until the creation of GPHA (para 2.10), infrastructure and
installations in both ports were owned and operated by the Ghana Ports
Authority (GPA), which was a statutory Government corporation set up by
a Government Decree on June 10, 1977, following the separation of the
ports from the Ghana Railway and Ports Authority.   Cargo handling
operations were performed by two public sector companies, the Ghana
Cargo Handling Company (GCHC) and the Takoradi Lighterage Company (TLC),
along with two private stevedoring firms. Detailed description of the
organization, staffing and finances of GPA, GCHC and TLC is presented in
Project File Document No. 224-762. The staff and labor force inherited
from the three agencies by GPHA number about 8000, including about 2200
casual workers, spread over the two ports (see Annex 3-4, Attachment I
for details).
11.       Main operators within the ports with lease arrangement with
CPHA are: Volta Aluminium Company Ltd. (VALCO), which has a factory
close to Tema for producing alumina for exports and operates a special-
ized berth in Tema; Ghacem Ltd. which has cement, clinker/gypsum grind-
ing plants just outside the port areas in Tema and Takoradi. for produc-
ing cement for domestic consumption, and operates a specialized clinker
jetty in Takoradi for handling barges bringing clinker off-loaded from
ships; the Ghanaian-Italian Petroleum Company (GHAIP) which operates a
specialized oil berth in Tema for importing crude oil for its refinery
and for the limited import and export of products, and also operates an
oil berth in Takoradi port; Tema Food Complex Corporation (TFCC) which
is a public sector firm that operates a large flour mill outside Tema



- 38 -
Annex 2-2
Page 5 of 6
port for the milling of imported wheat and has its own pneumatic dis-
charge facility at berth No. 10 in Tema for receiving bulk grains, this
discharge facility being currently under rehabilitation under a TFCC
rehabilitation project financed with OPEC Fund's assistance; Ghana
National Manganese Corporation (GNMC) which operates bulk storage and
mechanized loading facilities from a specialized manganese ore berth in
Takoradi; Ghana National Bauxite Company (GNPC) which operates a specia-
lized bauxite storage and loading facility in Takoradi and the Tema
Shipyard and Dry Dock Corporation (TSDDC), which is a ship repair
facility adjacent to the Tema Port. TSDDC is a Government-owned com-
pany; Government of Ghana has recently offered to sell it to the private
sector, Ghanaian or expatriate. More details on these organizations are
presented in Project file documents No. 244-762.
Po. t productivity and freight surcharges
12.       Port productivity levels are very low, and are presented in
para 2.08 and Annex 2-7. Ship-time spent at berths due to low handling
rates, is excessive. During 1983 and early 1984. ships also had to wait
before being berthed, due to the congestion caused by poor port effi-
ciency, and partly due to the bunching of food-import ships carrying
food for famine relief in Ghana. All ships that visited Tema in Febru-
ary 1984 faced an average 4 days pre-berthing delays, the distribution
being about 2 days for general cargo ships and one month for food grain
Import ships.  As a result of various interim measures taken (para
2.09), pre-berthing waiting is not significant at present. Most ship-
ping lines imposed a "Ghana port additional" of about US$6 per ton from
1981 onwards, mainly due to the poor efficiency at Ghana's ports; some
shipping lines still keep this surcharge. Liner freight rate for Ghana
(current average US$60 per ton) increased by 16X during 1982-84, even
though, during this period, petroleum prices declined by about 30%, and
the Manufactured Goods Unit Value (compiled by the World Bank) declined
by 4Z, thus reducing many ship-related costs. Such freight rise partly
reflects absorption of the surcharges into general freight rates, due to
port inefficiencies in the West Africa range of ports.
Relative position of the two ports
13.       Between the two ports, Tema is a more modern port, with better
physical infrastructure, more berths, storage facilities and back-up
areas, than Takoradi. It has a more favorable location, being close to
the main population and commercial center of Accra, and is better
connected, by the road system and road/lake transport, which is being
improved, to the eastern region and the northern half of Ghana. Though
it iz connected to the railway system, the rail capacity remains limited
due to lack of rehabilitation. Because of its better facilities and
hinterland connections, Tema handles most of the general cargo imports
for Ghana. Its cargo mix is more diversified and of higher unit value
and therefore, provides a better base for port revenue. Takoradi, on
the other hand, has much older facilities, and mainly handles low-value
export cargos of bauxite and manganese ores, logs, and about half the
sawn timber and cocoa exports.   It has  specialized facilities for



- 39 -                      Annex 2-2
Page 6 of 6
handling bauxite, manganese, and logs. Its main strength is its close
location to the mining centers and timber producing areas, and a rail
connection (western line) to carry such traffic to Takoradi, which is
being rehabilitated (see para 2.06), and is supplemented by road connec-
tions.   Because of the low share of general cargo imports and the
dominance of low-value ore traffic, it has a lower revenue base than
Tema. And yet, diversion of all Takoradi traffic to Tema can be ruled
out on economic grounds, because such diversion would require new
investments in specialized port facilities in Tema, and would involve
higher transport costs.
WAPTI
March 1986



fall EIUILIITAISU PUECI
csnot ad Praelute Traffic Tirei Ukm* Puti, 1975-IM5
lie tkmseud tousD
---I     ---  ----II-- -       -------------------- - -                ---------ut.   -Pro- ected-------- -I---------  -            -c -a--- -let.----              Projec------. ...   ....   -------.....--..-                    Lt.        --.Pojctd--.
I                       ~~~~~~ ~~~1 1915  191    Ills      1914      1915     m  IK  1901191591                  59ils 0   19913      914      19115191         190    1995111975            191       596       5914       591       I111     599059955I
ILiquid hit                       I                                                                           I
Icrude 0il                        5    524?      5049        542       774   so0       90       900     51005                                      I                                           5 241     50ow       562       774       in0       90      90   5500I
IlIhfIeed Oil                     I                          944                                              I      57        40        49        55   55        500      500      12051        57        60       59"        55         55       In0500          In92
Iky hit                           III
kale                     2e,~~~~~~  Ra,   120       112        9     70       500       10   10SWI nea                33        55         I          I    s5      50       505I         0       153       127                   To 7     Its    550      ISO0I
lAleesia                          5     340        459        75                       ISO      210       2705I                                                                          I      340       of9        73          0         0       IS0    270    27105
ICeast Clleer                     5     299        179       147       153   ISO       ISO      240      2905       357       554        63        93   500       120      200      2005 I      6Il       335       250       244       23         300    440      4901
I ffeeg  crelao                   5     330        504       354       395   400       420      400      530 1      110        45        45        40    40        70       90       12051      440       569       357       035       460        490     570    6502
I  TOTAL INUTS                    I    2237       2330      5358      1412  1540      1750    200       2390 I    484         310       565        194   223      305      440      490 I    2725        244       1524      1bM        5673      205     2440   2U11S .I
I   ------  -                   I                                                                            I                                                                          I
I                                 I                                                                           IS  
lLiquid hult                     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
Peel Oil                         .      II7       270        t07       140   Iso       150      550       Psi                                                                            1      591       210       107       944       550        550    950       7551
IPetrelvee  Products Icoactal) I          37        60        09        55      4      500      500       520 I                                                                          I       57        60        09        55          A       too    200    520 I
Skry hlkIIt 
lunAlte                          I                                                                            1  331          207        32        44   100       3o00         350 351         33         207        32        44       500       300  3503511s 
IlaqamesuOre                      I                                                                           I.353           234       529       2625  30 00              400      450 1       35        234       529       242       29         300400  45021
1                        1~~~~~                                                                                                                                    ~ I9 
SAIieaag  lSets,i etc.           I     934        173        70          I             70      100       150 I                                                                          I      134       173        70          '0                 70     10   10 150
I--     .I                                                                                                                                                                               I                                                                              I
lLegs                            I                                                                            1  405           14        43        53  60          00      ISO      5502       445         74        03        33        40        SO      ISO    150 1
Slieil idif                       I                  5        23        355   4o         0      120      15021    557          41        39        31  55          SO      I30      910 1       157        62        54        73        151       5o2503001
ICKce.ehae                        5      554       569       l09       122   555       135      545       INS   134            6         57        30    40        SO   50  100  10             290       235       1614      142        555       215    245    2002
1eueras Curp                      I     520         07        22        52  60          45       00       90         46        52         7        lOSS5           25       30       402   1 6             99        29        62         is        to0150134 1
I   ---------                    I                                                                            I.. ~ "   ..                        ~..5 *I                                     .....I
1   TOTAL IMUI II IIN TS    I    2ml              300       t7in      loll  1131    2356       265    34 15    INS            970       557       43    77       5170    5400      57702      4772       4060      225       2444      264        350    429    OWlI



f6IS 1 ENAIM LITAIS1' FiO2ECT
Recunt and Projectd Traffic Threulh Sane Forts, 1975-1591
(in tboused tonrl
I                                        TErd                           I                                      TAKRADI                                              TOTAL9 FM  TEA lMi TMNAK     I:
COMI6OTIES            I -----         tt--- kbalr---------------  Est.    .     P cKtd ----    I ------ A kctual------------    fit.   ----Projected ---             --   --- ----ktual-----                   t.      --- Project----  I
I                               1  5975    I50         593       5964    lYS   196    5910    15995  1  1975    5930           96       5964     5       19        90    195        9t75    1990      1963     I4        1995      19W      1990  1595  I
l_-------------  -  ----------.--.....................----------------------.........I................. .-.-_- I-.--------------.......-.---...--------------------------..............------------------------_-_---_-----_--_____-_ | 
I   TOTALSlY TYPEF tCAMI
I     LIEI PA1K                 I    1492      5396       644       973   956    5S50    1150    5295 i        57        40        49       55    55      100      100      120 5    1549      1456       953      1026     loll      120   120    1415 5
I     NV WLt                    1      195      935       404       244   210      50       710     7701   1006         432      269       407   460      735    1000    5050 1    5803        1543       493       455      73       1235   5159   5020 1
I     OTHER 611 NVD             I     604       7t1       470       594   425      00       635    1020 1    61l        273       I71      III   230      335      500      400 1    1420      1039       049       745       55      1055  3135   1420 I
I I                                                                                           ...............   sllllsste ..............  - . I|  a as  as a. gs."ls Bss la aa  aaxtat  stWawsstOatt W       1       nzz also""         .      ............... assamax
I         t&lAI5 lOIN.               26l9      3090      5136      55ll  5S31    2330    2695    3W5         lNSI       970      517       633   773   5170    5600    1770 5    4772          4O0O      2255     2444      2404      350    42      4155
I Split of OHER MY    I60I
X   . .--------------------
I     bret  tulk                       6 e04    712       372       477   500      4%0      465     570 1    614        276       166      150   215      321      450      500       1420      990       540       437       717      SOI    935   1070 1
I     Coetuinseoild                      0       49        96         57  126      200      350     450         0         0        11       5t    13        55      SO      500o                 49       509       526      li3       215    400  S5:
I       Caatuaen s              I
I           leae- ltd (Ititsl    ;       0     4a6       9755    11701512550   2000    35000   45000            0         0      1110     1140  1250    1450    50O    10000 1           0     4696    I645    12641    13600    21450  40000  5500 1
I             ptv- uty Suit,,   1        0     30S96     Sl7       6717  6050    6000       900   10200 5       0         0        40       75   120      500    2000    4200            0     3094      5227     3792      as70      4500  55600  14400 1
I            - total (unitsl  1          0     7994    14922    20418 20600   2e00O   44800   55200 I           0         0      5570     1215  1370    1950    7000   14200             O     7"4      1402    21533    21970    27fO  55600   9400 I
boteni Logs and timber contvwted at I caic et er     I ton.
-       A 6PA's freight ton figures converted at I Ireilh  ton 2 0.6 ton.
Sources DA 4or post  ot^las me  staff  siteates  or projections.
WTI
North 5964



GHANA
PORTS REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Recent and Prored Tr_ffloI   -1995
MA PORT
In '000  (TONS)
350
3000                                  
2500\
2000-                   \ 
1500-
1000                                                                             -
500-                     .. .e %
0~~~~~~~~~~~
O~~~~ ~                -            -                     .00                     Uauld Bulk 
1975       1980       1983       1984       1985        1988       1990       1995
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff Estimates
WAPT 1
.c .    ,,-S.                    . 6



GHANA
PORlS READIBAJAlON PROJECT
Recent and Ithd Tmff-r, 1a5-t99-
TAKORADI PORT
ln'000   iTOONS)
2000-
1500-
1000~~~~~~~~~~
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
dp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
1000      \                                                      /       '/             1 *-  
500-~~~~~~~~
-            -X L,i"                            o /  Uguld Bulk
0-,           ,T*w                                             '' 
1975        1980        1953        1984        1985        1988        1990         1995
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff Estimates
WAPT1
March 1986



GHANA
P01RT REHABIITATION PROJEC
Rcent cind ftba      Tffl  1975 - 1995
TWkA AND TAKORI POR1S
In '000 (TONS)
5000_
4500 \
4000
3500-                       
2J00
2a000
e.0t <               Uauld Bulk
197       1980       1983        1984       1985       1988i      1g0        t9 5
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff Estimates
WAPTI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
arch 1986                                                                                        ;
tSac198              193         19919518819019



- 45 -                         Annex 2-7
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Port Productivity Data
A. Estimates for 1983 and 1982 (Tema)
For General Cargo Including Bags                1981    1982
Tons per ship working hour                     20.1       16
Tons per Stevedore-gang-hour (loading)          5.0      3.7
Tons per shore-gang-hour (including stacking)
(loading)                                     2.6     2.1
B. Estimate for 1985                TEMA                           TAKORADI
Tons per   Tons per Ship-   Tons per    Tons per Ship-
Ship-Hour Day at Work        Ship-Hour   Day at Work
(1)             (2)             (3)            (4)
Bulk Grain                    50             600              50            600
Cement Clinker                75             900              60            900
Logs                           -               -              60            720
Cocoa Beans (bags)            50             400              25            200
Sawn Timber                   30             240              30            240
Break-Bulk Cargo              20             160              20            160
Containers                    10              80               8             64
(in Twenty Foot Equivalent
Units, TEU)
C. Expected productivity levels, on project completion (1990)
TENA                          TAKORADI
Tons per Ship-Day at Work   Tons per Ship-Day at Work
(1)                           (2)
Bulk Grain                           2400                          1600
Cement Clinker                       2200                          1600
Logs                                 -                             1400
Cocoa Beans (Bags)                   1400                          1400
Sawn Timber                           850                           850
Break-Bulk Cargo                      420                           420
Containers (TEU)                      250                           200
Note:  Average working hours per day in (1985) for bulk cargo and
logs is about 12, and for general cargo about 8. These would
increase to about 16 and 14 respectively. after project
completion.
Source: 1981 and 1982 data from analysis done by Ghana Shippers' Council
(Project File Document No. 227.393); Data for 1985 and 1990 are
based on consultants' and Bank staff estimates.
WAPT1
March 1986



-46-
Annex 2-8
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Framework for the New Container Handling
and Storage Company at Tema Port
A. BACKGROUND
1.        Handling  of  containers,   including  their  stuffing  and
un-stuffing operations and storage,  is presently done at Tema Port
inefficiently, due to inadequacies in facilities and management.
(Takoradi port does not have much container traffic). At present the
GPRA is the main agency responsible for these operations.  Container
traffic in Tema is expected to increase from about 20,000 units in 1985
to about 45,000 units in 1990. Under the proposed port rehabilitation
project, a paved container yard, fully equipped, is proposed to be
provided, at the back of berths 10-12 in Tema Port. The Government of
Ghana has agreed to hand over the operations of this new facility to a
new container handling company with majority participation by the
private sector, to be operated by private management. GPHA will be the
minority share holder of the company (paras 2.12 and 2.13).
2*.       Government and GPHA have invited proposals from interested
firms and negotiations are in progress. It is expected that the new
company will be incorporated by end of June 1986, and will start opera-
tions within 12 months after incorporation, in a temporary container
yard to be initially provided by GPHA, pending completion of a full
container yard to be built under the proposed project.
General Outline
Government  and GPHA agreed,   during negotiations,  on  the
following main features of the new company (referred below as the
Company):
(1)  The facility will be open to all present and future
users.
(2) The Company will be responsible for all shore-handling,
stuffing, un-stuffing and storage operations of contain-
ers  in  Tema  port.    Its  functions  will  include
shore-handling of containers along-side ships and move-
ment of containers between shore, container yard and port
gates.
(3) enterprises in the private sector satisfying criteria set
forth below shall be eligible to hold shares in the new
Company:



- 47 -
Annex 2-8
Page 2 of 3
(a) An enterprise to be so eligible must be a single
firm or a limited liability company (or a group
thereof not exceeding three) whose objectives
include or which is qualified to carry out container
handling operations.
(b)  Such company or firm must have at least 5 years
experience in shipping or cargo handling operations.
(c)  Preference will be given to firms or companies with
experience in container terminal operations.
(4) The GPHA should lease the initial tranche of the contain-
er related facilities and equipment to the Company for at
least 5 years and at rates sufficient to enable GPHA to
recover interest, depreciation and a reasonable propor-
tion of overheads.
(5) After the expiry of the 5 years' lease of GPHA's facili-
ties to the Company, GPHA may sell the container related
equipment at appropriately depreciated values to the
Company.
(6) GPHA and the Company should consult each other on the
composition of the initial equipment, and the design of
the facilities, which GPRA is to lease to the Company.
(7)  The Company should establish and thereafter maintain a
maintenance fund adequate to cover the regular mainte-
nance costs of its equipment and facilities.
(8) GPHA would assist the Company, if needed, in securing
foreign exchange for spare parts and other foreign
exchange expenses, through GPHA's retention account (para
2.09).
(9) The chief executive officer of the Company shall be
selected by a majority of the holders of the Company's
voting shares under the provisions of the Company's Code.
The management of the Company shall be assigned to
private sector managers appointed by the Board of Direc-
tors of the Company
(10) The Company's tariffs and service charges shall be set at
levels adequate to provide investors in the Company with
a reasonable return on their investments based on effi-
cient operations and after meeting all operating costs
and depreciation charges.
(11) details of operational arrangements and financial norms
will be worked out with the assistance of qualified and



- 48 -
Annex 2-8
Page 3 of 3
experienced consultants to be employed by GPHA, and in
consultation with the Association.
(12) Until full facilities are available under the Project,
GPHA will provide interim facilities to enable the
Company to be operational in the Port of Tema within 12
months after its establisbhent.
WAPT1
March 1986



GHANA-PORTS REHABILJTATION PROJECT
ORGANIZAMONAL FRAMEWORK OF GPHA
(0) HEAD OFFICE
BOARD
EC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
WAff                     CrAFF~~~~~~U4W    O
c26    tvto    iolfw"nIurn-uo    $am   CAWLM
MOTO--MINOW OF TRANSPORT  COMMUNICATIONS        EVURY  SRUUIIIO
S                         E~~~~~~~~~~W
NJ
MT-IINISR OF TRNSPORT & COMMUNICATiONS
oa -DIRECTOR-GENERAL
WAPTI, MARCH 1986                                           WORLD ANK-303EUil



GHANA-PORTS REHABIUTAllON PROJECT
ORGANIZAllONAL FRAMEWORK OF GPHA
(11) INDIVIDUAL PORTS
DIRECTORt OF
PORT TEMOA
OR TAKORADI
HARBOR    PORT      ANS              FL           NNELN.                      RA
AER  E E                E                  E  A             ER  AUDITOR  OFFI 
STAFF         STAFF         STAFF         STAFF          STAFF
m m
0 I
WORLD 3NK-50I4W



i  51 -                    Annex 2-10
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Action Plan for Strengthening Port Management
and Improving Port Operations
It was agreed during negotiations that the following actions
according to the timetable shown shall be undertaken by GPHA, the
Government and other agencies as applicable:
Action
A.   Port Organization                                   Date
1.   Formally restructure GPHA manage-
ment, according to the organiza-
tional framework set out in Annex B
and appoint all department heads
in the headquarters and individual ports.          Sept. 30, 1986
2.  Employment of Port Management
Advisors and Line Managers for
strengthening management.                          Dec. 31, 1986
3.   Appointment of counterparts for
above positions.                                   Dec. 31, 1986
4.   Establish port regulations to define
limits of spending and other authority
of the two port directors and department
heads in consultation with the Association.        Mar. 31, 1986
5.  GPHA to agree with the Association on terms
of employment of container handling expert for
the new container company.                         Jun. 30, 1987
B.   Projact Management
1.   Establishment of Project Coordination Unit,
and appointment of Project Coordinator,
Procurement Specialist and Senior Project
Accountant.                                        Jun. 30, 1986
2.   Appointment of Consulting Engineers for project
supervision                                        Jun. 30, 1986
3.   Appointment of project implementation
committee.                                         Jun. 30, 1986
4.   Preparation of detailed list of workshop
equipment by Consultants                           Mar. 31, 1987



- 52 -                     Annex 2-10
Page 2 of 3
C. Training
1.   Appointment of Chief of Training.                  Jan. 31, 1987
2.   Appointment of Training Committee                   Feb. 28, 1987
3.   Preparation of detailed training
program by Training Director.                      Mar. 31, 1987
4.   Agreement by GPHA and the Association on
training program.                                  May 15, 1987
5.   Appointment of training
specialists and instructors.                       Jun. 30, 1987
D. Tariff Reforms
1.   Introduction of uniform tariffs
and billing system after merger
of GPA, the Ghana Cargo Handling
Company, and Takoradi Lighterage Company.           Sep. 30. 1986
2.   Complete study to rationalize tariff structure
in two poits,by the costing and tariff expert
employed, and in the light of revaluation
of assets.                                         Jul. 30, 1987
3.   Implement new tariff system.                        Jan. 1, 1988
E.   Port Statistics
1.   Establish an adequate port statistical and
management information system, and a
system of port performance indicators, in
consultation with the Association.                 Jun. 30, 1987
F.   Review of Private Sector Role
1.   Employ consultants, in consulta-
tion with the Association, for study
of an increased role for private sector
firms in port cargo handling operations.           Jan. 31, 1989
2.   Complete above study.                              Mar. 31, 1989
3.   Agreement with the Association on measures
for increasing private sector role.                Jun. 30, 1989



- 53              ~         Annex 2-10
Page 3 of 3
G.   Investment Plans
1.   Preparation by GPHA, or Consultants,
of a port investment plan for 1991-95
with preliminary engineering and economic
feasibility.                                          Jun. 30, 1989
2.   Review with the Association.                           Dec. 31, 1989
H.   Wage System and Manning Levels
1.   Introduce piece-rate system (incentive wages)
for main sections of port workers.                    Dec. 31, 1987
2.   GPHA to study and present to the Association
proposed man-povTer plan and manning levels
for 1988-1990.                                        Jun. 30, 1987
I.   Operational Targets
1.   GPHA to observe following operating
ratios (financial):
1986 - 1.01        1991 - 0.82
1987 - 1.00        1992 = 0.82
1988 - 1.00        1993 - 0.79
1989 - 0.92        1994 - 0.77
1990 - 0.90        1995 = 0.76
2.   GPHA to raise port productivity levels as expressed in average
cargo tonnage handled per ship-day at work. for operations at
berths in Tema and Takoradi, as follows:
Tons per Ship-day
Estimated
Item                Port                       Output       Target Output
1985      1989       1990
CDcoa Exports             Tema                        400      1,000     1,400
(non-containerized)
Takoradi                    200     1,000      1,400
Sawn Timber               Tema & Takoradi             240       500        850
(non-containerized)
Logs                      Takoradi                    720     1,000      1,400
(stream moorings)
Break Bulk General
Cargo                     Takoradi & Tema             160       300        420
WAPTl
March 1986



Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Details of Project Works
A. Port of Tema
Proposed
Financing
Agency                     Item                              Quantity
Paving and Road Works
SF        Resurfacing concrete paving - quay aprons         42,000 m2
SF        Bituminous surfacing and road repair              28,000 m2
SF        Bituminous resurfacing and rebuilding -
approach road                                     13,000 m2
SF        New concrete and bituminous surfacing -
Ro-Ro area                                        15,000 m2
SF        New bituminous surface entrance/exit road         10,000 m2
SF        Container handling area incl. hard standing,
gravel stacking beds and yard gantry
foundations                                       20,000 M2
Marine Works
SF        Replacement fenders and fittings - quay face        2,200 m
SF        Armor and rockfill - existing breakwaters         12,500 m3
SF        Construction of Ro-Ro ramps - existing quay         2 units
IDA       Rehabilitation works - small fishing port
Building Works
IDA       Rehabilitate 4 cocoa sheds at 11,000 M2 each      44,000 i2
IDA       Rehabilitate 5 transit sheds and warehouses
at 5,000 m2 each                                  25,000 M2
SF        Dismantle and re-erect transit shed on new
foundation                                         5,000 m2
Mechanical, Electrical Works
IDA       Renewal - port's electric power and lighting system   unit
IDA       Replace machinery - sewage pumping stations            unit
IDA       Renew generator and equipment - lighthouses               2
Miscellaneous
SF        Repair of surface drainage system                     650 m
SF        Repair and replacement of quay-side crane rails    1,500 m
SF        New crane track foundation and rails for quay-side
crane                                                 550 m
SF        Repair and replace security fence                   1,000 m



- 55 -                    Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 2
B. Port of Takoradi
Proposed
Financing
Agency                     Item                               Quantity
Paving and Road Works
EEC       Resurfacing concrete paving - quay aprons           13,000 m2
EEC       Bituminous resurfacing - Lee breakwater access
road and hardstanding                               6,500 m2
EEC       Filling and new concrete surfacing - container
stacking area                                       4,250 m2
EEC       Gravel surfacing - log storage area                 12,000 m2
Marine Works
EEC       Replacement fenders and fittings - quay face
main wharf                                            950 m
EEC       Replacement cope beams, fenders and fitting
lighter wharf                                         200 m
EEC       Armor and rock fill - main breakwater               12,000 ms
EEC       Underpinning and rock armor - lee breackwater          650 m
EEC       Resurfacing repairs and upgrading of west and
lighter wharves                                     6,000 m2
Building Works
IDA       Rehabilitate one transit and two timber storage
sheds                                              10,000 m2
IDA       Rehabilitate 2 cocoa sheds at 11,000 m 2           22,000 m2
Mechanical, Electrical Works
IDA       Renewal - port's electric power and lighting
system                                                  unit
IDA       Repair and renewal - slipway and drydock                unit
IDA       Renew generators and equipment - lighthouses                2
Miscellaneous
EEC       New crane beam and rails - main wharf                    400 m
EEC       Repair and replace security rence                        400 m
Additional Marine Works
IDA       Repair of clinker jetty                                 unit
IDA       Repair of oil berth                                     unit
IDA       Removal of wrecks in both ports                            15
Notes
SF : Saudi Fund
EEC: Eu;opean Economic Community
WAPT1
March 1986



- 56 -                                Amex 3-2
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Equipment
A.   Items - OECF Financed
(i)  Port of Tema                        Nos        Unit Cost      Total Base Cost
US$'o00         US$'000
Cranes
Multi purpose 35 ton shore crane   2                2,320          4,640
240 TM mobile crane                 1                 522            522
120 TM mobile crane                 1                 255            255
5,417
Fork Lift Trucks
40 Ton Capacity                     2                 290            580
10-15 Ton Capacity                  2                 116            232
8 Ton Capacity                      4                  83            332
5 Ton Capacity                      10                 46            460
3 Ton Capacity (Shortmast)          8                  _3            304
t,908
Tractors
Tow Tractors                        4                32               128
Ro-Ro Tractors                      13               70              910
1,038
Trailers 40 Ft. Gooseneck           13                 25            325
Floating Craft
2000 HP Tug Boat                    1               1,392          1,392
300 HP Pilot Launch                 1                 139            139
1,531
Materials for Civil Works
Rails                               LS                               49.'
Lighting and Power                  LS                               580
Fenders                             LS                               377
1,450
Workshop Equipmenc                  LS                               500
Miscellaneous incl. Vehicles        LS                               600
Sub-total (i)                                                     12,769



57 -Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 3
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sumary of Equipment
A.    Items - OECF Financed (Cont'd.)
(ii)  Port of Takoradi                          Nos       Unit Cost    Total Base Cost
Us$vooo         Us$ 0o0
Cranes
15 Ton Log Cranes                          3          580            13740
10 Ton Grab Cranes                         2        1,044            2,088
ETC Timber Shed                           15            52             780
240 TM Mobile Crane                        1           522             522
53130
Fork Lift Trucks
10- 15 Ton Capacity                        1           116             116
5 Ton Capacity                            10            46             460
3 Ton Capacity (Shortmast)                 3            38             114
690
Log Loaders                                3           261             783
Tractors
Ro-Ro Tractors                            10            70             700
Rail Shunters                              2            58             116
816
Trailers
40 Ft. Gooseneck                          19            25             475
Cocoa Conveyors                           16            17             272
Floating Craft
3-00 HP  Pilot Launch                      1           139             139
300 HP Lighter Tug Boat                    2          232              464
125 HP Lighter Tug Boat                    1          116              116
60 HP Mooring Launch                       2            23              46
60 HP Steel Boat                           1           81               81
100-120 Ton Capacity Lighter              12           93            1,116
200 Ton Capacity Water Barge               1          290              290
2,252
Materials for Civil Works
Rails                                     LS                            58
Lighting and Power                        LS                           197
Slipway and Dock Yard                     LS                           661
916
Workshop Equipment                        LS                           900
Misc. Equipment Incl. Vehicles            LS                           400
Sub-Total (ii)                                                      12,634
TOTAL of A (OECF)                                                   25,403



58 -                           Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 3
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Equipment
B.    Items - IDA Financed
(i)   Port of Tema                         Nos.      Unit Cost         Total Base Cost
US$'000           US$'000
Grab Dredger                         1              1,622            1,622
Computer Equipment and
Accessories (MIS-GPHA)               UP                                480
Misc. Equipment Incl.
Communications, Vehicles             LS                                250
Rehabilitation Existing
Equipment                            LS                                300
Sub-total (i)                                                        2,652
(ii)  Port of Takoradi
Buoy Barge                           1                348              348
Misc. Equipment Incl.
Communications, Vehicles             LS                                130
Rehabilitation Existing
Equipment                            LS                                140
Sub-total (ii)                                                         618
Total of B (IDA)                                                     3,270
Notes: Figures slightly different from Annex 3-5, due to rounding.
Costs exclude contingencies.
LS - Lump sum estimate.
WAPT1
March 1986



-59 -                 Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Details of Technical Assistance and Other Services
1. Technical Assistance
(a)  GPHA - Head Office                               man
Months       Status
-    Management Information (MIS) Specialist    24            Line Manager
(LKO
-    Costing and Tariff Specialist                10          LM
-    Port Economist/Statistician                   6          LM
Sub Total                                   40
(b)  GPHA - Tema Port Management
-    Port Operations Manager                      24          Line Manager
-    Harbour Master                               12          Advisor (A)
-    Port Marine Engineer                         12          LM
-    Port Mechanical Engineer                    24           LM
-    Finance Manager                              12          LM
Sub Total                                   84
(c)  GPHA - Takoradi Port Management
-    Port Operations Manager                     24           LM
-    Harbour Master                               12          A
-    Port Marine Engineer                        24           LM
-    Port Mechanical Engineer                    24           LM
-    Dry-dock/Slipway Master-Mechanic             12          LM
-    Finance Manager                              12          LM
Sub Total                                  108
(d) Container Company-Tema
-    Operations Advisor                           18          A
(e) Follow-up Project and
Miscellaneous Studies                            15
Total. Technical Assistance                265
2. Training
-    Chief of Training                           36           LM
-    Training Specialists in various
port activities                             36          A
Total, Training                             72
3. Project Supervision and Coordination
-    Project Coordinator                         36           LM
-    Procurement Specialist                      18           LM
-    Engineering Supervision (Consulting
firm)                                       96          A
Total, Project Supervision and Coordination           150
UAPT1
March 1986



GHANA - PORTS REHABIUTATION PROJECT
DISTRIBUllON OF TECFHNICAL ASSISTANCE, GPHA HEAD OFFICE
MGMO
of oro 
CHIEF OF       PE42NONN.       FINANCIAL        MIS AND         I HIUNAL          IN             Pam1            PRJEST
I TAIWNING          AND       ICONTROLLER         PLANNMING        AUDITRCHE                       $marrIy        COONtUINA-
AONINIIIUAIION                                                                              11mi  PGNIIII
IPCOMST                                   WATI                                                            MANASE1111I  a
IAN 
ATANIFF  IPICMLIST. ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     NOOM  W
UPICIAIJP. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUCWMN
NOTE:
MOo  - MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS
DO    - DIRECTOR GENERAL
LM    - UNE MANAGER
A     - t.3VISOR
*     - DENOTE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
WAPT Is MARCH 1066.                                                                                                WORLD BANK 303460



GHANA - PORTS REHABIUTAllON PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AT INDIVIDUAL PORTS
F-  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AGER1,1    6N~          PRAO3         HNO                      ESNEL         TRAINING    I N%Fm        SCRTY        MM
HMO     IL        Of~~~~ENiffEERl  HMARI                   ANGMANAGER                AUDITOROFIE
Ala                   MANAI    I
II MAl NE
MOTCm MINISTRY OF TRANSPORr & COMMUNICATIONS
OO  - 1) REETOR  ENRAL
A   -ADVISOR
*   - DENOTE TECHNICAL ASSSANCE
WAPT I, MARCH 1986.                                                                                    WORL SANK 303490



- 62 -
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Training Program
General
1.        Currently, GPHA has no permanent training organization charged
with staff development.   Before reorganization,  training used to be
carried out on a "ad hoc" basis by GPA's personnel division using
in-house and external facilities. The existing in-house facilitics are
inadequate for all levels of training and, while national training
institutions are of a good standard, it appears that in recent years,
GPA has not been making use of these institutions on a regular and
systematic basis.
2.        GPA's training needs as well as those of GCHC and TLC, have
been reviewed by experts of Portia Management Services, Ltd. (Liverpool,
U.K.) and UNCTAD (Geneva). Both agencies recommended needed reforms,
including a comprehensive program of training, retraining and upgrading
of most of GPA, GCEC and TLC staff. Details are presented in Project
File Documents No. 224.762 and 226.386.    These recommendations fully
apply to GPHA, which has been formed by merging GPA, GCHC and TLC.
Training Strategy
3.        For practical purposes, the overall training strategy would be
addressed in three stages and will involve technical assistance staff
(line managers, advisors, a director of training and training special-
ists/instructors), ports personnel, and local instructors:
Stage 1: Technical assistance staff to be engaged as Line Managers,
Advisors, and Training Specialists/Instructors' positions at GPHA
headquarters and both Tema and Takoradi. These staff would, among
other things, design the management systems requiree in terms of
responsibilities for groups and individuals, documentation flow,
communication and statistical back up.
Stage 2: The "management systems" would then be translated/con-
verted into training courses by the consultant training staff to
meet the trainees' needs.
Stage 3: Upon completion of theoretical training, trainees would
return to their units where they would receive continuous practical
experience under the supervision of their immediate line managers.
Existing Manpower and Training Needs
4.        A survey of existing manpower of GPA, GCHC and TLC indicates a
total of about 5,600 personnel permanently employed by those agencies
(Attachment 1 presents details). GPHA has inherited all these staff and



- 63 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 4
workers. Of these, about 50% are made up of management, supervisory
staff,  clerical  and  skilled  workers;  the  remaining  50%  being
semi-skilled laborers and dockers. Skilled labor hitherto employed by
GPA was made up oE 40% in civil engineering (carpenters, plumbers, mason
and metal workers); 40% in electrical and mechanical engineering; 10 in
marine engineering;  and 1OZ in crane operations.  At GCHC and TLC,
skilled workers were involved in maintenance of cargo handling equipment
and maintenance of marine craft. The actual staffing requirements and
training needs can be determined only after the recently formed GPHA has
fully settled down, and the related job distribution and staff changes
take place.
5.        Based on estimated personnel  requirements under the GPHA and
a preliminary survey of training needs, some 900 skilled personnel would
need to be trained and upgraded, including about 300 equipment opera-
tors. The actual number of personnel expected to be trained during the
project's life will depend on the knowledge and skills of the trainees,
the number of available instructors, and the number and duration of
courses which can be conducted each year.
Training Program
6.        Primary responsibility  for  executing  the  training program
would rest with GPHA's training organization, which will be strengthened
with the help of training experts and a Chief of Training provided under
the project. The training program includes: (i) the strengthening of
GPHA's training capability; (ii) the building of 4 classrooms at Tema
and 1 classroom at Takoradi; (iii) the purchasing of training equipment
and materials; (iv) the organization of periodic short seminars and
other special courses; and (v) training abroad (fellowships, interna-
tional seminars, conferences) for responsible staff and senior
instructors.
7.        GPHA will set up a Training Committee which would consist of a
small group of GPHA's executives whose main functions would be to define
training policies, determine the areas of training and assist in pro-
gramming the implementation of training activities, as required. One of
their first tasks would be to issue an effective policy statement on
training which would authorize and support staff development. GPHA's
training capability would be strengthened and expanded by setting up a
permanent training structure. This would consist of a training depart-
ment  within  GPHA's  headquarters,  responsible  mainly  for  planning,
coordinating, costing and general supervision of all training activi-
ties, and a training division in each port (Tema and Takoradi) to be
responsible  for designing,  implementing, supervising and evaluating
agreed training courses/programs.
;   8.    Training of operations personnel would be carried out partly
at the Regional Maritime Academy (Tema) and the Railway Training Insti-
tute (Takoradi) where additional classrooms will be built under the
project. Training of mechanical personnel would be conducted mostly on
the premises of the ports' workshops.  In addition to some general



- 64 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 4
theoretical courses, the training of mechanics would focus on the repair
of equipment under the supervision of experienced uechanical instructors
thus enhancing GPRA equipment maintenance capabilities and raising its
level of equipment availability.  Training or upgrading of forklift
operators as well as other mobile equipment operators vill include
famLiliarization with equipment in the mechanical workshop and practical
experience in driving and operating it in a purpose-built training area
in which driving hazards and obstacles encountered in the work areas can
be safely simulated. All contracts for equipment suppliers/ manufactur-
ers would include provision of the services of technicians to train
selected equipment operators and mechanics on operation and maintenAnce
of new equipment.
9.        Suitable national training institutions such as the Accra
Technical Training Center (ATTC), the Management Development and Produc-
tivity Institute (MDPI), the Ghanaian Institute of Management and Public
Administration (GIMPA), and the National Vocational Training (NVTI) in
Accra would be contacted and an agreement reached on courses which could
be conducted by them.
10.       Training equipment consisting mostly of audio-visual training
aids would be provided under the project. As far as possible, port
training courses already developed by UNCTAD and other srecialized
agencies would be used following necessary modifications. Main training
courses would cover the following (Details are in Annex 4 of Project
Document No. 226.386):
(a) improvemnt of port management and port operations with target
population being senior and middle management of GPHA.
(b)  improvement of port planning and maintenance with  target
population being Ministries of Transport, Planning and Finance
and senior managers of GPHA;
(c) improvement of port financial policy, port pricing and cost
accounting with target population being relevant ministries as
in (b) above plus GPHA middle and senior staff;
(d) training on legal rules and practices with target population
being relevant ministries and senior management of GPKA; and
(e) training of stevedoring and cargo handling supervisors for
increasing productivity in various port handling operations,
the target population being the reorganized GPA and the two
private stevedoring firms operating in the ports;
11.       Seminars on topics related to port management operations,
maintenance, accounting and general administration vould be conducted
periodically by experts financed under technical assistance.



- 65 -
Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 4
12.       The program would also include short courses abroad (fellow-
ships) for about 12 selected staff and 6 Ghanaian instructors requiring
training and/or upgrading.
13.       All training activities would be Implemented by the Training
Department (GPHA-Headquarters) and Training Divisions (Tema/Takoradi),
which would initially be supervised by expatriate experts - a Chief of
Training and three Training Specialists/Instructors (see Attachment 2).
Other technical assistance staff financed under the project will contri-
bute to the training effort within the limits of their other responsibi-
lities. The satisfactory execution of the training program will depend
upon thorough coordination among GPHA training staff, the technical
assistance experts, and the Ghanaian staff dealing with operations and
maintenance in Tema and Takoradi.
Implementation of Training Program
14.       In view of the recent restructuring of GPA, GCHC and TLC into
GPHA, the training program would start only after the reorganization
process has been completed and the staffing allocation and placement
have been substantially completed.   During negotiations,  an outline
training program as presented here and terms of reference for experts
have been ageed; it was also agreed that a detailed program will be
finalized as part of the action plan agreed between IDA and GPEA (see
para 2.15 of the SAR text, and Annex 2-10). Such a program will be
prepared by the expatriate Chief of Training to be appointed and will be
finalized by GPHA in consultation with the Association, before May 15,
1987.
EDTPT/WAPT1
March 1986



- 66 -
Annex 3-4
Attachment 1
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Existing Manpower (December,1985), at GPA, GCHC and TLC
Permanent Employees and Casual Workers
(As inherited by GPHA a.fter merger)
A. Permanent Employees
G. P. A.      G. C. H. C       T. L. C.               TOTAL (GPHA)
Tema   Tako-   Tema   Tako-  Tema   Tako-   Tema   Tako- Overall
radi            radi           radi           radi   Total
Senior/Middle
Management             93      69      12        2     -      20    105       91      196
Supervisors           197      95      81      28      -      15    278      138     416
Clerks                197     122    578      175      -      65    775      362    1137
Skilled Workers       346     208    166       79      -      52    512      339     851
Semi-Skilled          513     407    103       67      -       -    616      474    1090
Laborers              415     568       -       -      -      37    415      605    1020
Dockers                 -       -    769      203      -       -    769      203     972
TOTAL              1761    1469   1709      554      -     139   3470    2212    5682
B. Casual Workers
In addition, registered strength of casual dockworkers is reported to be:
Tema: 1,500
Takoradi:    700
Source: GPA
WAPTI
February 1986



- 67 -
Annex 3-4
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Training Program
(US$'000 Equivalent)
Man
Description                                     Month   Local       FC   Total
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
- Director of Training
- Training Specialists/Instructors               36       65     190     255
Container/Cargo Ops. - Tema                         12      20      58      78
Cargo/Log Ops. - Takoradi                           12      20      58       78
Port Administration/Finance and Statistics          12      20      58       78
Subtotal                                            72     12M     364     489
CONSTRUCTION AND FITTINGS:
-  4 Classrooms at RMC - Tema                             16     114     130
-  1 Classroom at Railway Institute Takoradi               4      16      20
Sub-total                                              20     130     150
TRAINING EQUIPMENT
- 2 IBM PC's (Micro Computers
with Word Processing)                                        10      10
-  6 Overhead Projectors                                           3       3
- 2 Sets Reproduction Equipment. )
(Stencil Reproducer           )                              10      10
Gestetner 444S                )
Printer - Gestetner 480 )
-  1x35mm Camera (w/lenses & Stand,etc.)                           1       1
-  3 x Slide / Sound Projectors                                    2       2
-  1 x Photocopier                                                 5       5
-  Consumables                                                    30      30
- Miscellaneous Items                                             19      19
Sub-Total                                                      80      80
TRANSPORT
-  4 x Mini Buses                                          8      72      80
-  Spares and Running Costs                                2      18      20
Sub-Total                                              10      90     100
INSTRUCTORS (Ghanaian)
- Supplemental Salary, 6 Instructors                      30       -      30
X 36 m/i X $120/Month (60C0 cedi's/month)
Sub-Total                                               30              30
TRAINING ABROAD (Fellowships)
6 Instructors, each for two months
-  6 Airfares X 1500          -  $ 9,000
-  60 days X 6 X DSA $100    -   36,000
-  Course Fees                    12,000
$57,000                 _        57      57



- 68i -
Annex 3-4
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Training Program
Man   Local     F/C   Total
Month
12 Senior Staff, each for two months
-  12 Airfares X 1500        -   $18,000
-  60 Days X 12 X DSA $100  -    72,000
-  Course Fees - 12 X 2000  -    24,000
-  $114,000                  -      114     114
Sub-Total                                              -      171     171
SUMMARY COST OF TRAINING
Man
DESCRIPTION                                     Month   Local      F/C   Total
- Director of Training (1)                       36       65     190     255
- Training Specialists/Instructors (3)            36      60     174     234
CONSTRUCTION AND FITTINGS:
- Classrooms (5)                                          20     130     150
TRAINING EQUIPMENT
- Audio-visual Training Aids)
- Miscellaneous              )                                    80      80
TRANSPORT
- Mini Buses, Spares, Etc.                                10      90     100
INSTRUCTORS (Ghanaian)
- Supplemental Salary for 6 Instrutors                    30       -      30
TRAINING ABROAD (Fellowships)
- Instructors (6)                                         -       57      57
- Senior Staff (12)                                       -      114     114
TOTAL TRAINING (Base Cost)                                 185     835   1,020
Contingencies                                               34     155     189
TOTAL TRAINING AND CONTINGENCIES                           219     990   1,209
WAPTI
March 1986



-69-
GHAN                                         Aimex 3-5
PoRTS REHIiLITATIO  PIECT                               Pal. I of 3
SUmary of Cost Estiutes
Us  000                        Cedis  000
Local Foreiqn  Total           Loal Foreign    Total
A. VOW
A.I Port of Tem
lil Civil vorks:
(a) Paving and road works                   720   640   7160              $900  579600   44400
(bh  Harin  works                           220   1270   1490             1900  114300   134100
g auilding works                            750   2230   2980             67500  200700   2800
Subtotal                                  1690   940  11630            152100 894600  104700
(ii) lechanical and electrical works          360   3200   3560             32400  299000   320400
(iii) Hisc. uwrks(rails,fences,utilities)    200    920   1020              10000   73900    91000
Lue Cost o4 A. 1                                 2250  13960  16210           202500 125600  1459900
Contingecies - Physical                           450   2792   3242            40500  251290   291790
- Price                            545   3393   3929            49050  304470   353520
Total Cost A.1                              3245  20135  23390           292050 1912150  2!042OO
A.2 Port of Takoradi
(i) Civil works:
(a) Paving and road Norks                   202   184B   2050             19180  166320   184500
(hi larine mwrks                            515   2934   3449             46350  264060   310410
(cl Building morks                          100    290    390              9000   26100    35100
Subtotal                                  817   5672   5999             73530  456460   530010
(ii) Hechanical and electrical works          200   1900   2000             19000  162000   180000
(iiil lisc. workstrails.fences,utilities)    146    571    717              13140   51390    64530
(iv) Repair of oil and clijiker jetties       200   It50   1350             10000  103500   121500
Bas-Cost of A.2                                  1363   8593   9956           122670  77330   896040
Contingencies - Physical                          272   1719   1991            24480  154710   179190
- Price                            331   2082   2413             29790  1B7380   217170
Total Cost A.2                              19e6  12394  14360           176940 1115460  1292400
A.3  Wreck rmoval                                 0   1750   1750                0  157500   157500
Contingencies - Physical                            0    350    350                0   31500    31500
- Price                              0    259    259                 0   23310    23310
Total Cost A.3                                 0   2359   2359                0  212310   212310



- 70 -
6NmP                                   Annes 3-5
PORTS REIAIILITATIIIU PROJECT                            Page 2 o  3
Summary of Cost Estimates
us 1000                        Cedis  000
Local Foreign  Total           Locai Foreign    Total
Base Cost of A (A.1, A.2 and R.3:                3613  24303  27916            325170 2187270  2512440
Cumtingencies - Physical                          722   4861   593              6490  43740   502470
- Price                            976   5724   6600             70B40  515160   59000
TOTAL (A)                                   5211  34999  40099            469990 3139920  3609910
3. EQUIPMENT
B.1 Port of Tea
li) Cargo handling equipment (incl. sprews):
(a) New equipment                              0   B688   968B                0  791920   781920
(bh  Rehabilitation of existing equipment    60    240    300              5400   21600    27000
Subtotal                                    60   9929  899               5400  803520   909920
(ii) Workshop equipmt                            0    500    500                0   45000    45000
(iii) llarine equipment                          0   3153   3153                0  283770   293770
(iv) Computers,ofc eqpt.,accessories (6PHA)   25    455    490               2250   40950    43200
(v) Materials for construction                   0   1450   1450                0  130500   130500
(vi) Hiscellaneous equipent incl. vehicles    0    950    950                   0   16500    76500
Base Cost                                          85  15336  15421              7650 1380240  1387890
Ccotingencies - Physical
- Price                              12   2133   2145             1090  191970   193050
Total Cost 9.1                                97  17469  17566              9730 1572210  1580940
1.2 Port of Takoradi
(ii Cargo handling equipment (incl. spares):
(a) Ne1  equipment                             0   B166   8166                0  734940   734940
(bh  Rehabilitation of existing equipment    25    115    140              2250   10350    12600
Subtotia                                    25   9281   8306             2250  745290   747540
lii) Workshop equipment (incl.dockyardl          0    900    900                0   81000    81000
(iii) Marine equipment                           0   2600   2600                0  234000   23p000
(iv) Materials for construction                  0    916    916                0   82440    82440
(v) Miscellaneous equipment incl. vehicles       0    530    530                0   47700    47700
Base Cost                                          25  13227  13252              225(. 1190430  1192690
Contingencies - Physical
- Price                               5   1995   2000              450  179550   190000
Total Cost B.2                                30  15222  15252              2700 1369990  1372690



- 71 -
PORTS REIWILITATIOu PROJECT                            Pap 3 of 3
Sua ry of Cost Estimates
US  000                       Cadim '000
Local Foreign  Total          Local Foreign    Total
Ibme CAt of I (3B.I nd 1.23:                     110  28563  29673             M9O0 2570670  2510570
Cortinqncin - Physial
- Price                            17   4129   4145             1530 371520   373050
TOTAL (83                                  127  32691  32818            1143  2942190  2953620
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTAMCE                         440   1310   1750            39600  117900   157500
Cuntingncies - Physical
- Price                            82    243    325             73B0   21970    29250
TOTAL (C)                                  522   1553   2075            46980  139770  16750
D. TRAINIE PRD6RP11                             195    835   1020            16&50   75150   91900
Cuntinyncies - Physical
- Price                            35    155    190             3150   13950    17100
TOT.L (D)                                  220    990   1210            19800  99100   1O0O9
E. PROJECT SFERvISIDN
Ci) Project Coordination Unit                 90    289    378             8100   2592     34020
fii) Engineering Supervision                 240    720    960            21600  64800    8640
Base Cost                                       330   1001   1339            29700  90720   120420
Cmntingncies - Physical
- Price                            61    IB7    24M             5490   16930    22320
TOTAL (E)                                  391   1195   1596            35190  107550   142740
TOTAL (C)+CD)+(EI                         1133   3738   4871           101970 336420   436390
F. REPAYNENT OF PPF ADVANCE (TO IDA)              0   1000   1000                0   90030    90000
GRAND TOTAL
Base Cost                                      4679  57019  61697           421020 5131710  5552730
Cutingencies - Physical                         722   4961   5593            64980 437490   502470
- Price                          1071  10437  11508            96390 939330  1035720
TUTAL (uithout axesI                      6471  72317  79789           592390 6509530  7090920
DUtin and Taxes                          17017          17017         1531530          1531530
H1AND TOTAL  (bith duties and taxes)     23419  72317  95905          2113920 6501530  9622450
_  _    _ _            _     _  _    _      _  _      _



POTS REHI1LITATIU  PROJECT
Project Ficaucing Plam
(In KS0 .1111.e .quiva1imtl
I                 I                       I                        i~                      I                       Is                      1                      I
I                                          I         IDA           I    OECF   apan) I/    SAUDI FUID   I/1/                 EEC (EDF) I/1W                           B 60M IH I6IWN N211            TOTAL          I
I                 ITEM                     I          -----------  I----------                  ----    ----   I------ -                  I------I----------                         I----------           --I
I                              ~~~~~I L    F    T   I L    F    T   IL    F    T   I L    F    T   I L    F   T   IL    F   T   I L    F   T I
I-------------------I-----------------------  ------------------------                                                                                                - -      --         
HVark. -  Tou                             I  1. 47  3.95  7. 42  I                         I -   13.13 13.151 -                       - 1      1.71  1.03  2.91  1   -                         3.25 20.13 23.38 1
I          Takoradi                        1  0.27  4.9q6  5.23   I 1                                               1  1.20  7.43  6.63   I  0. 50   -    0.50  1   -           -      -        1.97 12.39 14.36 I
1                              ~            ~          ~~~~~~~~~i  i                                     I                                                                                               I
lkick Removal                             I   -    2.36 2.36 1    -           -      -     I -        -      -                                  -                                     --              2.36 2.36 1
lEqulpeest                                 I  0.13  3.49  3.621 -   29.20 29.20   I 1                               I   -      -      -     i -               -     I -         -     -     I  0.13 32.69 32.321
11'echnical Assistance, Training and  I                                                    *                                                                                                I
I  Project Supervisnon                        1.13  3.74  4.8?   I 1                        I          -      -     I -        -      --               -      --                -      -    1  1.13  3.74  4.1171
IFPP  Refinancing                          I   -    1.00  1.00   1                                                  £ -I                                                                     I-        1.00 1.60
I                              I                        I~~~~~~~~- - -- - - - - -  -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - I --- -  -- ---- --
I        Total (not of taxi.)              I  3.00 21.50 24.50   1   -   29.20 29.20   I             13.15 13.15  1  1.20  7.43  8.63   1  2.26  1.03  3.31  I   -              -      -     I  6.41 72.31 71.79 I
,Taxes                                    I   -       -      -         -      --  -     -             -      -          -      -      -     I   -      -      -       1I7.01  -     17.01   1707.01 -        7.011 
1                         i ------------------ ! ------------------   ------------------I                                  I                       I--I-- aI -----__-----__
I       Total tinclhdin; taxes)            1  3.00 21.50 24.50   1   -   29.20 29.20  1 -   13.15 13.15  1  1.20  7.43  1.63  I  2.29  1.03  3.31   117.01                          1 7.01  1 23.49 72.31 "95.6  I
I1       . .. .  .. . .. . .. .                                                I                                    1                       I                       I                       It                      I
I          Percentage Share                1                  2621                     302 I                   141 191                                           31 1                   inIZ                    62
I- -- -- ---- --- - -- -- --              - -- -- - ---    -- -    --- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- --- -- -- -     -------    -        -- ---    - 
Notei L 3 local cost financiaqi F v furdge coqonsfits; T * total costs.
ii The cofinaciole contributioss, in their respective currencies, arei UECF u 5.914 billi. Yea,;i Saudi Fend a 41 million S. hials;
and EEC a 9.67 million ECU'.. Ihese were converted into dollars uising exchange rates prevailing at the time of
IDA Credit segotiatians (January 391).N
21  Loain to 6(3(  to cover delayed paymet of isport taxes. 
WATI
March 191



- 73 -
Annex 3-7
Page 1 of 8
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Coordination Unit
Terms of Reference
A.   Objectives
1.       In order to assist the GPHA in project implementation and to
ensure effective coordination between GPHA and the various cofinanciers
a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be created. PCU will provide the
project with overall project management and coordination, and monitoring
services with special emphasis on:
(i) coordination between GPHA and the various cofinanciers;
(ii) coordination between GPHA and the ports' operating
departments, supervising engineers and contractors to
reduce interference between the repair/rehabilitation
works and ongoing operations in the ports;
(iii) ensuring adherence to timetable - both for rehabilitation
works and supply of equipment;
(iv) assisting the timely deployment of the various special-
ists to be engaged under the technical assistance program
and monitoring their progress and reporting;
(v) ensuring management of project accounts in coordination
with related executing agencies and cofinanciers.
B.   Scope of Work
2.       The PCU will be established and be active for the duration of
the project and will be an autonomous unit as far as its management and
coordinating functions are concerned.
3.        The PCU will be attached t'i the Director General of GPHA for
overall supervision, and comprise minimum of three experts:
(a) Project Coordinator (PC)
(b) Procurement Specialist (PS)
(c) Senior Project Accountant (SPA)
4.        The PCU will have the overall responsibility for the implemen-
tation of the Ports Rehabilitation Project and the ongoing Export
Rehabilitation Project under the guidance of the Director General and as
such will be responsible for the coordination between GPHA, Government
and cofinanciers in general, and in particular will be responsible for:



74 -                    Annex 3-7
Page 2 of 8
(a) preparations of specifications and tender documents
(b) evaluation of bids
(c) overall execution of all project works
(d) procurement and installation of equipment
(e) reporting on project implementation to GPHA, government
and cofinanciers.
5.        Each expert attached to the PCU will be assisted by technical
staff. Each expert will train his staff in his specific discipline and
be responsible for his discipline of the project.
C.   Responsibilities of the individual experts:
The Project Coordinator (PC)
6.        Will be in charge of the PCU and will be responsible for
achieving the objectives set out under A above; in particular, he will
oversee and coordinate:
(a) the execution of all project works, removal of sunken
ships and wrecks, and installation of navigation aids and
buoys in both ports;
(b) the procurement and installation of all cargo handling
equipment, floating craft, workshop equipment and tools
for both ports;
(c) coordination of all technical assistance under the
project. and
(d) preparation of regular progress reports of project
components, including reports on status of project
procurement,   disbursement,    financing   under   each
co-financier, project account and special accounts,
technical assistance, and adherence to various credit
conditions; status of port traffic and advance monitoring
of actions to be taken for implementing project and
related credit conditions.
7.        PC will work in close cooperation with the Procurement Spe-
cialist and the Senior Project Accountant, and will report to the
Director General of GPHA. The Director of Engineering will act as the
counterpart of the PC. Project Implementation Committee and Procurement
Committee set up by GPHA will assist PC in project coordination. The
PC's duties will include, but not be limited to:
(a) matters of execution of project works (6(a) above):
(i) supervise the work of the procurement specialist, and
ensure that bid documents and specifications are prepared
by the various consulting engineers on time and in
accordance with the specific procurement guidelines of
the various cofinanciers financing the different parts of
the works;



- 75 -
Annex 3-7
Page 3 of 8
(ii)  ensure that pre-bidding conferences are arranged;
(iii)  participate  and advise  GPHA management  in  the  final
negotiations and discussions with the successful bidders
and the contract signing procedures;
(iv) represent the GPHA and other Government agencies in the
site working meetings of contractors and supervising
engineers;
(v)  coordinate between the GPHA, the ports operating depart-
ments supervising consulting engineers and contractors to
reduce interference between repair/rehabilitation works
and ongoing port operations;
(vi)  ensure adherence to construction time tables;
(vii)  ensure that upon completion of works the proper handing
over procedures are observed and that final accounts are
prepared;
(viii)  ensure the "as made dravings" are prepared by the super-
vising engineers upon completion of works;
(ix)  ensure that works progress reports are regularly prepared
by the supervising engineers (the timing to be agreed
upon), so that the information can be transmitted to the
cofinanciers in the quarterly progress reports;
(x)  ensure that the monthly billing presented by contractors
are properly prepared and approved by supervising engi-
neers to avoid payment delays by the cofinanciers;
(xi)  review and approve tLe monthly billings and the disburse-
ment request to be sent by GPHA to cofinanciers;
(xii) be responsible for the preparation of the Project
*                       Progress Report for the whole project to be sent regu-
larly to the cofinanciers (timing to be agreed upon) and
for preparing Project Completion Report (PCR);
(xiii)  prepare and update a PERT chart to follow all project
activities, equipment and works indicating the critical
path of implementation.
8.        On matters of procurement of equlipment (6(b) above):
(i)  supervise work of the Procurement Specialist and ensure
that the specification and bid documents are prepared by
the various consulting engineers in time and in accor-
dance with the specific procurement guidelines of the
various cofinanciers, financing the various cargo haud-
ling equipment, floating craft, workshop eauipment and
tools;



- 76 -
Annex 3-7
Page 4 of 8
(ii) participate in final negotiations and discussions vith
the successful bidder and the contract signing proce-
dures;
(iii) for all equipment which will be procured through "pro-
curement companies" (as suggested by OECF) the PC togeth-
er with the PS vill coordinate these companies' activi-
ties in accordance with procedures to be agreed upon with
OECF;
(iv)  ensure that quality control supervision is introduced on
all supply and manufactured items, invite proposals from
quality control companies and prepare contracts for
control supervision;
(v) ensure suppliers'/uanufacturers' adherence to timetables
for various activities (design, keel laying, construc-
tion, launching, testing, etc.) as stipulated in supply
contracts;
(vi)  ensure  that  suppliers'/manufacturers'   billings  are
adequately prepared and certified by supervising engi-
neers or control agency to avoid payment delays by
cofinanciers;
(vii) review and approve the billings presented and the dis-
bursements requested to be sent by GPHA to the cofinan-
ciers;
(viii)  ensure that the accounts and payments are prepared on
time to avoid delays of shipment of the equipment to
Ghna
(ix)  ensure that CIF documents are properly prepared amd that
insurance documents are valid;
(x) ensure, vherever required, that manufacturer's, suppli-
er's an-/or equipment consulting engineers representa-
tives are present in Ghana during equipment delivery,
testing, running in training of operators and handing
over;
(xi) ensure that all documentation covering warranty period,
insurance, guarantees, etc. are delivered and signed; and
(xii) supervise the handing over of equipment and spare parts
to the respective departments in the ports and supervise
its integration into the ports' operations activities.
9.        Among other duties, the PC will supervise the work of the
Senior Project Accountant and other staff attached to PCU. He will
supervise preparation and timely submission of all project related
reports, including PCR.



- 77-
Annex 3-7
Page 5 of 8
The Procurement Specialist (PS)
General
10.       The PS will be responsible for (a) managing the entire pro-
curement activity of the project including the ERP and (b) the design
and setting up of a modern procurement system for the GPHA in consonance
with the procurement principles and policies adopted by IDA and other
international aid agencies.
Relationships
11.       The PS will be a full time member of the PCU. He vill manage
the procurement cell in the PCU, which is in charge of procurement of
exclusively project-related materials and services, including the
procurement under ERP. In this capacity as a member of the PCU, he wil-l
report to the Project Coordinator (PC).
12.       In his role as the procurement systems building specialist.
the PS will interact horizontally with GPHA's Purchasing Manager (PH)
and Chief Stores Manager (CSM) and report vertically to the Chief
Executive (Director General). He will, in this capacity, not only
design and set up the new systems but will provide on-the-job training
to the PM and CSM.
Specific Responsibilities
13. The PS should:
(a) As project procurement specialist
Mi) review bid documents for all project procurement of
works, equipment and services to ensure conformity with
the procurement guidelines of various cofinanciers;
(ii) obtain the agreement of all cofinanciers to the bid
documents which need their prior clearance;
(iii) ensure that prequalificatifrn bids and invitation to bids
are publicized adequately in the approved manner and in
time;
(iv) monitor bid receipt and bid opening and officiate as the
secretary of the public bid-opening meetings;
(v) assist the tender cormittee in bid evaluation while
maintaining the strict observance of required procedures;
help the committee to prepare the bid evaluation state-
ment and the tender committee recommendations and be a
co-signatory of this document;
(vi) obtain the approval of the Chief Executive and the
clearance of the respective co-financiwrs to this docu-
ment; monitor the timeliness and correctness of the final



- 78 -                   Annex 3-7
Page 6 of 8
contract  document  and  its  signature  by  the  parties
concerned within the prescribed time limits;
(vii) participate and assist in negotiations with suppliers and
contractors at all stages of procurement;
(viii)  monitor  procurement  carried  out  through  procurement
agencies for objectivity, efficiency, and timeliness;
(ix)  assist in removing all bottlenecks in the supply chain
like customs, foreign exchange release, etc.; and
(x) carry out such other duties as may be allotted to him by
the PC.
(b)  As a Systems-building Specialist
(i) evaluate a) the existing procurement rules and regula-
tions, and b) the stores stocking, reordering and issue
systems of GPHA;
(ii)  prepare new manuals and rule books, in consonance with
modern practices, for efficient and expeditious procure-
ment action;
(iii) set up local rules and schedule of powers for delegation
of authority laying down up to which financial limits:
a)   which level of indenting officers are author-
ized to sign indents;
b)   which are the officials or committee of offi-
cials which are authorized to evaluate bids;
and
c)   which  approving  authority  is  competent  to
approve the awards of contracts;
(iv)  organize  a  nomenclature  cell which  would,  within  a
prescribed time frame, review and rev1.>e the standard
nomenclature lists of all stock items;
(v) lay down principles for consuming departments to assess
the maxiuram and minimum stock limits for each stock item;
(vi)  computerize the materials management function so that
GPHA's stores department activities can be monitored
easily and a periodical review by senior management would
be facilitated;
(vii) inspect stores stocking facilities and prepare schemes
for their modernization so as to-prevent deterioration of



- 79                        Annex 3-7
Page 7 of 8
materials in storage, and speed up location and issue of
stores; and
(viii) identify dead stocks and take action for their appropri-
ate disposal.
The Senior Project Accountant (SPA)
14.       The SPA will be responsible for coordinating and supervising
all financial work related to the project and will work ih close cooper-
ation with the PC and the PS. His specific duties will include, but not
be limited to the following:
(i) supervise and manage operations of revolving funds,
maintain proper accounts for the Special Account and sub
accounts for GPHA and control the disbursements of
various cofinanciers;
(ii) assume responsibility for maintaining proper records and
supporting documents for Statements of Expenses (SOE)
prepared by GPHA and the withdrawal applications under
the project;
(iii) maintain up to date records for procurement commitments
and disbursement and periodically reconcile with the
cofinanciers accounts and the bank statements on Special
Accounts;
(iv) assist the PC to prepare progress reports and the prepa-
ration of the PCR.
D. Staffing
15.       The professional staff  required for  ?CU have  to be  good
communicators. PCU staff would be required to ha'%i following qualifica-
tions and experience, including previous experience of working in
Africa.
(a) Project Coordinator (PC) (Expected Employment time 
36 months). A senior engineer (civil or electromechani-
cal) with at least 10 years of practical work experience
and proven managerial ability in the direction of major
civil /electro-mechanical works, preferably in the port
subsector and with a broad practical experience in
krocurement operations, port and harbor civil works,
equipment and port operations. Management experience and
ability will be the primary criterion, port experience
coming second.
(b)  Procurement Specialist (PS) (Expected  employment time
18 months). An engineer/manager with at least 5 years of
practical work experience in international contracting
and procurement of works and equipment, and substantial



80-                     Annex 3-7
Page 8 of 8
experience in procurement for international lending
agencies.
(c) Senior Project Accountant (SPA) (Expected employment time
- 48 monthe). A professional qualified accountant with
substantial practical experience in financial management
of large construction companies and/or major public or
private companies. Previous knowledge of procedures of
international lending agencies would be of advantage.
Note:     It  is  expected that PC and PS will be recruited internation-
ally,  financed by IDA; SPA will be financed by GPHA and
recruited from Ghana or abroad.
16.       The above staff would be supported in each position by quali-
fied but not necessarily experienced Ghanaians, who will be trained by
the experts.
17.       In addition to the professional staff PCU will have a basic
staff of administrative and clerical personnel to maintain the appropri-
ate financial progress and monitoring records related to the tasks
assigned to PCU.
E.  Reports
is.       PCU will prepare and submit to GPHA, MOTC and cofinanciers a
draft Inception Report within three imoths of comencing the assignment,
defining in detail the tasks to be carried out during the .3-4 year
project period. The comments of the above agencies will be given within
fifteen days and the final report submitted to the World Bank and other
cofinanciers (3 copies each) together with the comments by the end of
the fourth month.
19.       Quarterly Progress Reports, including performance indicators
to monitor progress of the various components under the project, will be
submitted to the above agencies within 15 days of the end of each
calendar quarter. Comments from the agencies will be given within 15
days and the reports and comments submitted to IDA and other cofinan-
ciers (3 copies each) by the end of the month after each quarter.
WAPT1
March 1986



a~~~~ C
GHANA
PORTS REUADILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
(Calendar Year)
Activity/Time                         1985         1986         1987        1988         1989        1990        1991
Discussions Govt - Cofinanciers   - - - - - -
Project Appraisal                      _
Negotiations
Board Presentation                                 _
Effectiveness                                        _
Design & Tender Documents - Works
Prequallficstlon RiddPrn
Bidding
Review and Award                                     _
Mobilization                                            _
Implementation of Works
Specification - Floating Craft
Prequalifications Suppliers                     _ _ _
Bidding - Floating Craft                            _ _ -
Review and Award                                          _    - _
Procurement - Floating Craft                                                 _
Specifications - Cargo Equipment
Prequalifications Suppliers                      _ _ _ 
Bidding - Cargo Equlpment                           _ _  _       -
Review and Award
Procurement Cargo Equipment                                                                           -
TOR - Port and Training Experts                _
Selection of Experts                              -   _
Agreements
T.A. and Training Implementation                                                                                        B
Source: Bank Staff
WAPT1
-larch 1986



-82-
Annex 3-9
elAn.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estisated Disbursement Schedule
Date of                        Cummulative     Cummulative      CuuLative
End of       Disbursements   Disbursements   Disbursements   Disbhrsuents
Quarter       (m million)      (S million)    (Proj. est.)    (Hist. Profile)
FY97
30-Sep-96             500              500                22              21
31-e-Sb              2500             3000               121
31-br-87              500             3500               141             14Z
30-Jun-7              600             4100               171
FY95
30-Sp-87             1450             5550               232             302
31-kc-97             2100             7650               312
31-lbr-8            2330             9980               411             472
30-Jun-              2100            12080               492
FY89
3Sep-Il              2600            14680               602             632
31-Dec-IB            2810            17490               712
31-Har-89            1500            18990               792             752
30-Jun-09             740            19730               81a
FY90
30-Sep-               700            20430               832             842
31-Dec-99             700            21130               862
31-Mar-90             900            22030               90%             90"
30-Jun-90             800            22930               932
FY91
30-Sep90              650            23480               96              95Z
31-Dec-90             420            23900               907
31-br-91              200            24100               "I              992
30-Jun-91             200            24300               99
FY92    -
30-Sep-91             200            24500              1002            1002
MPT1
Mych 1996



GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
EXPECTED DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
100-
4oe-
90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - -X
88--- -XTC -.,w 
20
FY87         FY88          FY            FYO0                FY92 
EXP)Ce  BOAD1 AMALVs A      t IM
unCI   MI   rzv l %JL la
~~~~~ w
Same8o/
-I                    /
Om~~~~



- 84 -                      Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
PORIS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of the Project: Details
General
1.        This annex elaborates the' simary in Chapter IV.  More details
are presented in Project Files, especially in Project Document No.227513
(Final Report of the Tema and Takoradi Ports Development Study by
Consultants William Halcrow, dated October 1985).
Traffic Projections
2.        Traffic projections are as given in Annex 2-3 through 2-6, and
discussed in Chapter 4. The projections are conservative. They are
generally supported by the Bank's recent studies of mining, agriculture,
industry and other sub-sectors, as well as its other economic reports on
Ghana.
Project Benefits
3.        It is assumed that Ghana's ports would be required to landle
the import and export traffic projected, which is the min"imm level
consistent with Ghana's current economic recovery programs and subse-
quent growth expectations. Inability of the ports to handle this volume
of traffic at reasonable efficiency would frustrate the economic recov-
ery process itself, the macro-economic costs of which would be difficult
to quantify. In this analysis, only the additional costs of handling
the cargo through deteriorated port facilities, in comparison with the
improved facilities provided under the project, have been considered and
estimated.
4.        The run-down condition of the present port facilities has been
discussed in Chapter II, and in Annexes 2-2 and 2-7. Further deteriora-
tion would make the cargo handling efficiency unacceptably low.  In
Takoradi, for example, the overhead and shore cranes for timber opera-
tions would 'Le unusable in 2-4 years, thus making loading  into barges
for ships at moorings physically impossible.  Most of the logs and
timber would then have to be directly loaded from wagons and trucks,
using sthips' gear at shore berths, resulting in very slow operations and
congfstion at berths. In the case of the limited petroleum and cement
clinker traffic handled at Takoradi, their specialized berths may become
unusable in about 4-6 years in the absence of rehabilitation, and this
traffic would then have to be moved from Tema to Takoradi by road at
much higher cost. In Tema, container operacions, which have already
reached near saturation levels due to lack of equipment and poor storage
area, wlll have to remain at about the present or slightly higher level,
causing an increas!ng volume of general cargo to be handled at very low
handling rates per day, thus increasing congestion at the port; the



- 85 -                      Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
analysis however, assumes that the port can handle a 100l increase in
containerized traffic even without project. There will also be mounting
costs of damage to cargo, due to poor handling, leaking of sheds and
other deficiencies; moreover, handling costs for cargo-owners would
increase in the ports, due to multiple handling of cargo and excessive
waiting of trucks and wagons due to poor roads and poor equipment at the
wharves. In the economic analysis, only a small extent of such poten-
tial deterioration has been assumed.
5.        The  congestion  costs  to  ships,  arising  from  increased
service-time and increased waiting time in the absence of the project,
have been estimated, based on limited further deterioration in
ship-handling rates.  Attachment  1  shows present handling rates and
estimated future rates with and without the project.  Handling rates
have temporarily improved after 1983 due to the impact of ERP/ERTAP
assistance, but the rates would slide back to 1982-83 levels in four to
five years in the absence of the project. Waiting times of ships have
been estimated on the basis of a queueing model. Waiting time estimates
in the absence of the project are frozen at a level corresponding to 902
berth  utilization,  which  makes  the  estimates  conservative.   Ship
service-time estimates have been frozen at 100% utilization of berths,
which is reached by about 1990 under the without project situation, with
the result that benefits from higher future traffic levels are ignored.
In Tema, eleven standard berths have been taken for the analysis; in
Takoradi, three standard berths are taken without the project (because
of a sunken ship alongside one berth) and four berths with the project
(Annex 2-2, paras 3 and 5). Ship-time savings from operating in stream
moorings in Takoradi have been ignored.
Distribution of Project Benefits
6.        It is assumed that reductions in ship-waiting costs would be
savings accruing to Ghana, since ship-waiting usually induces a compen-
satory congestion surcharge by shipping lines, or a freight or demurrage
increase by charter ships. As regards reductions in service-time costs,
50Z of these savings are assumed to accrue to Ghana in the case of
foreign liner shipping; for charter ships and national ships, these
savings should accrue in full to Ghanaian importers and exporters.
Savings in reduced cargo damages and shore handling costs would also
accrue directly to Ghanaian importers and exporters.
7.        All project costs (Annex 3-5), including technical assistance
costs but excluding taxes and price contingencies, have been included in
the estimation of economic costs. An additionAl US$1 million equivalent
has been added to investment costs to cover the cost of rehabilitation
of the pneumatic food grains discharge facility at Tema Port, owned by
the Tema Food Complex Corporation, under a separate ongoing project
(Annex 2-2, para 11). Analysis is done basically in border prices,
though border price adjustments for the small local components in costs
and benefits have been ignored, as these are not significant. Incremen-
tal operating costs from 1988 and supplemental investments after 1985
have been included.   Full project benefits are assumed for  1991;



- 86 -                      Annex4
Page 3 of 3
partial benefits would start from 1987, but are counted only from 1989.
About 202 of full benefits is assumed for 1989, and 60Z for 1990. The
cost benefit streams are taken up to year 2000 (10 years after project
completion), after which a conservative 202 salvage value has been
assumed.
Results
8.        The results of ERR calculations and sensitivity analysis are
shown in Attachment 2, separately for Tema and Takoradi, and for the
total project. Investments in each port are highly inter-related, as
they work to jointly produce a higher ship-handling rate per day, which
is one of the main project objectives. Separate analysis has been made
for the container yard, which is a new facility. The alternative in this
case is handling more cargo as break-bulk. The container investment
(about US$ 4.0 million) yielded an ERR of above 202. Further details on
analysis of particular components and the overall project are in Project
Files.



_ 87._                      Annex 4
Attachment 1
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cargo Handling Rates: Assumptions
(Tons per ship-day at work)
TEMA                      TAKORADI
Without   With                 Without   With
Type of        Existing  Project   Project   Existing  Project   Project
Coumodities      (1985)    (1990)    (1990)    (1985)    (1990)    (1990)
Bulk grain        600       480        2400      600        600      1600
Cement clinker   900        900        2240      900        900      1600
Cocoa beans       416       320        1400      208        160      1400
Breakbulk         160       128         420      160        128       420
Containerized    800        640        2800      640        640      2100
Logs                -         -           -      720        720      1440
Sawn timber       240       200         840      240        200       840
Note: At Takoradi clinker is handled in stream and barged to specialized
clinker berths.
WAPT1
March 1986



PROJECT COST3 AN: BiCNEFITS (IN I THOUSAN~D)
TEPA
(UASE CASE)
1986      0198     11908     1989    1990       1991    1992      1993      1994     179.5    099      1797    1998      1999    2000
297S.0  10730.0  16677,0  690C.0  42213.0             -                 -        -            3000.0            1500.0         - -7000,0
JPF:RA7uN  AND *NAT:NANCI                        -    500.0   800.0  1000.0  1500.0  1500.0  1500.0  1500.0  15.00.0  1500.0  1500.0  1500.0  1500.0  1500.0
"ViIAL C06T                      295,750  1073P,0  17379.0  7708,0  3213.0  1500,0  1500.0  41500.0  1500.0  1500.0  4500.0  1500.0  3000.   1500.0 -55060.
RIDcT:m mk iAI:ING O cST                   -              -  14:Z6.:*  4271.0  71,28.0  7120.0  7128.0  7128.0  7126,0  7126.0  7128.0  7120.0  7128.0  7128.0
F.EDiiCTIZtiN ihSRVICL TIME            -         -          -  1609.0  4826.0  7850.0  7050.0  7050.0  7350.0  7487,0  7407,0  7407.0  7407.0  7487.0  7171.0
0T;;Efi BE.4EUi';,                          -               -   160,0  1500.0  2649,0  2794.0  2938,0  3083,0  3229.0  3435.0  3643.0  3851.0  4059.0  4266.0
TOTAL ZE         -:                         -              - ~170.0 10603.0 176207,0 17772,0 17916.0 13061,0 17844,0 18050,0 18258.0 10466.0 18674.0 18565.0
NET DENEri7                     W2~~1730o.'  17377.0 '4513.0  7390,0 16127,0 16272.0 16416,0 16561,0 16344.0 13550,0 16758,0 15466.0 17174,0 24065.0
Result; Economic Rate of Return (ERR) - 27Z
WAPTI 
Harch 1986~~~~. 



PROJECT COSTS An/  sIEFITS iS THOLAN)
TMORDI
-(MSE CASE)
1986   1997    1988   198    190   199        99    13   194   1995   19Y    197   1M             199    200
IbRSTNENT                  2244.0 9196.0 11308.0  4983.0  13390        -      -       -      -       - 2200.0          1500.0      - 5000.0
WPERATIbJ MAJTEhICWa            -       -   400.0  600.0  1000.0 1350 0.0 1350.0 1iO.0 1350.0 1350.0 1350.0 1350.0 1350.0  1350.0  £350.0
TOTAL COST                 2244.0 819640  12206.0 5563.0  2339Y0 1350.0 1350.0 1350.0 1350.0 1350.0 3550.0 1350.0 2950.0 1350.0 -3650.0
REDUCTION IN UAITING COSTS      -       -       - 1750.0 5249.0 8748,0 8748*0 8748.0 974890 8748.0  874.0 8748.0 8748.0 8746.0 C74W.0
REDUCTIN IN SERVICE TINE        -       -       -  405.0  1200.0 2020." 2020.0 2020.0  2020.0 2020.0 2020.0 2020.0 2020.0 2020 2  2020.0
OTHER KENEFITS                  -       -       -  250.0 2200.0 3845.0 3892.0 39210  3957.0 3996.0  4036.0 4061.0 4123.0 4166.0 42080
TOTAL BENEFIT                   -      -        - 2405.0 8649.0 14613.0 146500 14689.0 14M.0 14764,0 14806.0 1449.0 14891.0 14934.0 14976.
MET [ElIrlT               -2244.0 -8916.0 -12200,0 -3178.0 6310.0 13263,0 1Z300.0 1335.0 13375.0 13414.0 11256.0 1349.0 12041.0 13584.0 1626.0
Result:  Economic Rate of Return  (ERR) ' 29Z
March 1986



PROECT C05TS AND BENEFIIS (1 THWUSAIMS)
TAKORADI AND TErA
(BASE CASE)
1986    1987    1988   1989   1990   1991    IM         1993   1994   1995   1996   1197    IM         19S7    2000               O
INYESTlMNT                  5239.0  18926,0  28687.0 11891.0  3552,0      -       -      -       -       - 5200.0        - 3000.0       - -120000*
OPERATING IAINTEPNMCE            -        -   900.0  1400.0  2000.O  2950.0  2850.0  2850.0 2e50.0  2950.0 2950.0 2950.0  2950.0  2950.0  2950.0
TOTAL COST                  5239.0  18926.0  2987.0 13291.0 552.0  2850.0  2950,0  2850.0  2950.0 2950.0 1050,0  2850,0 SO85.0  2950.0  -9150.0
REDUCTION IN VAIT1N6 COSTS       -        -       - 3176.0 9526.0 15876.0 15676.0 15676.0 15676.0 15876.0 15676.0 15876.0 15676.0 15976.0  15876.0
REDUCTION IN SERVICE TIME        -        -       - 2014.0  6026.0  9970.0 9870.0 9970,0 9870.0   5         9507.0  90.  9507.0  9507.0  9191.0
OTHER BENEFITS                   -        -       -  410,0 3700.0  M94.0  6676.0  6859.0 7040.0  t225.0  7473.0  M4.0  7974.0  622s.o  6474.0
TOTAL BENEFIT                    -        -       - 5600.0 19252.0 32240.0 32422.0 32605.0 32796.0 32606,0 32636.0 33107.0 333S7.0 33600.0 33541.0
NET BENEFiT                -5239.0 -16926.0 -295e7.0 -7691.0 13700.0 29390.0 29572.0 29755.0 29936.0 2975.0 24606,0 30257.0 27s07.0 3075.0  42691.0
Result:  Economic Rate of Return  (ERR) - 282
WAPTI
March 1986                                                                                                                                                0



91 -
Annex 4
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 4
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Nature of Sensitivity Test                        Resulting ERR
I
Tema    Takoradi    Total
Port      Port      Project
(a) Base case                               27        29          28
(b) Assuming no deterioration compared
to present (1985) l.Pvels, in the
absence of the project                  22         18         21
(c) Assuming that the traffic growth
expected beyond 1985 would be only
50% of what is estimated for the
base case                               24          16        21
(d) Assuming that the productivity
improvements over the present level
would be only one-half of what is
estimated for the base case             21         26         23
(e) Assuming project benefits down by
25% and project costs up by 25%,
compared to base case                   15          16        15
Note: The base case result is not significantly higher than the
sensitivity results under (b), (c) and (d), because project
benefits in the base case are grossly underestimated under the
assumptions made (para 4 of Annex 4).
WAPT1
March 1986



-92-                        A-        5-1
Page 1 of 6
-  PORTS                 PROAPILIThTD  PROJECT
FinancUAl EValuatiom: Details
A. General
1.        Prior to the the reorganizatlon of the ports sub-sector, the
finaucial transactions have been cairiad out independently by GPA for
Ton and Takoradi ports operations, by GCHC for stevedoring and sbore-
handling at both ports and by TLC for  ahoreandling and lighterage at
Takoradi Port. Separate financial statements were prepared for each of
the three entities.  Under the proposed reorganlzation the accounts and
tariffs will be consolidated for each port for stevedoring. lighterage.
shorehandling and port operations. Therefore. in this report. the past
financial results are shown indiviully by each entity and the future
financial forecast is shown for each port amd for the reorganized GPRA
as a whole.
B. Past and Present Financial Performance
2.        GPA is the largest of the tbree entities in terms of assets,
although its inome is comparable with that of GCBC. Annex 5-2 shows
Incoem accounts in details for GPA, GCHC and TLC and a sumary given in
the following:
1931              1982                1983                 1981
Tak.  Ter.   Tot.  Tak.  Te.  Tot.  Tak.  Tm.   Tot.  Te!:.  Ten.  Tot.
CA: Reves             9.4 4.5  53.9  9.8  48.5  58.3  21.3  98.9   20.2  53.5  2".0  301.5
30sts           15.7  31.5  47.2  24.8  32.0  56.B  30.1  48.6   78.7  66.5  120.0  186.5
hrplUlStoUs)    (6.3)  13.0   6.7 (15.0) 16.5   1.5  (8.8)  50.3   41.5  (13.0) 128.0  115.0
GCtX: fevs           10.3  38.1  48.4  28.6  91.6  120.2  40.2  329.3  169.5  60.2  285.0  345.2
Cost            15.6  32.6  48.2  39.5  89.0  128.5  46.1  105.5  151.6  60.5  139.5  200.0
SuPlsI(t>O)    (5.3)  S55    0.2 (10.9)  2.6  (8.3)  (5.9)  23.8   17.9  (0.3) 145.5  14S.2
lCz R s -             2.5    -      2.5  4.0   -      4.0   4.1    -       4.1  22.2    -    22.2
Cot.             4.8    -     4.8  5.2   -       S.2   5.3    -       5.3  13.8    -    13.8
Suzplusl(o)     (2.3)   -    (2.3) (1.2)  -    (1.2)  (1.2)   -      (1.2)  8.4    -      8.
=AL Port Sector     (l3.9)  18.5   4.6  27.1  19.1  (8.0) (15.9)  74.1   58.2  (4.9) 273.5  268.6



Annex 5-1
- 93 -                      Page 2 of 6
All three operations in Takoradi port have been showing continual losses
up to 1983. Tema port operations, on the other hand, have been generat-
ing some profits and absorbing Takoradi losses. Tema's profits and the
positive cash flows have however been due to neglect of normal expendi-
ture- oi repairs and maintenance of port faci lities aitd the absence-'off'
the renewal of worn-out equipment. Furthermore, the rapid financial
improvement for both ports from late 1983 was artificial and was mainly
due to: (i) revemne increases from devaluation of cedi; the foreign
ships are charged tariffs in foreign currency (mostly in US$); (ii)
decline of personnel costs in real term; (iii) deferring maintenance
costs; and (iv) understatement of depreciation (on book value). These
conditions have considerably offset the inflation and erosion in cedis.
The overall current cash flow position is positive and all three agen-
cies managed to establish foreign currency accounts outside Ghana.
3.        A part of the ports' surplus is nevertheless in the hands of
debtors, mostly government agencies, some of whom have not paid their
bills for a long time, particularly the Black Star Line.  The present
billing system is not efficient and little effort is made to collect
accounts receivable. Under the proposed project an improved billing
system will be introduced in order to collect bills faster and reduce
the size of accounts receivable. The over due accounts receivable will
be separated from the current transactions and targets will be set for
improvements.
4.        None of the three companies have calculated depreciation on
revalued fixed assets. The values of fixed assets are misleading as
they are written down to a very low value. The operating costs are,
therefore, understated arid the financial statements show a better
financial condition than what actually exists.
5.        No appropriate costing system exists  in any of the said
companies. The tariffs, therefore, are not cost-oriented. The need for
a comprehensive and unified costing system is even more important when
the three organizations will be merged into one entity. Under the
proposed project, consultants will be hired to install a port costing
system and restructuring of tariffs.
6.        Annex 5-3  shows historical  balance  sheets  for  the  three
companies. The current ratios for GPA, GCHC and TLC have been improving
between 1981 and 1984, mainly due to the increasing number of debtors.
In 1984 the current ratio was 2 or more f or all three agencies. Trade
debtors have been increasing over the past several years and particular-
ly over the past 3 years reaching over 70Z of total current assets in
1984. Some of these outstanding debts are so old that they can hardly
be treated as current assets. For some of these debts there is no hope
that they will be recovered and therefore they should be written off.
These bad debts will be written off gradually over a number of years.
The cedi has been devalued by over 20001 since 1983 and the continued
presentation of fixed assets in terms of original book value does not
present a realistic picture. Although the fixed assets will be revalued
under the proposed project, the 1985 balance sheet incorporates the
results based on estimated revaluation of assets in use.



- 94 -
Annex 5-1
Page 3 of 6
C. Financial Forecast
Income Accounts
7.        A financial estimate for 1985 and a forecast for 1986 to 1995
has been developed in 1985 constant prices based on the financial
objectives discussed in para 5.04 of the report, the traffic forecast,
investment plan and the financing plan. Major assumptions and consider-
ations used in the forecast are as follows:
Major Assumptions and Notes for the Financial Evaluation
(a) Constant Prices
8.        The forecast is prepared in  January  1986 constant cedis
because of the high inflation and continued depreciation in cedi value.
(b) Revenues and Tariffs
9.        Revenues are calculated with prevailing tariffs.  Since the
forecast is prepared in constant prices, it is assumed that GPHA and the
Government would take appropriate and timely action to adjust tariffs
and/or reduce costs annually to recover inflationary cost increases. To
cover this covenants are included in the loan documents (Section 4.02
and 4-03 of the Project Agreement). Furthermore, the present tariffs
are high, port services are inefficient and slow, and the port facili-
ties are in a dilapidated condition. It is therefore not advisable to
increase tariffs in real terms at this time. Since part of stevedoring
and port operation charges are levied in foreign currency on foreign
ships, and cedi value has been substantially depreciated and may contin-
ue to depreciate for at least another two years, GPHA revenues, in terms
of cedis, have been rising even though the traffic has declined substan-
tially in the past five years. The ports services (GPA) earn about 64%
of their revenues in foreign exchange and stevedoring and shorehandling
operations (GCHC and TLC) earn about 602. With the proposed project,
the port facilities will be rehabilitated, new equipment will be pur-
chased and operational performance will be improved during project
implementation. The ship handling time will be considerably decreased
thereby reducing the shipowners' costs. Only then the tariff increases
in real terms may be justified. The following average tariff increases,
in real terms, are therefore assumed:
-    15% increase effective July 1, 1989
-    10% increase effective January 1, 1991.
In addition to above real term tariff increases, GPHA will also increase
tariffs in current terms as necessary so that inflationary cost increas-
es are fully absorbed by incremental revenues. Furthermore Takoradi
Port has been heavily subsidized by revenues earned by Tema Port. In
order to correct this situation GPHA should seriously consider the
possibilities of raising tariffs of Takoradi port higher than the
increases in Tema port without endangering the competitive position of
Ghana exports in the international market.   GPHA should also take
measures to reduce costs so that this cross subsidy is considerably
reduced or preferably eliminsted.



- 95 -                      Annex 5-1
Page 4 of 6
(c) Operating Costs
10.       The salaries and wages have been very low (particularly in the
two port operations) considering the high inflation rate in the past few
years in Ghana. Even though there have been some substantial increases
in salaries and wages 'n 1984, 1985, and early 1986, their levels are
still quite low compared to the inflation and devaluation of cedi 11.
Furthermore, the salary levels in GCHC and TLC are still superior to
those of GPA. There appears, therefore, to be some scope of real term
salary increases for port employees.   At the same time, the total
manpower would have to be adjusted downward to a realistic level
(Annex 2-10). For the calculation of personnel costs in the forecast
period of 1986-1995, a 20Z reduction in manpower and about 8Z increase
in salaries and wages in real term was assumed.  Since the excess of
manpower in Takoradi is greater than Tema, a larger than 20Z reduction
was made in Takoradi and less than 20Z in Tema. During negotiations,
discussions were held on this subject and an action plan was prepared to
reduce manpower (Annex 2-10). The cost of fuel, spare parts and other
imported items have been estimated taking into account the future
traffic movement and gradual increase in repair and maintenance costs.
Repairs and maintenance of port facilities and equipment have been taken
first at minimum since the proposed project includes a substantial
amount of deferred maintenance and repairs. Since establishment of an
adequate and regular maintenance system of port facilities is part of
main objectives, these costs have been increased to the normal level of
repairs and maintenance reaching to 0487.0 million in 1995 (Annex 5-4).
(d) Depreciation Charges
11.       The book values of fixed assets are grossly understated due to
major devaluation of cedi.  Although a detailed revaluation of fixed
assets will be carried out during the implementation of the project, an
estimated revaluation was carried out during appraisal.   The total
revaluation was about US$350 million ($200 million for Tems Port and
$150 million for Takoradi Port).   Furthermore,  since the Temn and
Takoradi Ports were originally built for higher traffic levels than the
present ones, the depreciation has been calculated on fixed assets that
will be used for anticipated levels of traffic. On the average 602 of
total revalued assets in 1985 were used as a base to which the capital
expenditures under the proposed project were added before calculating
depreciation charges. The technical assistance and training components
of the project were amortized over ten years.
1/ In January 1986, the minimum wages have been raised from #70/day to
90O/day - an increase of 28.5Z. The high level staff salaries have
been increased at a much higher percentage than workers wages. The
ratio of high level staff salaries to daily wage workers has
increased from about 1:1.8 to about 1:7.



- 96 -                    Annex 5-1
Page 5 of 6
(e)  Terms and Conditions of On-lending Agreement
12.       The funds from the proposed Credit will be on-lent to GPHA.
It was agreed during negotiations that the Government vill make efforts
to maintain similar on-lending terms as applicable to IDA funds, for
cofinancing available from EEC and Saudi Fund. The cofinancing amounts
and on-lending terms used for financial projections are shown in the
following:
IDA Credit:   US$24.5 million at 10% interest rate, for 20 years
with five years of grace
OECF (Japan): US$29.2 million. Terms as shown in para 13 below
Saudi Fund:   US$13.2 million. Same terms as for IDA
EEC:          US$8.6 million. Same terms as for IDA
13.       The foreign exchange risk on debt service charges will be
borne by GPHA. This is feasible as over 60X of revenues are earned in
hard currency. Although the current interest rate in Ghana is about 18Z
to 20Z, the rationale for using 0OZ is that in the long run, this is
likely to be a positive interest rate. The same lending terms cannot be
applied to OECF financing as an agreement between OECF and the Govern-
ment has already been reached to very concessional on-lending terms as
follows: (excerpts from subsidiary agreement)
Article II.    A  sum  in  Ghana currency equivalent to proceeds of
the loan of : 5.9 billion (Yen) to be withdrawn by
GPHA on behalf of the Government. The equivalent of
such proceeds in Ghana currency shall be determined
by applying the official rates of exchange prevail-
ing at the time of withdrawal of such proceeds.
Article IV.    GPHA shall pay interest at the rate of 5.5% p.a. on
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan with-
drawn and outstanding.
The OECF agreement further states that foreign exchange risk during
repayment of loans is not borne by GPHA.
(f) Import Duty and Tax
14.       In order not to lay undue burden on GPHA's gradually recover-
ing finances, it was agreed with the Government during negotiations that
the high rate of duty and tax on imported items of the project amounting
to a total of about $17.0 million, will be treated as a loan to GPMA by
the Government. GPHA will pay it back under the same on-lending terms
as for IDA.
Sensitivity Analysis
15.       A sensitivity analysis was carried out to see the impact of
certain aspects which may be of different magnitude than that assumed in
the forecast. Three risk elements have been considered.



- 97 -              ~~~Amuex 5-1
Page 6 of 6
(a) if tariff In real terms does not Increase as forecast;
(b) if traffic does not lncrease as forecast; and
(c) if the revaluation results are different from the forecast.
16.       The effects of the above on the financial rate of return will
be as follows:
1987     1988      1991      1993       1995
Financial rate of
return on net fixed
assets in use (x):
(a)  As per forecast         Neg.  2.8Z       6.8Z      9.3Z      11.92
(Base Case)
(b) If real tariff
increases are 50X lower
than forecast                 n    2.01       3.5S      5.41       7.4Z
(c) If traffic growth is
5O0  lower than forecast      *    2.51       4.9Z      5.7Z       6.51
Cd) If revaluation results
is 15Z higher than forecast   "    1.81       5.7Z      8.01      10.4Z
17.       GPHA's financial performance is very sensitive to the changes
in traffic volume and the rate of tariff.  Therefore, GPBA and the
Government should ensure that tariffs are increased as forecast. If
traffic does not increase as projected, further tariff Increases msy be
necessary to achieve a financial return on net fixed assets of about 12X
by 1995 (Base Case estimate).
WAPTI
March 1986



_98
hu 52
~ 1 ci 3
Tm 5tam faw M141L. QA
1961                  1962                   1983                 1986
Timii  -~       Total  TaIwmi TM    Totia  Tdmro1  Tm   TOWa  Tamk=af  Tm   Total
F11m      4                0.8    2.1    2.9    1.0    3.0    4.0    2.6    8.0    W.6   6.5  2D.0  26.5
1mm G Iqft                 0.1    0.6    0.7    0.1    0.5    0.6    0.2    1.2    :.4   0.5   1.0   1.5
LIjtUVA                    -      1.3    1.3     -       1.      1.8    -       2.9    2.9    -      11.5  11.5
PAZ  l_ morf        2.5    6.0    8.5    2.1    6.1    8.2    3.7   11.1   14.t   8.0  22.5  3D.5
Cm        Fact DT          1.3    6.9    8.2    1.6    7.9    9.5    4.2   19.0   23.2  10.5  57.0  67.5
Cq    7_Uin:
1DM                1.5    6.1    7.6    1.8    7.1    8.9    4.3   16.7   21.0  12.5  52.0  64.5
S l O..zw                  1.5   18.5   20.0    1.3   18.6   19.9    2.3   33.8   36.1   4.0  73.0  77.0
SyA7 Tm                     1.7    3.0    4.7    1.9    3.5    5.4    4.0    6.2   10.2  11.5  11.0  22.5
Tea                         9.4   44.5   53.9    9.8   48.5   51.3   21.3   98.9  120.2  53.5  218.0  3D1.5
-1MMNRI                     12.7   22.5   35.2   20.8   24.0   4c.8   26.8   40.0   66.8  52.5  79.0  131.5
.Aa r  IWMr              0.4    1.8    2.2    1.1    2.1    3.2    1.2    2.6    3.8   3.5   7.5  11.0
_mm-t  d. a mOri             .7    1.9    2.6    1.0    1.7    2.7    0.6    1.9    2.5   3.0  10.0  13.0
adw  GM=         0.3    0.7    1.0    0.6    1.5    2.1    0.2    1.3    1.5   2.0   7.5   9.5
1.0    3.0    4.0    1.0    1.7    2.7    0.1    1.0    1.1   5.0  15.5  20.5
Ad DbCu                     0.2    0.7    0.9      -       -      -       -       -      -      -      -      -
CAW                15.3   30.6   45.9   24.5   31.0   55.5   28.9   46.8   75.7  66.0  119.5  185.5
---dae1m                    0.3    1.0    1.3    0.3    1.0    1.3    1.4    1.6    3.0   0.5   0.5   1.0
al 4a         = t            15.6   31.6   47.2   24.8   32.0   56.8   30.3   48.4   78.7  66.5  1:0.0  186.5
Not pm2rtg awumI/Lau.)       (6.3)   13.0    6.7  (15.0)   16.5    1.5   (9.0)   50.5   '1.5  (13.0) 128.0  115.0
NW-4min1gR3           eJa)    0.2    0.1    0.3    0.3    0.1    0.4        -      -       -     -      -      -
lbt -/  LO)                  (6.1)   13.1   '7.0   (1&.7)  16.6   1.9   (9.0)   50.S   41.5  (13.0) 12.0  115.0
Sfm: CALzUtu S   W& Staff
March 1986



ge ~ ~       ~      ~       ~      k   H
.t   2 of3
Grn
Peru RdubLUil m  1i  :t
Tm Statmit fwr ml8141. OO
1961                  1982                   1983                  199G
T_ma1  Tm    Total  Tak=ot- T_          Tctal  T_n1  Tm   Tal Mm   Ta         T_   Tocal
Um_Uq                       6.6   30.8   37.4   22.4   72.7   95.1    2.2  ID.0   127.2  30.0  160.0  190.C
3.6    7.1   10.7    5.9   18.3   24.2   12.8   27.3   40.1   30.0  124.0  154.G
Sontzy *Tm^s                0.1    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.6    0.9    0.2    2.0    2.2   0.2    1.0   1.2
lowtil                     10.3   38.1   48.4   29.6   91.6   12.2   40.2   19.3  169.5  60.2  285.0  315.2
E1onnmi                    13.4   25.5   38.9   33.1   71.4   10o.5   41.0   89.5   130.5  54.0  119.0  173.C
.1L. 1bir & ktsr            0.1    1.1    1.2    0.3    3.2    3.5    0.3    2.4    2.7   0.4    3.7   4.1
Bsm*a-4ntlnht. & hoti  al    0.2    1.4    1.6    0.3    3.2    3.5    0.3    2.8    3.1   0.5    4.2   4.7
hrO    mtkn Cc ts           0.3    0.7    1.0    1.4    2.3    3.7    1.2    2.4    3.6    1.7   3.3   S.C
Admnirds51tuel              0.9    1.9    2.8    2.8    4.5        7.3    1.6    3.1    4.7    2.9    5.9   8.E
Bed td*                     Q0.1    0.1    0.2    0.1    0.2    0.3    1.0    3.1    4.1    0.2   1.1   1.3
nkSR CootM                 15.0   30.7   45.7   38.0   84.8   122.8   45.4  103.3  148.7  69.7  137.2  196.9
D _rmdina                   0.6    1.9    2.5    1.3    4..    5.6    0.7    2.2    2.9   0.8    2.3   3.'
Taw lDin1D  cast              15.6   32.6   48.2   39.3   59.1   128.4   46.1  105.5  151.6  60.5  i39.3  M0.C
bt.  rm IsnRmzsalGoA.)        (5.3)    5.5    0.2  (10.7)    2.5   (8.2)   (5.9)   23.8   17.9  (0.3) 145.5  145.2
3.OpmclzIA== (Net)             -      -       -       -      -       -       -       0.1    0.1    -      -      -
Incort                        0.1    0.4    0.5    0.3    1.1    1.4         -       -      -
3.C I^MI-O M)                 (5.4)    5.1   (0.3)  (10.4)    3.6   (6.8)   (5.9)   23.9   18.0  (0.3) 145.5  145.2
Sm:  au1-          i  k  Staff
Mrch 1986



- 100 -
Annex 5-2
P sge 3 of 3
Ports Rehsbilitation Proiect
Income Statee ent for FT81-84, TLC
(in C.dis Million)
1981         1982          1983         1984
Operating Revenues
Lighterage                              1.1           2.0          2.3         14.1
Shorehandling                           1.2           1.7          1.5          7.3
Other                                   0.2           0.3          0.3          0.8
Total                                   2.5           4.0          4.1         22.2
Operating Costs
Porsonnel                               3.1           3.5          3.8          9.7
Fuel, Power & Vater                     0.1           0.1          0.2          0.7
ouguht- i Maint. & Material             0.2           0.1          0.2          0.2
Other Operating Costs                   0.5           0.4          0.4          1.7
Administration                          0.3           0.5          0.5          1.2
Bad Debts                                             - -          0.1          0.1
vorking Cost                            4.2           4.6          5.2         I3.6
Depreciation                            0.6           0.6          0.1          0.2
Total Operating Cost                    4.8           5.2          5.3         13.8
Ret Operating Revenuesl(Loss)             (2.3)         (1.2)        (1.2)         8.4
Son-Operating Revenues (Net)                             -            -            -
Interest                                                 0.1          0.1          -
let Income/(Loss)                         (2.3)         (1.3)        (1.3)         8.4
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff
Va1T1
March 1986



/ 53
Pp I of 3
Fact Fmbd11t*mtz Pmject
alrsm. Shutsa for M1414. CPA
(n CmII Wil1mo
191                   1981                   1983                  1
Thkmli mm  'otal  Tdwrml mm    Moto   T*nrmL  Mm    Total T_o i TIMOR TOW
P 4 L IZmt kam                12.6    2.9   15.5  (11.2)   2D.0    8.8   (.    70.0  9.0  (33.0) 18.0  165.0
811N  Loo       y              1.0    6.9    7.9    3.0    4.8    7.8    4.0    3.8    7.8    5.0    2.5   7.5
Cqpi-.                        10.0   65.0   75.0   30.0   45.0   75.0   40.0   35.0   75.0   5D.0  25.0  75.0
sla                           23.6   74.8   98.4   21.8   69.8   91.6   24.0   108.8  1Mg8  22.0  225.5  247.5
1tNdaIM for Staff ad of
SmWYi Sfim                     -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -      4.0    -      4.0
1Imsn (Qm,t k.)                -       9.0    9.0     -       9.0    9.0      -      8.9    8.9    -       4.0   4.0
Tsal Tjidflzi.s               23.6   83.8   107.4   21.8   78.8   100.6   24.0   117.7  141.7  26.0  229.5  255.5
Staff D            0.6    1.0    1.6    1.0    2.3    3.3    1.0    9.0   10.0   2.0   8.0  10.0
TN Dd*=            8.0   23.4   31.4   10.7   25.6   36.3   12.0   60.0   72.0  25.5  197.5  223.0
Otr D dbtc         2.1    5.5    7.6    2.9    4.1    7.0    3.0   12.0   15.0   3.0  12.0  15.0
Dyoam   & Rqayita 0.1    7.5    7.6    0.1    7.2    7.3    0.5    2.5    3.0   0.5   13.0  13.5
10.7   37.5   48.2   14.7   39.2   53.9   16.5   83.5  100.0  31.0  23D.5  261.5
Seacka             1.6    5.0    6.6    1.5    5.4    6.9    1.5    9.0   10.5   3.5   11.5  15.0
Not C(             0.2     -      0.2    0.1      0.2    0.3    1.4      -       1.4   5.5  35.0  40.5
OETst eA          12.5   42.5   55.0   16.3   44.8   61.1   19.4   92.5   111.9  40.0  277.0  317.0
Not Onnkaft       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -      -      -
Wayrl tmx ad
SocIl SOzrizy      4.0    6.6   10.6    6.0    11.5   17.5    7.0   13.0    M.0   10.0   15.0  25.0
Odr 
ad                 2.0    7.3    9.3    5.0    8.3   13.3    5.0   15.0   20.0   2D.0  100.0  12D.0
Owrmt LiabiLitl    6.0   13.9   17.9   11.0   19.8   30.8   12.0   28.0   40.0  30.0  115.0  145.0
Net Cw'Z Awa    6.5   28.6   35.1    5.3   24.9   30.2    7.4   64.5   71.9  10.0  162.0  172.0
Invin_ta           2.6    1.5    4.1    2.6    1.5    4.1    2.6    1.5    4.1    2.5   5.5   8.0
CAt of xEd Am.t 21.2   69.8   91.0   21.2   69.8   91.0   21.2   69.8   91.0   21.0  70.0  91.0
(8.1)  (17.7)  (25.8)   (8.6)  (19.2)  (27.8)   (8.6)  (2D.2)  (28.8)  (9.0) (21.O) (30.0)
13.1   52.1   65.2   12.6   50.6   63.2   12.6   49.6   62.2   12.0  49.0  61.0
Capito VD*in
Piupu              1.3    1.7    3.0    1.3    1.8    3.1    1.4    2.1    3.5    1.5   13.0  14.5
Net Fhd AM.t    14.4   51.8   68.2   13.9   52.4   66.3   14.0   51.7   65.7   13.5  62.0  75.5
Total Assts       23.6   31.8   107.4   21.8   78.8  1W.6   24.0  117.  S1.7   26.0  229.5  255.5
Smome: GmuI1 ad -w  Staff
March 1986



-    02-                                       A     5-3
Pqp 2 of 3
PEut Ri~a ~
Balane SM    for n3-8, ac
(in Cudts NIfIJIm
1ML                  198                    1983          ___       __
DhcI  mm          tl Td.1   Tm   Total  T~            Mm    dot..I  T      TM   TOl
P & L AotIM                  (0.4)  (2.7)   (3.1)  (11.8)   (1.9)  (13.7)  (17.7)   15.0   (2.7) (18.0)  85.5  67.5
acw 1ms Daiwnt.              -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -     2.4   4.3   6.7
stmiC FJzg                    0C     0.2    0.3    0.1    0.2    0.3    0.1    0.2    0.3   0.1   0.2   0.3
TbtaL.                       (0.3)   (2.5)   (2.8)  (11.7)  (1.7)  (13.4)  (17.6)   15.2   (24) (15.5)  90.0  74.5
Pwasm for Staff Ehl of
Sa5it.  Dfts                  6.3   10.;   16.3    5.8   11.8   17.6   26.6   33.5   60.1  40.0  60.0  100.0
TAM  (Ch    Gt.)              -      6.5    6.5    6.6    -         6.6    6.5    -       6.5   6.5    -      6.5
Tmt.l Uzl1                   (6.0)   14.0   20.0    0.7   10.1   10.8   15.5   48.7   64.2  31.0  150.0  181.0
Staff ldbm        1.0    2.3    3.3    0.8    4.4    5.2    0.6    6.9    7.5   2.0  18.0   2.0
t    z  Ld..   1.3    2.0    3.3    2.7    4.5    7.2    4.0    5.8    9.8   5.0   5.0  10.0
1 khctc           5.0    8.0   13.0    3.0    8.0   11.0   12.0   25.0   37.0  15.0  85.0  10.0
*      1 Ccm      2.7    3.9    6.6      -      0.7    0.7    0.6   12.8   13.4   3.0  27.0  3D.0
Da1rs & Ry0t  -          0.1    0.1    0.1    1.0    1.1    -          3.3    3.3   1.0   3.0   4.0
10.0   16.3   26.3    6.6   18.6   25.2   17.2   53.8   71.0  26.0  138.0  164.0
Stodw             0.4    2.2    2.6    0.3    2.2    2.5    0.7    4.3    5.0   2.0   8.0  10.0
;i: CEi           -       -      -       -      -       -      1.5.   12.3   13.8   5.0  55.0  60.0
OCa    A_t       10.4   18.5   2B.9    6.9   20.8   27.7   19.4   70.4   89.8  33.0  201.0  23M.0
Nut 0mzdr.lft     1.5    -       1.5    1.5    1.0    2.5    -         -      -      -      -     -
CaW  Tu.tm        -       5.0    5.0    -       5.0    5.0    -       10.9   10.9   -    80.0  80.0
PeyzU Tat wA
Soda Sm=dLy       2.4    3.0    5.4    3.4    5.1    8.5    2.8    4.6    7.4   2.0   8.0  10.0
od :r
md ACCOunto       2.0    7.7    9.7    3.2    8.9   12.1    4.7   15.7   20.4   3.0   7.0  10.0
Oacrm Li_AIjz1   5.9   15.7   21.6    8.1   20.0   26.1    7.5   31.2   38.7   5.0  95.0  I00.0
Not 0rr=t *A      4.5    2.8    7.3   (1.2)   0.8   (0.4)   12.0   39.0   51.0  28.0  106.0  134.0
I1 _a             -      4.6    4.6    -        4.1    4.1    1.5    5.5    7.0   1.5   5.5   7.0
Come of Th.d As 4.0   12.0   16.0    5.0   15.5   20.5    6.0   16.5   22.5   6.0  53.0  59.0
_ueItImi         (2.5)   (6.3)   (9.2)   (3.5)  (11.2)  (14.7)  (4.0)  (13.5)  (17.5)  (4.5) (13.5) (20.0)
1.5    5.3    6.8    1.5    4.3    5.8    2.0    3.0    5.0   1.5  37.5  39.0
CmOra 1ok In
P _p              -       1.3    1.3    -       1.3    1.3    -        1.2    1.2   -       1.0   1.0
Not FE:xod AmM    1.5    6.6    8.1    1.5    5.6    7.1    2.0    4.2    6.2   1.5  38.5  40.0
Total a           6.0   14.0   20.0    0.2   10.5   10.7   15.5   48.7   64.2  31.0  150.0  181.0
Siac: Cmmtm   md Bw NStaff
WAPTi
Narch 1986



_103
- 103 -               Amex 5-3
GHANA
Ports Rebabilitation Project
Balance Sheets for FTBI-84. TLC
(In Cadl Nillion)
1981         1982          1983         1984
(037311r-)  (03131182)    (03131713)   (03131714)
Profit & Loss Account Balnce             (3.3)         (4.7)        (5.9)         5.5
Capital Re s e                                                       _ 
Stated Capltal                            2.4           2.7          2.8           3.0
(0.9)         (2.0)        (3.1)         8.5
Proaviion for Staff end of Service
Benefits                                                0.4          0.8           3.5
Total Liabilitles                        (0.9)         (1.6)        (2.3)         12.0
Application
Staff Debtors                             0.1           0.2          0.3           1.0
Trade Debtors                             0.5           0.3          0.4          3.3
Other Debtors                             0.1           0.1          0.1           1.7
Deposits and Repayments                   -             -            -            4.0
0.7           0.6          0.8         10.0
Stock & OperatLons in Progress              0.7           0.9          1.0          2.5
Net Cash                                    -             0.1          -             9.2
Current Assets                              1.4           1.6         16          21.7
Net Overdraft                               0.5           -            0.2           -
Tax and Social Security                     0.5           0.6          0.7           1.5
Other Credltors and Accounts                1.9           3.0          3.5           9.0
Current Llabilities                         2.9           3.6          4.4         10.5
Net Current Assets                         (1.5)         (2.0)        (2.6)         11.2
Investments
Cost of Fized Assets                        1.8           1.8          1.8          2.6
Depreciation                                1.2           1.4          1.5           1.8
Net Flzed Assets                            0.6           0.4          0.3          0.8
Total Aseets                               (0.9)         (1.6)        (2.3)        12.0
Source: Consultantu and Bank Staff
WAPTI
March 1986



- 104 -                                                                        Amex 5-B
T   1  ~~~~~~~V!p                                                   of 2
PlMS  NILII6TIN  1EC1
Froat lcm Statmat far Ft-15
(in ails  illim)
n U                   i1                       t                   aw 1 m                 19                      n -.
*^lTaaii Tm   Tot.1 Ta    il  T       ToTal   writ  Tm    Total Tatrai Tm    Tot   Takradi  TM    Total Tkri  TM   Tbl
tsi brute_n
flnts .u  tap                      9.3  24.7    39.0   10.7  32.2    42.9   11.7  33.2    N.Y   12.7  34.2    4L9   IL7  35.1    47.1   137   3.                   4J.1
thvarno                           49.2 204.1   253.3   57.3 223.4   2J1.7   U.l  214.4   279.7   49.0  25.   294.3   74.3  234.1   311                   242      32L4
ntarS amJ m                        0.9   L.9      La    1.4   2.         2.9    1.   L0       L2      1.    LO      L2      1.0   LO L2.0  2.      LB    LO  -  L2
Vs el Facilities
Uft   s                            0.L  14.7    IL7    0.0  13.5    335    0,0  19.5    39.5    0.0  19.5    19.5    L0   205               2L5    0.0  21.5    21.5
Omlbr  rut s  using               11.2  40.0    51.1   12.7  43.9    5i.   ILI7  45.           W      33.7  4i.       0.5   14.1  46.1    1.4   14.6  50L3 
Fmral pet dN                      24.2  9.2   114.3   3.3  103.5   131.1   3L2  I3L2    144.5   35.1  3LD   15i.2   3. I329.3   147.    4L9  3IV.4   3IL
Cup brute
ltarwa                            2.       .     24.9   30.3 0.0    30.3   33.2   0.0    5.2  3L9   0.0               L9   39  0.            39    40.1   0.0   4I.L
OWN 6ailing                       44.0  244.    310.1   75.2  26i.5   337.1   3L.  203.3   364.1    ".3  291.4   301.7   93.1  3.1   409.2  10.1  313.7   420.4
ugs Fcziliti:a
tsrfage tens                      2L3   0.    103.2   27.3  9L7    120.1   30.3  13(.5   131.1   34.2  107.4   141.5   37.1  1U.2   15L3   4L0  12L               U5.
rwap d                             3.7  92.9    96.7    3.   97.4   101.5    L9   97.4   101.5    3.   97.1   101.5    3.9   7.4   101.5    3.9  97.4   I1.5
ISwry Incne                         10.4  17.0    2.0   11.0  IL         29.0   IL3      u.0    30.0   13.0  19.0    32L0    4.0  20.0    34.0   15.   21.0    34.
Totl                       221.4  m.I   1041.1  257.7 e4.3  3152.1   L.  94.4  1209.7  36110.3  9.2  1273.0  333.1 1005.2  1335.  31.4 1L4   147.4
Tariff lo1ise                                                                                                          2L0  75.4   36e.4   54.2  15L9   21i.1
T1 . E^L                   221.4   2.3lI  143.1  257.7 34.3  1152.1  233.0 92.4  12329.7  361.1  944.2  1273.0   I. I0t.4I r 1..7   415.4 1205.   1431.4
o.ating Cats
P__1l                              197.3  347.3   5i5.0  192.2  3549   59.0   33.5  34L4   533.0   IQ.1  339.1   521.4  1U3.3  334.4   517.5  17L9 33L3    3IL5
F-=, Fm., Meter                      9.3  22.1    31.3   10.3  24.0    34.3   IL   24.3    35.4   11.5  250            4.9  ILI  2L9    37.    IL5   2.5    30.0
a_t-im nlet. I  etariat             22L.   2L7     49.2   3L.   42.4    15.7   5W.4  41.9   117.3   6.2   1L2   1531.4   tLo  97.0   177.0   U3.5  13   32LS
tn    otlW      Woss                10.4  2L0      31.5   11.4  21.7    3L1    ILO   25    34.5    12.   23.0    35.    33.1  2L3            3.7   13.4  24.1    37.
Aiaintratiu                         14.3   3.2    54.5   14.3  3L2    54.5   143   3.2    54.5   IL3   3L2             54.5 3tL3  33.2    54.5   11.3  32           54.
la  Mts                              4.3  17.5    22.3    5.4  IL9          .3    5.   20.3    247       L5   2L1    29.1    7.0  24.4    31.4    7.7  24.2   35.
thrking Cat                241.3 49L5   75L3   211.5 502.3   770.3  237.  514.5   601.5  297.7  531.5   293.2  301.5  S45            at  3uLs  U4.           7.1
Irnciatiu _I dortiatie             314.9 26e.1   377.0  121.2 269.8   393.0  133.4 270.4   419.0  14L5 303.5   45s.   357.3  30.    44.   16S5  SILs   472.
TtIL WSTIIS cu             373.2 752    1130.3  369.7 M7.   I14.1  424.4  MJ.1  1211.5  44L2  53.0  1279.2    L.4 O03  3 .9  52L0  125.2  1451.1
lbt orating        sI(lm            (3I )      4    439.1) (1p0) 122.3    49.6) 14343   141.5    41.9)  137.4) 133.3     1.2) 43L.5  230.2   323.7  U(L.41 277.3    47.4
o Oerating huus tffusi                 4.4  L4       11.0    LI  10.2    17.0   10.4  15.4    2L.0   ILO 12.0 1          3e.    IL3       tO   30.0    1O  33.        3.0
interet bea                           1.5   3.5       5.     4.3   7.2    33.5   41.1  4.5         5.6   1q  323.5   233.   33.9 216.1   363.   190L  241.9   432L
Met laei/(Inal after ltt            (15.   70.5   (E.1) 1131.6  325.3    44.31 (374.0  112.4   (41.5) 434.9  25.3  1219.21 (23.6)  4LI  (2143) 2.5L   53.9  (23.4)
Signficut  ati.
- thkin  Ratio                        1.11  L.6      .12    1.04  0.56    0.4    1.01  054    L4    0L9  0.55    L.45    0L    U.SO   0e               0O   0.51    L.O
-   ratiq Rhtio                       1.71  0.9      3.09   1.51   6        1.01   l.51  0.5    3.04    1.45  0."       1.00   1.30  0.79    0.92    I.2   077    0.L
- Tim  latorst Cor  by
llt  eatboig h nes               4104.3)  19.3   (17.31  120.3  17.1      0.7)  43.52  3.2      3.0)   41.3)   3.      3.0)  (0.7)  1.3      L      4.4   1.1         .4
- Tim   Mt bucic     u sse
by Ca  3tuatad frmn  oratian                                             29.5                    1                     2.0                    1.7                    Ls
- htram  Met Fluid hb
in De t2 L                                                                                                                                                          2.7
V  1395 fipu n awe mona   ntnti  fr E%   HU                 . TC. Far 19e36-19 th  ffiq     am hw am
hwIuEmenltu   ad 3.1   af.
wn
til l



- 105 -                                              Annex 5-4
Wm                                                 Pfte 2 of 2
PETS U1IUTATIU PJECT
Feant limc   Statmot for FU-IS
(im Cdii ailliw)
3991                  12                    1M3                   194                    1995
lahradi TM    Total rakoradi Tm    btal Takoradi Tm    Total Takoradi TM    Total Tahrai  TM    Ttl
Uwatio time R
Vowl Srvica
Piloto  d top                    13.7  3.1     50.1   13.7  31.1    51.7   14.0  39.9    5LY    14.0  40.9    54.9   14.0  41.9    SL9
tdoritq                          UA.4  2530.    37.0   E.4 259.3   347.7   93.3  274.0   367.4   97.3  J2.0   379.3  1O.S 29.9   390.2
Ustor -d sur                      i.e   tO       2.9    1.0   2.0      3.0    1.0   2.0       3.0    1.0   tO       3.0    1.0   2.0      3.0
tIl Faciltiou
ULt bo                            0.0  21.5    21.5    0.0  22.4    2L4    0.0  22.9    2L9    0.0  23.9    23.9    0.0  23.9    23.9
ther rat ad mnq4                 14.6  51.7    66.4   14.1  52.7       7.3   15.0  54.9       9.8   1.0  55.    71t.    16.0  5L          72.1
_om' wt m                        43.9  42.5   15.4   44.9  147.4   t92.3   47.9  155.7   203.5   49.9  141.4   211.5   51.9  145.4   217.5
Carp Stits
U-Lhtora                         40.1   0.0    40.3   39.9   0.0    39.9    0.7   0.0    40.7   39.7   0.o    39.7   39.7   L.0    39.7
Ori hwliog                      112.7 32L4   436.1  116.4  334.1   450.7  124.1 353.5   477.6  129.1 364.4   493.5  135.0 373.3  5U.4
Cgp Failltios
triage be                        42t9  27.9   170.9   43.9  132.7   176.7   46.9  140.7   137.4   49.9  146.7   195.4   50.9 150.7   20L5
tage cha  s                       3.9  97.4   101.5    3.9  97.    131.5    4.0  W.8 9      13.      4.0  ".3   103.       4.0   9.A    13.9
SA  IOcsO                         15.0  21.0    31.0   15.0  2Z.0    37.0   25.0  24.0    39.0   15.0  24.0    39.0    5.0  23.0    40.
Total                     375.0 1075.3  1450.3  3B1. 1100.4  1490.2  401.9 1147.4  159.2  414.3 1201.2  1414.0  427.7 12Z9.I  '51.
Tariff Increases           ".4  284.9   334.3  101.2 293.7   394.9  106.5  i".4   415.8  109.9 31B.3   42.2  113.3 32L7   439.0
WTUL 5E S                 474.3 130.2   134.1  493.0 1402216B5.1  51111.4 1474.7  195.1  524.7 1519.5  3044.2  541.1 1554.7  2015.
Uporathog bibg
PWasi                             179.9   4.0   513.9  I9L6 331.1    20.1  194.5  342.6   527.1  I3.3 347.3   535.0  119.4 351.9   541.2
Fhl, Pawr, Matr                    1L2    27.0    39.6   12.6  27.2    39.9  14  27.4    40.0   IL     27.4    40.2   12.6  27.9    40.5
hopti  Rint. I flhtorials         157.9  195.1   352.9  172.7 212.1   3B4.B  172.7 212.2   394.9  172.7  212.1   314.9  172.7 21L1   394.9
hor  Operatiog Cots                13.7  24.4    3.3   13.7  24.9    38.5   13.7  24.9    3.4    13.7  25.1    3.9    13.9  3              39.2
ubisistratio                       14.3  38.2    54.5   14.3  3.2    54.5  11.i  392    54.5   14.3  38.2    54.5   163  3L2    54.5
hd Mb                               9.0  27.3    35.3    3.2  23.7    31.9    9.5  30.1    39.4    9.9  31.4    40.4    9.1  33.0    QA
orhiog Cut                3I.3 44.2  1034.5  405.4  449.1  1074.4  40B.3  475.4  1063.7  411.4 4IL5   10&.1  413.9    3   1102.2
hlrciatim ad Aortizatim           140.5  311.5   472.0  146L2 314.9   477.0  159.1 322.9   4BL0   141.4 327.6   499.0  164.3 33.7   499L
lUTIL W4TU  EDIT          54B.9  957.7  1504.5  567.7 913.9  1551.1  567.4  99L3   15I5.7  572.9 1010.1  12IS1   579.3 1021.9  leS.2
lot Uwatioq h/mn llenl              (74.') 402.5   32B. 1 B4.71 418.2   333.5  (59.01 473.4   419.4  (4B.0l 50.4   461.4  (37.2) 532.9 n5.4
on Uperating bI       /Im)           12.0  19.0    30.0   ILt    IB.0    30.0   I.   I9.0    30.0   IL0   11.0    30.0   L20   13.0    30.0
ltt  Char                           194.2 237.    431.5  1717 2Z4.9  401.6  155.5 2042   343.7  1533.  IBtO    341.9  140.0  171.1   311.0
Not lM     oJII) stu utmot         16.O )13.2   173.4) 1249.4 211.3   (39.1) 1202L51 290.2    V.7  11I9.1 339.4   149.4  1145.V  1.1   214.6
Sigificmt Ratio
-         Weiog Ratio                0.2    46    0.6   L.4  0.4B    0.57   0.B   0.44    0.55   0.73  0.45            .54   0.77  0.44    0.53
- wa         ltua                    1.14  0.70    0.32   I.Il  0.70    0.92   1.12  0.48    0.79   1.09  e.66 (A       77   1.07   0.4      0.74
- Tim ltt Co  hy
t owratio  htorns                  0.4)  1.7      0.3   (0.5)  1.9      %.9   (0.41   LS       1.2  I(.1)  L7        1.3   10.3)  L.       1.4
- Tim  lit Sutes Cerod
by Cam  howat    *ra  oratio                      1.4                   1.2                    1.4                   1.5                   1.7
-htwo  lot Fia hos
io he (I)                                        5.7                   *.2                   B.2                    9.5                  10.7
*  In   biuttab s a ts RiStaff.
1TI
dmc M



Wrn
FTll KEWILITATIE INWECT
PrujKctd   mcnn and Alluationo of Fads - FIM1  to 2995
........ .......   ___......_.._.._.._._.__.
11In Codlo olIleloo
Takoadi  Tms  Total  ltakadi  To     Total  Takradil   1         Total  Takoradi Tea   Total Takoradl  1T          Total Takoradl  1T      Total
11l OF FMZ
lutarmal Uoratbu of Fadii
..... ..... _. _.. _....
ltt Oltratiol hnue/llnsl            -156.5   47.4    19.1  -It2.0  122.3    -9.1  -143.4  241.5    -1.9  -137.4  131.3    -6.2  -20.5  230.2   121.7  -110.4  277.3    147.4
lopclatlm  ad lortlzati              11t.9  2tO.1   3771.0   121.2  26t.3    391.0   119.4  210.4    410.0   I44,5  301,5   450.0  151.1 1304.9   442.0  160.5  311.5   472.0
ta-l  ratl hus1         lootl          4.4    4.4    11.0      6.3  10.2    17.0    10.4  15.6        24.0   12.0  11.0    30.0    12.0  11.0    30.0    12.0  11.3    30.0
Total                             -35.2  334.2    2.9   -4.0  402.3   3".2          6.4  427.7   434.1   23.1  450,3   473.3   40.6  553.1   413.7   42.1  407.4    69.4
Iorrooloqoi
..........
ropoed 1i3 lCrdit                                             31.0   37.0    43.0   223.0  174.0    397.0  211.0  215.0   491.0   63.0  122.    205.0   39.0  54.0    95.0
RCEF - Japm                                                     .0  107.0   203J0   168.0  I15.0   324.0  255.0  222.0   477.0  122.0  113.0   241.0    -
kiodl Fud                                                                                   114.0    174.0    -     334.0    334.0    -     219.0   119.0    -       73.0    73.0
EEC                                                                                    M.0    -      f5.0   112.0    -      112.0   65.0    -        68.0    39.0    -        39.0
hmarnt Loa  to Cover Import Tat                               34.0  30.0    72.0   102.0  110.0   212.0   204.0  114.0   386.0   45.0   75.0   140.0    9.0   17,0             24.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~._.... .  .. ._...    ._.... .   ... ..   _. ..... ......... .. ......... .. .........  ....  .... ..    
Total                                                     141.0  182.0   343.0  5813.0  *14.0  1202.0   357.0 1015.0  1172.0  341.0  429.0   770.0   17.0  144.0   233.0
TotalFerds Available              -35.2  334.2    M.9   157.0  584.3   741.2   594.4 1041.7   1434.1   30O.2 1445.3   2345.3  401.4  962.1   133.7   149.1  753.4   902.4
MICAIIOU     S FUOS
Propeud ProKet                                                1t0.0  232.0   342.0   40.0  635.0  1239.0    79,0 1054.0  1943.0  354.0  442.0    74.0   93.0  156.0   249.0
Other Iavntmts
kit wvice Cor;os:
ltorent                                                        6.3    7.2    23.5    41.0  44.4    35,4   109.0  124.0   233.0  163.0  205.0   363.0   192.0  240.0   432.0
lcreaoeIkcreaselin Uoklmq
CtItal EacldiJo  Citi                               250.0                   200.0                   200.0                   220.0                    200.0                   230.0
Total Fuds Appli                                  250.0                   555.5                  1524.6                  2394.0                  2344.0                   911.0                  H
Caii rploo (dofllciti for te yeu                        .19                  1255.17                  11.5                    -50.2                    19.7                     -.4
Cab at khluloq of h  Yew                              10MI5                   12.4                    344.2                   455.7                    405.6                   425.3
Cah at odd if the Yea                                 29i.4                   344.2                   455.7                   405.4                   4n. 3                    41247
11  1IM  flown  we cumliatwi ntlasiot  for NA, ACt and TLC. Frw  1-1995 Iko fleras  re fer wo .
Sorte:  Cose ltmt  ad lank  talf.
NortC 1916
d                                                                         



*  a                                                      G~~~~~~~~~~HAllA. 
FORTS PEHA6ILIIATION PROJECT
....;........................
Projected Source   nd Applications of Funds - F1195S to 1995
(in Cedis millioni
1q1l                        1992                         1993                         1994                        1995
.......... ..........................  -------------   .... ..................... ........................-------------.-.......
laboradi   Teen    Total  laioradi   Tema    Total  Takoradi  Tvim    Intel  lTkoradi   Teme    Total  lahorada   Telo   Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal 6eneration of Funds:
............. ................ .... 
Net Operating Pevenue,'lossl                -14.4  402.5       328.1   -84.7   416.2        333.5   -59.0   479.4        419.4    -48.0  509.4       41.4    -37.2  532.6         495.6
Depreciation dnd Amortization               100.5  311.5       472.0    162.2   3141.       417.0    159.1  322.9        492.0    141.4   327.6    469.0    1c4.)  333.7    499.0
Mon-Operating Revenuet  ineti                12.0    19.0       30,0      12.0    1510       30.0      12.u    18.0       30.0     12.0    19.0       30.0      12.0    19.0       30.0
Total                                   b9.1  732.0        830.1      69.5  751.0       840.5    112.0  811.3        931.4    125.3  855.1       990.4    139.1  884.5    1023.6
8orroemnqsi
Proposed IDA Credit
OECF - Japan
Saudi Fund
EEC
Government Loan to Cover laport Ian
Total
Total Funds Available                    98.1  732.0       830.1      89.5  751.0       940.5    112.0  619.3        931.4    125.3  855.1       980.4    139.1   984.5    1023.6
APFLICATION OF FUNDS
Proposed Project
Other Investments                                                                  200.0     200.'s            200.0      200.u      50.0  150.0      200.0   100.0  200.0         300.0
Debt Service Charqeos:
Interest                                    193.7   231.8      431.5    176.9  224.1        401.6    155.1  206.8       361.7    153.3  168.5        341.8    139.5   171.5       311.0
Repavymnt                                    82.4    84.1       16.7    135.0  164.1        299.1    135.0   144.'       299.7    135.0  164.7       299.7    135.0  164.1        299.7
Incr,aseIiDecreoseiin Woringq
Capital ECcluding Cash                                        210.0                        100.')                       150.0                       100.0                        100.0                                             e
Total Funds Applied                                        908.2                       1001.3                       1011.4                       941.5                       1010.7                                          a
Cash Surplus ldeficit'  for the lear                              21.9                      -160.8                        -80.0                         38.9                        12.9
Cash at Neginninq of the lear                                    416.7                       439.4                        277.8                        197.0                       236.7
Cosh  ot end of the lear                                        438.6                        277.6                        197.8                        236.7                       249.6
Source: Consultants and lant Staff.
lAPTI
March 1906



PORS REHlIILITATION PROJECT
Sueary Balance Shet;s fow  1915 to 1995   1'
. .... _.... ..................
(in CedIS sillionS
191         19`1        1907        i99a        1919        1990        1991        1992        IS3         1,94        19,95
ASSETS                      -----...--                       ....         ....         --         --          ... .       .. .. .   .. . ._
Current Assius
..............
Cash at tnkt and on hand                       156.4       £44.2       455.1       405.4       425.1       41.7         436.t       277.9       197.8       216.7       249.6
Recevahiles                                    458.0       460.0       420.0       422.0       360.0       405.0       361.0        370.0       391.0       410.0       420.0
Inventory                                      101.0        25.0        50.0       100.0       120.0       130.0       150.0      1l0.0        200.0       220.0       230.0
.. ...      .    .....     -----       -----......_...... _...    
Subtoltl                                  7119,4      029.2       925,7       927.&        905.3      951.7        955.4      927.8        794.6       866.7       M19.6
Fuied Assets
. ... .......
Gross depreclable assets                     12t00.0    12918.0    13192.0    14419.0    14729.0    1454.0    14954.0    15154.0    15354.0    15554.0    15054.0
Lensi Accumulated depreciatiun               -2915.0    -0259.0    4453.0   -9593.0   -6523.0    4S973.0    -9445.0    -9922.0  -10382.0  -10649.0  -11375.0
.... -----    .. ......   . ....... ........ . ......   .. ...... ........ ----    ...-.. .......   ..........._ . .__._
Net hook value                             9725.0      4660.0       4529.0     5595.0       6206.0      591.0       5509.0      5232.0      4972.0      4705.0      4529.0
aork in progress                              50.0       450.0        00.0      1200.0      1150.0       500.0       100.0        50.0        50.0        50.0         50.0
.. .....   .... .... .._ . .....  . .. .... .........      _._.........    ----                  ----        ----         ---
Subtotal                                 9775.0      5110.0      5329.0      7095.0      135t.0    .491.0        5609.0      5292.0      5022.0       4755.0      4579.0
Otner Assets                                     30.0        35.0         35.0        S5.0        35.0        35.0        35.0        35.0        35.0        35.0        15.0
............                                  .......   ........ ... .. ..   . .... ..   .......    ----.---                                  .. .....        _        _____......
TOtAL ASSETS                            10524.4      5974.2      6269.7    6051.4        9296.       7447.7       599.S .    6144.9      5951.9      5656.7      5513.6
C.C
LIABILITIES
..... . ..
Current LiAbilities
PayIbleS                                       112.0       1            12.0  I9.  172.0       154.0       160.0       200.0       250.0        260.0       210.0       225.0
Other luabuliutie                              165.0       211.0       295.0       300.0       310.0       335.0       309.0        240.0       200.0       220.0       210.0
_.    ._ ---  --   ----          ----.---    ......    .......    ----                         ---- ....._..
Subtotal                                  297.0       333.0       478.0        472.0      464.0       555.0        509.0       510.0       460.0       430.0       435.0
Equitv
Capital                                         79.0        18.0        78.0         79.0        79.0        76.0        79.0        76.0        78.0        76.0        76.0
Aetoined earnings/reserve                    10149.9      5212.2      4472.7      4742.4      4379.3      3292.7      2597.4      2441.6      24981.      2433.7      2795.6
...... .__ _  .. . _-_-_-._.-_---_.----___.-_---_--- -                                                                                                                    .-
Subtotal                                10227.4      5370.2      4550.7      4840.4      4457.3      3370.7      2475.6      2519.6      2576.6       2711.7      2163.6
Lonq-term Loans                                 -           271.0      1261.0      2745.0      3375.0      3562.0      3415.0      3115.0      2615.0       2515.0      2215.0
--    --    -- - -                  .. . .      --- -- __                                          -----    .         _ _ _   _ _ _
TOTAL LIAIILITIES                       10524.4      5974.2      6219.7      9057.4      6296.3      7467.1      4599.4      4144.6      551.6       5656.7      5513.6
Current Ratio                                     2.4          0.1         1.9         2.0         2.0         5.6         5.9         5.4         1.7         2.0         2.5
Llquld Rlatio                                      2.1         2.4         I.6         5.9         1.7         1.6         1.t         1.3         1.3         1.5         1.5
Oebtilguity Ratio:                              0/100        5/f9       22/71        36164      431/57      52146        56144      55145        52146       43152       44154
.................            ......._  .
I   ISSS  liqures are consolidattd estimates few  6PA, SCl  and TLC.  For 191S-195 the filaro; ap for 6PM.
Sourcoi Consultants and Sank Staff.
'APTI
Merch 1911



- 109 -
Annex 5-7
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Accounting, Budgeting, Auditing and Insurance
Accounting
1.        GPHA will follow GPA's accounting systems with a number of
essential improvements. GPA's accounting procedures for revenues and
expenditures are well documented. The overall control systems are good
but they are not always applied in practice. Basic accounting is done
manually but the salary payroll and expenditure analysis are computer-
ized in Takoradi.   Considerable  delays occur,  however,  in Tema  in
forwarding accounting data to the computer center in Takoradi. Debtors'
ledgers are not kept up-to-date and it is difficult to balance sundry
debtors' accounts. Accounts are, therefore, very much in arrears. To
date, only up to 1981 audited accounts are available for GPA. Work is
in progress for completing audit of i982-1984. Submission of completed
GPA's audit reports for 1982, 1983 and 1984 is a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 5.14). The 1985 accounts are expected to be com-
pleted and audited by August 1986.   There is an acute shortage of
qualified  and  experienced  accounting  staff  at higher  level.   Only
recently two accountants have been appointed.  Meaningful management
information reports are non-existent and whatever reports are prepared
they are done with much delays.   The main problems are ti) lack of
direction or effective control, (ii) some of the present system is
outdated and at many instances the work is duplicated, and (iii) the
computer center being at Takoradi instead of Tema compounds the problem.
GCHC and TLC accounts are, on the other hand, well organized, well kept
and fairly up-to-date. At higher level qualified and experienced staff
is in place and many supervisors and clerks are semi-qualified. The
accounting work is almost totally manually done but since the level of
competence is good the existing staff could be trained in modern tech-
niques. A complete reorganization of the financial division will be
carried out under the agreed re-organization framework for port sector.
Accounting Systems will be streamlined and effective control will be
established through proper channel of communication and reporting
responsibilities.
Cost Accounting
2.        Neither of the three entities had any proper cost accounting
system. Although the agencies have attempted to carry out cost analyses
of the port operations,  there is a need to establish a comprehensive
management and cost accounting system particularly for tariff setting
purposes. This system will enable GPHA to analyze and compare costs and
revenues of a cost or activity center. Operational and statistical data
will be prepared to integrate costs with operations and to use them for
costing, tariff setting and operation controlling purposes. Efficient



- 110 -
Annex 5-7
Page 2 of 2
and inefficient areas will be identified and the management will be
guided to make appropriate decisions. This system will help develop a
sound pricing policy where tariffs will be based on cost of efficient
operations. Such a svstem will also be integrated with flexible budget-
ary  control  and  responsibility  accounting.   Through  the  technical
assistance component, experts will be hired to establish a combined cost
accounting system and the tariff structure and levels for GPHA as a
whole.
Budgeting
3.        The CPA used to prepare annual capital and expenditure budgets
and submit them to the Government for approval but the budgets were
often  prepared  with  considerable  delays.   Furthermore,  the  budgets
showed only established staff positions rather than wnat is actually
required.   CCHC and TLC did not have any budgetary control system.
Under the proposed project, experts will be hired to establish proper
procedures to maintain a flexible budgetary control system. The budget
will be submitted to the Board of Directors for approval prior to
commencement of the fiscal vear.  GPHA head-office will be responsible
for consolidating annual budget and other financial statEments of the
two ports for submission to the GPHA Board for approval
Auditing
4.        Annual auditing is carried out by three qualified private
external auditors for the three agencies. Now that GPHA is formed, only
one -xternal auditing firm on acceptable terms and conditions to IDA
will be appointed. The standard audit covenant has been included in the
project agreement.  The audit report will comprise audited financial
statements, auditor's opinion and the management letter which will
include the review of the accounting system. Before the merger, GPA and
CCHC each had an internal audit section. Although this section followed
an established audit procedural manual with reasonably acceptable
standards, improvements are required to further develop the art of
internal auditing and control, the strengthening of internal checks and
the introduction of management audit concepts to measure efficiency and
performance.  Such improvements will be introduced under the technical
assistance and training component of the project.
Insurance
5.        None of the three agencies used to re-insure their assets with
foreign firms. Agreement has been reached with GPHA to re-insure marine
crafts and shore-cranes with a foreign insurance company. In the event
of damage or loss of the insured assets, the insurance company will
compensate the losses in foreign exchange so that GPHA or the Government
will not be burdened with foreign exchange difficulties. GPHA will pay
the premium in foreign exchange.   GPHA is in contact with the State
Insurance Corporation of Ghana to finalize a re-insurance policy with
foreign insurance agencies.
WAPT1
March 1986



IBRD 18484R1
31-                   2-                     v°o                                   
BURKINA FASO
GHANA
ADMINISTRATIVE AND
;    . RtGIOGA-                            TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
UPPER WEST  \K  e
REGIONO         f H    J   w           REG;
S~~~~~~~~~~~0oo.                                         ) i _  -                     rlna\1
C     AST        (t                                                                                   r rE  .na rapita
N 0 R T H  qN., ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     --   eqo Bunare
O    7N .                                            . .
6'  WESTERN'                                                                                                 / -  6' ,_ Primary Roads
-                 5          <                 I        f r\               dMasorSecondary Road,
E V O  RTY      . \   a  --   \        - Orhet SeConddV Roads
\ \ \ I J °sar '   REd  \;J  _"           R;droarls
\    {   a                          L.,     > ~~~~~~~~~~~~sh.\  13   Region Headqluarters
0  102030_\)/ 0 0MIL National Capital
86 1 / ; g ! >\ ^ - s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~InternatSonal Boundaries
81                                                                                             Ports~~9'O    Taord   
/G^ / f  G-. -A H A C -0   R EG                0  2S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k ~ I  560Wwdhi D   lbodB*  Ib    -'*  . SWlb
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~." '                                                     - d' .i ,--n!°) I
rt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cp.b Ti -,w~. r.d 90 9ASbNTW   0. -                                            lTGOr
Ambub.                    W   o Ti. 0    -9      M u
7'                                    A Sx F^ INS T'                                                                       7 -  b
X,>~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A 5 *weET ER IT4  !E G tb N g
-61  WESTC-RNI                                                       _71/1.1~~~ 0 Ol bb @ ~ 600 w~   o W~   d~90~
.   z              -',  --~ ) 'REG\30N¢            c
CoAsr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
-5 .                                                                                      40    -- MILES 5J 1986
0   0   40  60   80 K:ILOMErERS
Th.  _ aM b0orr tOW 01 R Wt 81W` SW   for so cooelo or_
'J'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fn   Coe.&r :W                                                     a. Mee mm de d_ r er
. %* 1m NW dwo nw *esg11  " "Wroffi=    _sft  weapw s d
3|-              21-                    l'01°                                          I- 22
JANUARY 1986



IBRD 18484R1
BURKINA FASO                                     r
GHANA
,z_                             r- 0~ ADMINISTRATIVE AND
-f'   -   !GOtGAT*t4  9  >              TRANSPORT INFRACTRUCTURE
(UPPER WES.                o
REGION                    w le
lo    \  T^ ~~~~~~~.J                    e             L                                              1
\ K % 4C~~'NRTHERN                 _RE-ioo N
10.  -.                 .                                                                                 100b)
_rRo~~~~~~                                          K- 0   -Y  rpr
-91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
Po.g          N osvr_/  :  sbJO   'Primary Roads
/<   \   _t~-  i   f>>iX  - - - Major Secondary Roads
I V O-R Y   \  X \  *  /  j   °Sdqgo    Other Sec-onddry Roads
CS@Igo O A S0T  \    t   53 )  i ,f ;4 -l:--9    Region Headqua ters
COAST    \           B0.~                                             ~                      National Capital
e-inBoundaries
5   |  ,t'   i _3  '   - >   (  _   International Boundaries
80                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ports
I - -    )8>^j5-~AHA. O  REGiON                            _                    Pot
70~                                                                                                            70
/u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K~ROJt --    - 
W.%~~~Do
*T                                                 M . -  tS >NN
.6  WESTERN-                                                             o    1
' >-Sd >< y , tK~~~~~~~' 
w~~~~~~~~~~                   T~~~~~~~~ 
W~~.5e rta,a0 r° 
.   !   . i -    t   REGCG.4 C
REGION G
_ , = t js ~~~~~~~~~~COAE ST
50              *   a                                      0 10 20 3,0 0 AO5O  MIllS
0  20 40  wO  8o KILtOMErERS
G                                           N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tW aori  act..vrd  fivI. "   B.*wa  Do "W ab  aw* W mimmo
Fi. s Caid  l         ma o _ br r &=-*-a m  o M_  doin
r ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~. a,  us-    _ 1                     a.i   w a.a   ,u mwa  C.p,MTl V sd    U
.WV. , go pot 4 The _fd 0 Mg    CD_MI  _ _-*
NW MIM.  Grow am b    W WV      of*ANUAY  btu98
I         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
JANUARY 1986



*  ATRMAGE AND WAGON SHED          ~~/                               LN  OR
-                     ~~~~~~~HARBO MASTER5 OFFICE 
-~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                                                  )
%RAILWAY STATIMM       2
CNnE-  ENt,.NLE 5RIN  DEPOT                     NCENTRAI KI
-xx (i  ;COMMERCIAL WAREHOUSE AREA
'    /   '  / /- ' SD/ c
~~~~~EERCI M(...A.. kA  'ANC/SH=P
____-    _____                                                                                                         El2
,,,    X                \_\ X I I Or!IJO?                     I 
Xi ., _i r   W A R )                    1
RUEKINA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ FO IDSO  OP
'~       Porod    ;       ot,  [iGHANA9'i Z  [ I
-- T     uJf o fr Guinea    t-Iniowl i                 |
_______________________________________________Rehab_____ IaiO
Gulf of Guinea  ~~~~. -  IIItKITIOtlOflOI BndanED 



IBRD 19250
-°t                              ~~~~~GHANA 
t   PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECTION
} ~~~~PROPOSED PROJECT WORKS AT TEMA/ 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
}~~~ ''-' - '-;-         ,~1~E 
FSHINAGE HARBOR
/ j \ ~CENT CLINKER  i.9
/W     . GRINDING PLANT  ,;GIN;ERING- -ID
'              /IlN OUT S                FISHING£OW  S
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
}UTER
FISFISHING      H
HARBOR
MAIN HARBOR
Nm ifls7 ORE OUTER SOUIH  AXWAT
Now Facilitie
Facilities to be Rehabilitated
A     Wreck Locations
,   -,  _  Existing Roads
Existing Railroads
Security Fence
Harbor Boundary
0      100    20D    3:0    400      SO Me".
Th. ,.e.-be ~W  1%be Ri..V a- SM. AtW.oe.f beb . o
Few'ee C.ev"M" lb. 6~be .dn. MI'e a" -n  n e..p ,o
-    r Iwo vowst Th  WkB   oe . a*n,dwo.,.e- C.0-0- .i....
..me vfeI gIM,n do,, INiov _n .w VMWIM ___ cbev. ~f aOd bvBEu18
OCTOBER 1985



,BA\,UXITE -U _
BAUXiTXI.up \PORTS  REHABILI
CDfeARO ,hG RAM                                                                  PROPOSED  PROJECT
X  ,W;- \V\-DFI'-- ANDS WOMCHO
I 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
;c-, gW  crFM(NT FAC'TOIvY
0 o   t   \    .;  cOAI   k    COMMERCIAL
AND
AND> |i<|            --  'iSt;                       5INDUSTRIAL
c01    ENGINFERING    -         I '  ;C)(\
OFFICFS AND WORKSHOPS                                                      \-                                                                                |
RAIL~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~. WAYSORG
NlECH&MNICAt AND ElFCTRtICAt \ '        .F '                              -            (i
~~~~* ''tT  i 01-  ,
-l -   TRANIION .-  E -
OFFICESF AN W; p._  I S                                                    Z
>.  |WNORTH LOG QUAY
S~~~~ -                              -OUN .                                                                     IDf
---        .             ' f~~~~~ SAWN IEiMW
_-                       L                                                                   A/|
NT     -A0AINISTRATIO N               cE *.
..     . .
iiv
MOCONG             AiN RtAWAY
,~~~~Ap { \m
r:                                                               __ .,.    



IBRD 19,
GHANA                                                Kumrsi
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT WORKS AT TAKORADI
Facilities to be Rehobilitt                           )
I&    Wredt Locotions                                    I'                      Kofori u
Existing Rocads                                   f
Existing Railroads                                                               f
Seaity Fence                                                   - ;'                 -
-vT ET bokmeb    n                                                                            A | eTem    -
-fTakorodi          8fu /GHANA!
Guff o1 C-L'wne
LEE BREAKWA4TER
W--PSmr                                                                      /1- 
- -0                                        --  '',.
MAIN BREAKWATER
OCTOBER 1-



