OFFICIAL CREDIT NUMBER 1674 GH
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Ports Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GHANA PORTS AND HARBOURS AUTHORITY
Dated               ,L1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1674 GB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       v4q      '            , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and GHANA
PORTS AND HARBOURS AUTHORITY (GPHA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 22,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that GPHA
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and GPHA, the proceeds of the credit pro-
vided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to GPHA on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Subsidiary Loan kgreement; and
WHEREAS GPHA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) GPHA declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and port mana-
gement practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) GPHA: (i) shall no later than October 31, 1986 open at
a commercial bank satisfactory to the Association and thereafter
maintain with adequate funds a project account (the Project
Account)  to   be  used  for  expenditures  under   the  Project;
(ii) shall pay into the Project Account GPRA's contributions to
the costs of the Project, including initial amounts (which GPHA
shall deposit into the Project Account no later than October 31,
1986), equivalent to $100,000 in foreign currency and $250,000 in
local currency; and (iii) shall until the completion of the
Project maintain at all times in the Project Account minimum
amounts in foreign and local currency which shall not be less
than the amounts of the initial deposits required under this
Section. The Borrower and GPHA estimate GPHA's contributions to
the costs of the Project to amount over the Project period to at
least $950,000 equivalent in foreign currency and $2,500,000
equivalent in local currency.
Section 2.02. GPHA shall establish and thereafter maintain a
project coordinating unit (PCU) in a form and with functions and
staffing satisfactory to the Association. PCU shall be primarily
concerned with ensuring: (A) effective co-ordination of repair
and rehabilitation work under the Project, and (B) the timely
adherence to the implementation timetables prescribed therefor.
Further provisions relating to PCU are set out in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) GPHA: (i) shall assign capable Ghanaian
counterparts to work with all consultants to be employed under
the Project in advisory and line management positions before and
throughout the period of the said consultants' employment; and
(ii) shall at least six months before the end of the employment
of all consultants employed under the Project in line management
positions, appoint capable Ghanaians to assume the responsibili-
ties of the said positions.
(b) GPHA shall no later than June 30, 1987 prepare and
furnish to the Association the terms of reference of a container
operations expert who shall be employed and assigned to the new
container handling company to be established pursuant to Sec-
tion 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿3
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project -ad to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. GPHA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.06. GPHA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, GPHA shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any pro-
vision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) GPHA shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) GPHA shall promptly iaform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the pro-
gress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by GFiiA of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GPHA
Section 3.01. GPHA: (i) shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and port management practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and (ii) to that end shall
prepare and carry out an action plan satisfactory to the Associa-
tion to strengthen its port management and improve its port oper-
ations.


﻿Section 3.02. GPHA shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and port management practices.
Section 3.03. GPHA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice, including foreign
reinsurance by GPHA of its floating craft and shore cranes.
Section 3.04. GPHA: (i) shall no later than December 31,
1986 carry out and complete, and furnish to the Association the
report of, a study satisfactory to the Association on customs and
port documentation; (ii) shall no later than June 30, 1987 (using
the findings and recommendations of the said study and in colla-
boration with the responsible agencies of the Borrower) prepare
and furnish to the Association a program (including a timetable)
satisfactory to the Association for the carrying out of the
study's recommendations and findings; and (iii) shall thereafter
in consultation with the Borrower carry out such parts of the
program as relate to GPHA in a manner satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) GPHA shall maintain separate records and
accounts (including separate records and accounts for its Tema
and Takoradi port operations) adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) GPHA shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   pr.iciples   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;


﻿-5-
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account are made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, GPHA shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GPHA shall take all necessary measures (including adjust-
ments of the structures or levels of its rates) during each of


﻿-6-
its fiscal years 1986 through 1989 to generate revenues suf-
ficient to cover all expenses related to port operations includ-
ing administration, adequate maintenance, interest and other
charges on debt and all increases in such expenses attributable
to inflation.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GPHA shall take all necessary measures (including adjust-
ments of the structures or levels of its rates) to generate in
each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year 1989 revenues suf-
ficient to cover: (i) all port expenses related to operations,
including administration and adequate maintenance; and (ii) the
higher of the following, namely, either (A) aggregate amounts of
debt repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) and
interest and other charges on debt, or (B) provision for depre-
ciation on a straight line basis, of GPHA's fixed assets in
operation as revalued in accordance with the provisions of Sec-
tion 4.06 of this Agreement, or on other basis acceptable to the
Association; and (iii) not less than 25% of the replacement costs
of GPHA's fixed assets retired during the fiscal year next
following the fiscal year in question as such costs shall be
assessed by GPHA and satisfatory to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Before November 30 in each of its fiscal
years, GPHA shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by GPHA and
satisfactory to the Association review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agree-
ment in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year
and shall furnish to the Association the results of such review
upon its completion.
(b) If any such review shows that GPHA would not meet the
requirements set forth in the said Sections 4.02 and 4.03 for
GPHA's fiscal years covered by such review, GPHA shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including adjustments of the struc-
ture or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, GPHA: (i) shall not incur before December 31, 1990,
any debt other than debt incurred to finance    the costs of the
Project; and (ii) shall not on or after December 31, 1990, incur
any debt whatsoever, unless the net operating revenues of GPHA
for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incur-
rence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date


﻿-7-
of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least
1.25 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of
GPHA for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of GPHA, includ-
ing the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means any indebtedness of GPHA
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) the term "net operating revenues" means total
operating revenues less total operating expenses;
(iv) the term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to port operations;
(v) the term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to port operations, including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
depreciation, on a straight line basis, of GPHA's
fixed assets, as revalued in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.06 of this Agreement, or
on other basis acceptable to the Association, but
excluding interest and other charges on debt;
(vi) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt; and
(vii) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such


﻿- 8 -
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.06. GPHA shall: (i) in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the
Association and commencing in 1986 revalue its fixed assets at
least once in every four years; (ii) annually between one such
revaluation and another use annual cost indexing methods satis-
factory to the Association to revalue GPHA's fixed assets; (iii)
have the results of all such revaluations to be certified by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and regularly
incorporated in GPHA's balance sheets; and (iv) promptly prepare
and furnish to the Association, for its review and comments,
until December 31, 1994 full and detailed reports on each reva-
luation made pursuant to this Section.
Section 4.07. (a) GPHA shall: (i) no later than June 30,
1987 furnish to the Association a plan satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for the improvement of GPHA's billing system and proce-
dures and its credit policy; and (ii) reduce the level of      its
accounts receivable as a percentage of its total operating reve-
nues to not more than: (A) 60% in fiscal year 1986, (B) 50% in
fiscal year 1987, (C) 33% in fiscal year 1988, (D) 25% in each of
the fiscal years 1988 and 1989, and (E) 20% in each fiscal year
foltowing thereafter.
(b) GPHA shall: (i) no later than January 1, 1987, estab-
lish a cost accounting section staffed by trained local personnel
to operate the cost accounting system to be installed pursuant to
this Section; and (ii) no later than January 1, 1988, install a
cost accounting system and a cost-oriented tariff structure
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.08. GPHA: (i) shall not undertake any fishing port
projects that are unlikely to generate port revenues sufficient
to cover all operating costs and debt service charges for such
projects; and (ii) until January 1, 1995 shall consult the Asso-
ciation before undertaking any rehabilitation and investment
projects in the ports subsector not included in the Project
likely to cost an amount or amounts equivalent to more than
$1,000,000 a year.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of GPHA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
GPHA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For GPHA:
Director of Marine Services
P.O. Box 150
Tema, Ghana
Telex:
2108 Ports GH
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of GPHA, or by GPHA on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by the Director General of GPHA or such other person or persons
as GPHA shall designate in writing, and GPHA shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
GHANA PORTS AND HARBOURS AUTHORITY
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in the Project shall be pre-
qualified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, Ghana may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and sub-
ject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guide-
lines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works in the ports of Tema and Takoradi estimated to
cost an amount equivalent to less than $300,000 per contract (up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000) and goods estimated to cost an amount equivalent to
less than $100,000 per contract (up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed an amount equivalent to $400,000) may be procured:
(i) under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association; or (ii) in cases of extreme urgency, under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of price quotations solicited from a


﻿- 13 -
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Proprietary items (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
an amount equivalent to $400,000) may be purchased under directly
negotiated contracts satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for works and goods esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of
the said Appendix shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding sub-paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information re-
quired to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evi-
dence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.


﻿- 14 -
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelinc,s.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist GPHA in carrying out the Project, GPRA
shall employ consultants (including engineering consultants to
supervise project works and a container operations expert) whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Project Coordinating Unit
1.   PCU shall have primary responsibility for initiating the
issuance of tender documents, evaluation of bids and procure-
ment. It shall be concerned with ensuring proper installation of
equipment, efficient execution of project works, project manage-
ment and coordination. PCU's functions shall include on-the-job
training of Ghanaian engineers and technicians in project super-
vision and procurement and preparation of regular reports on
project execution for submission to the Association and project
co-financiers. PCU shall also assist in the preparation of the
project completion report.
2.   PCU's staff shall include a Project Coordinator, a Procure-
ment Specialist, a Senior Project Accountant assisted by engi-
neering consultants who will supervise civil works in the Tema
and Takoradi ports. PCU shall also be assigned GPHA staff capable
in dealing with project accounts, procurement and engineering
supervision.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   -i day ofAj             ,
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


