RESTRICTED
Report No. PTR-2b
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
COSTA RICA
March 18, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Unit of Currency in use: Costa Rican colones (C)
Official Exchange Rate
1                       -    US$0.150
C 6.65                    -    US$1
¢ 6.650 million           -    US$1 million
C 1 million               -    US$150,000
Fiscal Year: January 1 to December 31
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US equivalents
1 meter (a)               m    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (Km)       2  -    0.62 mile (di)
I square kilometer (Km ) -    0.386 square mile (sq. si)
1 metric ton (m ton)      -    0.98 long ton
1 metric ton (a ton)      -    1.1 US short ton
ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE REPORT
BPR        -   United States Bureau of Public Roads
CABEI      -   Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM       -   Central American Common Market
DGV        -   Direccion General de Vialidad (Costa Rica Highway Department)
FEP        -   Ferrocaril Electrico al Pacifico
IDB        -   Inter-American Development Bank
JAPDEVA    -   Junta de Adoinistracion Portuaria y de Desarrollo Econoinco
de la Vertiente Atlantica
LACSA      -   Lineas Aereas Costarricenses S.A.
TCI        -   Transportation Consultants, Inc. (US)
TSC        -   TSC Consortium (US) - Consultants
TAMS/DYPSA -   TANS Ingenieria S.A. (US), Disenos y Proyectos S.A.
(Costa Rica) - consultants
USAID      -   United States Agency for International Development



COSTA RICA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUtMMARY ...........    i
1.   INTRODUCTION                    .................................  . .  ... 
2.   BACKCROUND INFORMATION .          .       .1......... ..,...1
A.   Geographic and Demographic ........................    *        1
B.   The Transport Sector ........... ..***.. v ..        ...        2
C.   Transport Coordinatio. ....                          . .        5
3.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ............................      .      .....    6
A.   Highway Administration .         ................. .........    6
B.   Highway Engineering .       .     ........................ .    7
C. Highway Construction                  .. ..
D.   Highiway Maintenance .       .    ..........................    8
E.   Highway Financing and Planning....                              9
4.   THE PROJECT ............. .. so . .   11
A. General Description .                   .                        11
B.   The Siquirres-Limon Highway                  .      .          11
C.   Design and Consulting Services          .       .              12
U.   Cost Estimates.... ........ .....    13
E. Disbursement                  . . .15
F.   Execution of the Project ...........................   16
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..  . . . . . . . ..  ....  ....  .  . .... .   17
A. Background                      .         .        ........ 17
B.   Project Area              .       .       .................   17
C.   Future Traffic and Transport Capacity ..                       18
D.   Economic Analysis of Project Road             . . .19
E. Feasibility Study    .. .                                        20
6. RECOMMENDATIONS.... 20
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission in August,
1968, consisting of Messrs. Schaefer (engineer) and Bronfaan (economist).
The project was re-appraised in February, 1970, by a mission consisting of
Messrs. Schaefer (engineer), de Navacerrada (engineer) and Ahlstrand (econo-
mis t) .



TABLE OF CONTENTS
- Page 2 -
ANNEX
1. Methodology for Economic Analysis
Annex 1 - Table 1 Atlantic vs. Pacific
Annex 1 - Table 2 Total Demand for Transport in the
San Jose-Limon Corridor and Traffic
to be Moved on the Road
Annex 1 - Table 3 Siquirres-Liwon Highway - Costs and Benefits
Annex 1 - Table 4 Sensitivity Analysis - Siquirres-Limon Highway
TABLES
1. Classification of Highways
2. Vehicle Fleet
3. Design Standards for Project Road
4. Highway Maintenance Expenditures
5. Highway Revenues and Expenditures 1962-1973
6. Highway Income and Expenditure Account: Current and Capital
7. Highway Investment 1962-1973
8. Siquirres-Llmon Highway - Estimate of Construction Cost
9. Traffic Projections - Atlantic Coast Corridor
10. Vehicle Operating Cost on Paved Roads
CHARTS
I    Organization Chart of the Ministry of Transportation
II   Organization Chart of the Ceneral Directorate of Highways
MAP
Costa Rica - Highway Network (IBRD-2377R)



COSTA RICA
APPRAISAL OF TUE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
1.        The Government of Costa Rica has asked the Bank to help finauce
a highway project comprising (i) the construction of a new hiighway between
Sliuirres and Limon (57 km) and (ii) consulting servicee 4vz e feesPihility
study for an improved road connection between San Jose and Siquirres.
ii.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, as well
as interest and other charges during construction, is estimated at US$22.2
million equivalent. The Bank will finance the foreign exchange element
of the project estimated at US$15.7 million. The balance will be provided
by the Government.
iii.      This would be the second Bank highway project in Costa Rica.  In
1961 a joint Bank/IDA/ Loan/Credit of US$11.0 million was made to help fi-
nance the National Highway Progran (Plan Vial). Progress on the project
lagged behind schedule due, among other factors, to periodic shortages of
local currency funds and the problems of carrying out a large number of
small works with local contractors. The Loan and Credit Closing Date was
December 1967 when 85% of a reduced program was completed; the Government
is continuing with the remainder of the program.
iv.       The project will be executed by the Ministry of Transportatiou
through the Direccion General de Vialidad (DGV) which has carried out the
feasibility study and detailed engineering. The US Bureau of Public Roads
(BPR) has provided technical assistance for preparing the project and will
help to supervise the construction. Contracts for the construction works
will be let on the basis of international competitive bidding.
v.        The San Jose-Siquirres-Limon road (already built from San Jose to
Siquirres) will provide the first highway connection.between the densely
populated Central Valley and the port of Limon on the Atlantic Coast. It
will be part of the basic transport infrastructure of the country and
of the Central American Common Market (CACH). The economic rate of return
on the construction investment for the Siquirres-Limon section will be
about 17X.
vi.       The project also makes provision for a feasibility study of
the existing San Jose-Siquirres section of this highway connection, as this
is in need of improvement and will reach capacity shortly after the Siquirres-
Limon section has been built.
vii.      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$15.7
million equivalent. On the basis of the economic life of the Siquirres-
Limon highway and its construction period, appropriate terms are 30 years,
including a 6 year period of grace.






COSTA RICA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Costa Rica has requested a Baiik loan to help
finance (a) the construction of a new highway  egtween Siquirtes and Limon
(57 km) and (b) consulting services to conduct a feasibility study for the
improvement of the San Jose-Siquirres road link.
1.02      A joint Bank/IDA Loan/Credit (Loarn 299-CR/CrediL 10-CR) of US$11.0
million was granted in 1961 to assist in financing the first stage (630 km)
of the National Highway Program (Plan Vial) together with construction and
maintenance equipment. The US Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) provided tech-
nical assistance for the project. Progress on the project lagged behind
schedule and the program was reduced to 513 km; about US$950,000 was even-
tually cancelled from the Credit in December 1967, after the Closing Date
had been postponed twice. At that time about 85% of the reduced program
was completed and the remainder is now being completed gradually by the
Government with its own resources. Delays were due to lack of local cur-
rency funds and to the inability of the local construction industry to
handle efficiently the large number of small contracts involved, interna-
tional contractors having shown little interest. However, the project
served, among other things, to help develop a local road construction in-
dustry, although not yet to the point where it can handle large contracts
such as are envisaged in the proposed project.
1.03      This report is based on a feasibility study prepared by the
Government of Costa Rica, with the assistance of BPR experts, and on the
findings of a Bank appraisal mission in August 1968, consisting of Messrs.
Schaefer (engineer) and Bronfman (economist). The project was re-appraised
in February 1970 by a mission consisting of Messrs. Schaefer (engineer),
de Navacerrada (engineer) and Ahlstrand (economist).
2. BACKGROUND INFORMATION
A.   Geographic and Demographic
2
2.01      Costa Rica, with an area of 51,000 km , is somewhat larger than
Switzerland. Its main cities, and nearly half its population, are in the
elevated and climatically equable Central Valley, where most of the emerg-
ing industrial activity is located and the bulk of the country's coffee is
produced.  The mountainous terrain surrounding the Central Valley has made
communication difficult oetween it and the rest of the country, where, in
a very hot and generally very wet climate, Costa Rica's main crop, bananas,
is grown. These tropical areas have potential for timber and cattle pro-
duction, as yet largely untapped for lack of comaunication.



- 2 -
2.02      The population of Costa Rica in 1969 was about 1.7 million.  The
population growth rate averaged over 3.5% p.a. over the period 1958-1967, but
fell to 3.1% during 1968 and 1969.
2.03      Costa Rica borders with Nicaragua in the north and Panama in the
south. It is a member of the Central American Common Market (CACM) which
also includes Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua. To help
overcome the problems created by small domestic markets, low per capita
incomes and poor communications, the five countries in the early 1960's
ratified a treaty which has progressively freed a substantial proportion
of the trade within the region from tariffs and other restrictions. The
outlines of a transport system to facilitate interregional trade were agreed
upon and there have subsequently been some improvements in international
highway connections in the Common Market area. Following these steps,
commerce among the five countries has increased significantly. The trade
of Costa Rica with other Central American Common Market members, as a per-
centage of its total foreign trade, increased from about 5% of total value
in 1962 to slightly more than 202 in 1969.
2.04      Between 1965 and 1969 CDP grew at about 8% per year in constant
prices or just over 4% per capita. GDP per capita in Costa Rica, which was
estimated at about US$480 in 1969, is the highest and probably the most
evenly distributed per capita income in the CACM area. In 1969, 25% of GDP
originated in agriculture, 25% in manufacturing and construction, and 50%
in transport, trade and other private and Government services. Coffee and
bananas are the main export items; less important are sugar, Cocoa, meat
and textiles.
B.   The Transport Sector
a.   General
2.05      Transport plays an important role in the economy of Costa Rica
because of the heavy reliance on export crops and growing volumes of
imported basic raw materials and manufactured goods. Increase of regional
trade and the need to open up new lands for productive use are becoming more
important. The country, however, has topographical and climatic features
which make the provision of the necessary transport facilities both difficult
and costly.
2.06      Railways primarily serve the traffic needs of the banana and cocoa
plantations, and, in the case of the Atlantic and South Pacific regions, do not
have road competition.  Over the last two decades highways have, however,
become the main form of internal transportation. This is due partly to the
need to open up areas not served by the railways, but largely because high-
way transport is more appropriate for the generally short transport hauls
involved for most traffic and because of the absence of large volumes of
bulk traffic (except bananas) suitable for haulage by rail. In 1968, road
transport carried about 83% of all ton-km generated in the country and about
97% of all passenger-km, and the railways carried about 16% and 2% of ton-km
and passenger-km. The remainder was moved by air transport and coastal ship-



- 3 -
ping. Oil products are carried by a 123 km pipeline from the refinery on the
Atlantic Coast near Limon to the terminal station some 17 km east of San Jose,
the capital.
b.   Highways and Highway Transport
2.07      The present highway network consists of about 1,300 km of paved
roads, 5,100 km of improved roads, and 12,200 km of earth roads usable only
during dry seasons (see Table 1). Between 1962 and 1969 highway construction
was rapid, the all weather system increasirg about 36% ii length over tihat
period.
2.08      Costa Rica had about 57,000 vehicles in 1969, or a ratio of about
30 persons per vehicle. In 1967 Costa Rica had 34 persons per vehicle which
compared with Nicaragua (55), Guatemala (77), El Salvador (74), Honduras
(109), Mexico (33), Brazil (41) and Argentina (13). The vehicle fleet has
been growing rapidly over the last few years - at an average of 13% annually.
One major factor has been the local assembly of vehicles which started about
three years ago. Details of the fleet and growth rates are given in Table 2.
2.09      Traffic volumes are, of course, heaviest in the Central Valley
near the population centers. Ministry of Transportation census figures
indicate that for the country as a whole traffic has been increasing at
the rate of about 8% per year in the last five years.
c.   Railways and Ports
2.10      Apart from a short length of railway close to the Panama border on
the Atlantic coast and operated from Panama, there are three independently
operated railway systems in Costa Rica:
Length (Km Operated)
1.  Ferrocarril Electrico al Pacifico  (FEP)             137
2.  Northern Railway Company (Northern)                  546
3.  Compania Bananera de Costa Rica                      310
Total          993
The main ports, Limon and Puntarenas, have traditionally been operated by the
railroad companies, but in April, 1969, the port of Limon was handed over to
an autonomous Government agency (para. 2.14). A law establishing a National
Port Authority has been drafted and presented to the Assembly, which may re-
sult in Puntarenas port also becoming separated from railroad operations. A
Bank port appraisal mission is studying the organization and administration
of the ports.
Ferrocarril Electrico al Pacifico (FEP)
2.11      The FEP, which connects San Jose and Puntarenas, is the only
electrified railroad in Central America. It is an autonomous Government
agency and a common carrier. Freight traffic on this line increased from
340,000 tons in 1958 to a peak of 401,000 in 1964 but has declined since
then to 350,000 tons in 1969. Passenger traffic in the same period, how-
ever, has increased steadily from 652,000 to 755,000 annually. The average
length of freight haul is about 85 km. The PEP also owns and operates the
port facilities at Puntarenas; trucks do not have access to the pier.



- 4-
The Northern Railway Company
2.12      The Northern Railway Company is foreign owned, but ownership of
the railroad is to pass to the Government in 1989 on the expiry of the
company's concession. The company, operating as a common carrier, has 166
km of main line between San Jose and the Atlantic port of Limon and 380 km
of branch lines in the banana plantation areas. Total freight traffic grew
from 347,000 tons in 1958 to 783,000 tons in 1968, an increase caused almost
exclusively by the rapid expansion of banana exports. The average freight
haul on the line is about 120 km. Passengers carried increased from 784,000
in 1958 to 1,262,000 in 1968, a growth of 60% in the period. The Northern
Railway Company owned and operated the port facilities in Limon until April
1969, when it handed the port over to the Government without asking compen-
sation. The reason for this decision was a stricter interpretation of the
Company's contract by the Government, which could have resulted not only in
a 35-50% reduction of port dues but possibly in a claim against the Company
for retroactive payments to compensate for allegedly excessive rates during
the last 10 years. The port was an important source of revenue, but the
company hopes partly to compensate the loss through profits from the growing
banana traffic.
2.13      Though its franchise is still valid for another 19 years, the
Company has no major investment plans, as there is uncertainty about its
future status. A solution has been discussed whereby the Government, the
banana companies and the Company would divide ownership of the railway.
At present the Company meets the increased banana traffic, which is also
its most profitable business, by modest investments, operational improve-
ments (such as the recent conversion from steam to diesel) and the building
of spur lines into new plantation areas.
2.14      The port of Limon is now operated by an autonomous Government
agency, JAPDEVA. The physical condition of the port is poor and it has
insufficient capacity. To meet imediate needs, a new finger pier is being
constructed and completion is scheduled for the end of 1970. A study for
additional port facilities has recently been completed by a U.S./Costa Rican
consulting firm (TAMS/DYPSA), partially financed from Bank Technical Assis-
tance (para 5.07). The consultants recommend the construction of protected
deepwater facilities at Cieneguita, adjacent to the present port. A Bank
mission appraised this project in March 1970, with a view to proposing a
loan for its early construction.
Compania Bananera de Costa Rica
2.15      This company, a subsidiary of United Fruit (US), operates ex-
tensive banana plantations in the southern Pacific coastal region and its
railroad (which is not a common carrier) is primarily to serve these
plantations.



-5-
d.   Air Transport
2.16      Domestic air transport in Costa Rica plays a useful role in
serving isolated communities and sparsely populated areas. The largest
domestic and international air carrier registered in Costa Rica is "LACSA",
one-third of which is owned by the Government.   In recent years, because
of road development, demand for domestic air transport has leveled off.
As a result LACSA's domestic passenger and freight load factors have
fallen to 51Z and 58% respectively. Internationally, LACSA has performed
much better, almost doubling the number of passenger-miles between 1964 and
1969. El Coco, about 12 km from San Jose, is the country's only interna-
tional airport and is also used for domestic flights.
e.   Coastal and River Shipping
2.17      Coastal shipping operates mainly along the Pacific Coast and
accounts for only about 1% of the total traffic mDved. Inland waterways
are few and present operations insignificant. In 1963, the Government,
restarted an old project for a 112 km long intra-coastal waterway to link
Moin, near Limon, witb.the mouth of the Colorado River (near the Nicaraguan
border) and to develop an area presently without other transportation means.
The project is now about 80% completed and will be finished in 1972. Its
impact in,this rich but presently isolated forest region could be signifi-
cant.
G.   Transport Coordination
2.18      The Ministry of Transport is responsible for the formulation and
implementation of transport policy in the country. Its General Directorate
of Automotive Transport regulates routes and fares for all bus services.
Franchises for new bus lines are open to bids by private operators. Gener-
ally, services are efficient, rates reflect costs and high interest is shown
in establishing new services. Truck services are free of any regulation
of entry, routes or rates, and competition is intensive between the, generally,
small size operators but there is no excess of trucking capacity. A few
large trucking firms operate international services, with increasing special-
ization by type of cargo, but they face competition from other Central Ameri-
can countries. However, vehicle weight control is almost non-existent; as
a result, trucks are frequently overloaded leading to excessive expenditures
on maintenance (para 3.06). The question of highway user charges is discussed
below (para 3.21).
2.19      The FEP and the Northern Railway Company operate in relative free-
dom from competition. This situation is bound to change in the future with
the opportunity that the Siquirres-Limon road will provide for competition
by highway transport. In general, the Government is working towards the
provision of facilities that will improve competition in the transport sector.



-6-
2.20      Although  the technical and economic aspects of individual
projects are usually closely examined, little analysis is done for the
assignment of priorities within the transport sector. A greater effort
will be required by the Government to establish proper priorities. To
achieve this and to ensure the formulation of sound transport policy
the economic staff of the Ministry of Transport should be strengthened.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurance that it will engage a
transport economist within six months of the signing of the loan agreement,
to help the Ministry of Transport formulate long term and annual investment
plans and to ensure that due regard is given to economic priorities. The
Bank will assist the Government in formulating the terms of reference for
the duties of such professional.
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.  Highway Administration
3.01      Costa Rica has a total network of about 18,800 km, of which
about 1,500 km are national, 900 km are regional, and the balance are
feeder roads (Caminos Vecinales). Fifty-two percent of the national and
regional highways, and less than one percent of the feeder roads, are
paved (see Map and Table 1).
3.02      The construction and maintenance of national and regional high-
ways and traffic law enforcement are the responsibility of the Ministry
of Transportation. The Ministry also constructs feeder roads, but their
maintenance is the responsibility of the Municipalities through their
Road Councils. The law, however, provides for possible assistance to
be given by the Ministry for the maintenance of feeder roads. The Ministry
is accordingly maintaining several municipal feeder roads and has also
agreed to maintain 664 km of feeder roads constructed or being constructed
with financing from the IDB (para 3.13 et seq.)
3.03      The Ministry of Transportation exercises its responsibility in
the highway sector through the DGV (General Directorate of Highways) and
the Direccion de la Carretera Interamericana (Directorate of Inter-
American Highway) (Charts I and II). The separate directorate for the In-
ter-American highway was organized because construction of this 665 km high-
way is being financed entirely with US funds (2/3 grant, 1/3 Export-Import
Bank loan), and these funds are being administered independently of the
Government budget. Expenditures on the Inter-American Highway are control-
led by the Controlaria General (General Auditor) of the country, and the
BPR (which maintains a permanent staff in Costa Rica) gives general super-
vision to the project.



- 7 -
3.04      Since 1962 the BPR has also provided technical assistance to the
Ministry of Transportation in connection with the Bank/IDA financed Plan
Vial. This assistance was extended in 1964 to the feeder road program
constructed with financial participation of the IDB. In addition the BPR
recommended steps to reorganize the DGV along modern lines, and in partic-
ular to establish a strong and well equipped maintenance branch (para 3.16).
3.Q5      The organization of DGV has been considerably improved in the last
two years (Chart II). Staff and line functions have been defined, and plan-
ning, which used to be done separately by several divisions, is now the
responsibility of the Planning Department of the Ministry. Highway and
traffic data are presently quite well collected and recorded; however, as
this work is important for the proper planning and management of the high-
way system, the Government confirmed during loan negotiations that it will
continue data collection for these purposes.
3.06      Traffic laws (including vehicle weight and dimensions regulations)
are, for all practical purposes, not enforced. A small group of traffic
police operates under the Gerneral Directorate of Automotive Transport
(Chart I), but the group is not fully trained and is poorly equipped. An
adequate force of highway police should be trained to assure proper law
enforcement on national and regional highways; particular emphasis should
be given to enforcing weight regulations; and permanent weighing stations
should be installed at strategic points on the highway system and operated
on a 24-hour basis (para 2.18). During loan negotiations assurances were
obtained that the above measures will be taken for enforcement of weight
and dimension regulations.
B.   Higlway Engineering
3.07      The Ministry of Transportation is authorized to establish appro-
priate technical standards for highways. Design standards have been re-
peatedly revised during the last few years and now conform with modern
engineering principles.
3.08      During the period 1962 through 1967 shortage of adequate staff
was a major cause of inefficiency in the administration of conatruction
projects. ,Numerous small projects led to overextending still inexperienced
staff. However, this situation has improved in spite of the continuous
increase in road construction. Present contracts for the Inter-American
Highway and the El Coco-San Ramon road are of larger size, making it pos-
sible to use a more compact supervisory organization. The Directorate of
the Inter-Anerican Highway has successfully competed on the private market
for engineers and sub-professionals.  In addition, the BPR gives consider-
able direct technical assistance in the construction of the Inter-American
Highway. DGV uses experienced engineers together with local consulting
firms for the administration and supervision of larger construction works
which presently involve only the El Coco-San Ramon contracts. Younger
engineers are usually assigned to the feeder road program in order to gain
experience.



-8-
3.09      The considerable load of design work during the past years has
obligated DGV to concentrate much of its engineering staff in its design
office. However, design work will soon decrease because practically all
of the larger high priority projects have now been designed, and this
personnel will then be free for allocation to the supervision of construc-
tion work. This, in addition to the fact that DGV can now count on better
experienced personnel than in former years, should make it possible with
the continued technical assistance of the BPR to ensure adequate supervision
of the Siquirres-Limon road construction.
3.10      Maximum dimensions and weights of motor vehicles are based on
the Central American Agreement on Highway Traffic of June 1958, which was
legalized in Costa Rica in September 1963. The regulations specify 8,000 kg
as maximum single axle and 14,500 kg as maximum tandem axle loads. This is
on the low side compared to other countries and a thorough study on the
Central American level should be undertaken with a view to up-dating the
regulations. The Government of Honduras, in connection with Loan 495-HO,
agreed to consult with. other Central American countries regarding revision
of the 1958 Agreement, and during negotiations the Government of Costa Rica
indicated that it would. at an opportune time, press for action on this
matter.
C.  Highway Construction
3.11      The quality of recent construction is generally satisfactory, due
to the efforts of the supervisory staff of the Ministry and its BPR advisors.
The local construction industry, however, is capable of handling only small
contracts, except for one firm which has adequate equipment and staff for
large scale highway works. The large contracts on the Inter-American
Highway and the Coco-San Ramon Highway are exclusively with foreign firms,
but small feeder road works are carried out by local contractors.
3.12      The Ministry carries out some force account work, such as the
recent pilot road between Siquirres and Limon (para 4.02). Demand for
force account construction, however, is decreasing, especially since DGV
itself recognizes that not only new construction, but also reconstruction
and improvements, can be accomplished more economically by contractors.
D.  Highway Maintenance
3.13      Maintenance of the national and regional highway network by the
Ministry is not satisfactory. Furthermore, the Ministry has assumed the
additional responsibility for the maintenance of 664 km included in the
feeder road program, of whicb 272 km have already been constructed (pars 3.02).
3.14      Maintenance expenditures for the 1962-1969 period and planned
expenditures for the 1970-1975 period are shown on Table 4. Budget alloca-
tions for maintenance of national and regional highways have since 1963
averaged about 0 6,150 km/year (US$ equivalent 935 km/year) which should be



adequate under normal conditions. Maintenance costs, however, are high,
due to (a) the use of old equipment resulting in high operating and repair
costs, and (b) the generally poor standards of the roads which were not
designed to support present-day traffic and many of which are in need of
reconstruction. The problem is aggravated by the diversion of maintenance
funds and equipment to other purposes, such as force account construction
of additional roads or maintenance of feeder roads which are the responsi-
bilIty Of the Municipalities.
3.15      Force account construction is to be phased out by the Ministry,
and an appropriate budgetary control system will be set up to prevent diver-
sion of funds and equipment. Special budget allocations will be provided
for work on feeder roads when undertaken by the Ministry (para 3.02). These
measures were discussed and agreed during loan negotiations.
3.16      The BPR advisors reported and made recoimmendations in May 1968
on improvements in maintenance operations, cost accounting and control,
annual maintenance budgets, changes in the field organization including
improvements of shops and offices, and procurement of maintenance and
shop equipment. The report piovided the basis for a US$7.1 million USAID
loan (Loan No. 515-L-020) which was signed on July 31, 1969. This loan
will assist the Government in financing: (1) highway maintenance and
shop equipment; (2) highway load control equipment; (3) trailers and
truck modifications for private truckers, and (4) consultant and train-
ing services. The Government will contribute about US$4.4 million equi-
valent to the total cost of about US$11.5 million.
3.17      The Ministry is in agreement with the BPR recommendations and a
corresponding maintenance plan will be worked out with the assistance of
consultants.  This plan will aim at the establishment of separately identi-
fiable budget allocations sufficient for the maintenance of national and
regional roads and of those feeder roads which are the responsibility of
the DGV. The present budget allocations for normal maintenance during the
period .1970-1974 (Table 4) are already based on the BPR's recommendations
that not less than US$950 equivalent per kilometer per year be provided
for national and regional roads, assuming that new equipment will soon be
available. During negotiations for the proposed Bank loan, the Government
agreed that a maintenance plan and schedule for its implementation will be
presented to the Bank for approval before being made operational.
3.18      The Ministry of Transportation has agreed to keep accurate mainte-
nance cost records and to furnish an annual report of these costs to the
Bank.
E.   highway Financing and Planning
A.   Revenue Sources
3.19      Between 1962 and 1969, central and local government funds financed
about two-thirds, and foreign agencies (Bank, CABEI, IDA, IDB and US Govern-
ment agencies) one-third, of total highway expenditures. For the planned



- 10 -
highway expenditures during 1970-75, a higher proportion (over 60%) is ex-
pected to come from abroad as indicated in Table 5.
3.20      Highway expenditures, comprising road construction and maintenance,
highway administration and interest on foreign loans, doubled between 1962
and 1967, from e 48 to e 102 million. They are expected to reach a peak of
¢ 178 million in 1970 and to decrease thereafter to about ¢ 120 million
in 1975.
3.21      Revenues from the use and ownership of vehicles amounted to C 40.5
million in 1962 and increased to e 76.3 million in 1968 (Table 6). About
45% came from gasoline taxes (diesel oil is exempt), 35% from import duties
on vehicles and parts, 10% from license fees and 10% from taxes on tires,
lubricants and tolls. Table 6 also indicates that on an annual cash basis
Government disbursement on highway construction, maintenance and the ser-
vicing of foreign loans for highway purposes were almost in balance with
the revenues received from the highway sector between 1962 and 1968. This
is not to suggest, however, that road users are paying an amount exactly
equal to the economic costs of the highway system or that the incidence
of taxes borne by particular user groups is appropriate. In order to in-
vestigate these questions further the subject of road user charges in all
Central American countries was studied by the Bank as part of a Honduras
road project (495-HO), and the five Central American governments are now
studying the report.
B.   Highway Planning
3.22      Within the long range program there is a plan for the 1968-1975
period, which includes the completion of the first stage of the Plan Vial
(the first Bank-financed highway program, see para 1.02) and of the follow-
ing 1,005 km of priority roads:
1)   Inter-American Highway
a)   Improvement and paving of sections
Cartago-Paso Canoas and San Ramon-Arizona               402 km
b)   Reconstruction of Section Arizona-Penas Blancas         157 km
2)   El Coco-San Ramon Construction                                43 km
3)   Feeder Roads Construction, IDB financed                      346 km
4)   Siquirres-Limon Construction                                  57 km
Total                 1tO5km
3.23      The investment schedule for the 1970-1975 period is shown in
Table 7, with the sources of financing, and details of actual highway invest-
ments since 1962. The proposed investment program is not overly-ambitious
and is within the executive capacity of the Highway Department.



- 11 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(i) the construction. including paving and bridging, of
about 57 km of trunk highway between Siquirres and
Limon;
(ii)  the construction supervision ftr (i); and
(iii) the feasibility study of a new or improved highway
between San Jose and Siquirres. -
B. The Siguirres-Limon Highway
4.02      There is presently no road connecting San Jose and the Atlantic
port of Limon, the only overland link being the Northern Railroad. A 110
km (partly unpaved) road exists between San Jose and Siquirres, the last
36 km section of which, between Pavones and Siquirres (see Map), was con-
structed with Bank/IDA participation (Loan 299-CR and Credit 10-CR). During
the past 10 months the Government has been constructing a rough pilot track
between Siquirres and Limon. The purpose of this 74 km track is to establish
an emergency connection until the proposed 57 km highway is constructed.
The pilot track, which takes advantage of some existing road sections and
abandoned railway beds, is being constructed very quickly and without
previous design. It cannot be considered an all-weather connection since
large portions will be flooded during rainy seasons, and it is not feasible
to adapt any of the newly constructed track into the final road solution.
As soon as a permanent road link between Siquirres and Limon exists, port-
able bridges should be removed from the pilot track and re-used elsewhere.
Portions of the pilot track would then serve as feeder roads for the perman-
ent trunk road.
4.03      The proposed project consists then of the construction of an all-
weather 57 km road link between Siquirres and Limon; the road would be con-
structed to two lane Class E standards, with a pavement width of 6.70 m and
1.80 m shoulders. The design standards are detailed in Table 3. The pave-
ment structure is designed for stage construction and will consist of a
20-25 cm sub-base, depending on the sub-grade, an 18 cm base, and an ini-
tial double asphalt surface treatment. Another surface treatment or road
mix surface will be needed after seven or eight years of use, and asphaltic
concrete after fifteen years, if the traffic develops as projected.
4.04      The Siquirres-Limon route traverses terrain which is difficult
for road construction. The region is crossed by numerous rivers which run
in a north-easterly direction towards the Caribbean Sea. These rivers,
which originate in the.mountains south of the proposed route, carry large
volumes of water at considerable velocity when entering the plains,, and,
having relatively shailow beds, they often change course.  Inundations are



- 12 -
frequent since it rains 200 to 250 days a year, and the yearly rainfall is
very high (3,000 to 3,500 m). Consequently, the project includes the
construction of 19 bridges with a total,length of about 1,350 m, including
river defense works, and about 150 drainage structures. Bridge and drainage
structures account for 44% of the project cost, of which 38% is for bridges
and 6% for drainage structures.,
4.05      In addition to the large amount of structural works, extensive
embankment construction will be required in the flood plains. Since the
soils found along approximately 40% of the route cannot be used for em-
bankment construction, the cost of the work will be substantial.
4.06      From the viewpoint of location, type of construction and avail-
ability of materials, the route can be divided into the three sections:
Siquirres-Calderon river (24 km), Calderon river-Cedar Creek (16 km) and
Cedar Creek-Limon (17 km).  In the first section the route traverses rolling
to mountainous terrain. Suitable materials for embankment construction
are available along the route which generally follows the foothills.
Numerous drainage structures and ten bridges are needed, including a 100 m
bridge over the Barbilla river and a 200 m bridge over the Pacuare river.
4.07      The Calderon-Cedar Creek section consists of flat lowlands with
especially high rainfalls and inundations lasting up to two days reaching
levels of about half a meter above ground level. The extensive embankment
construction here will require very careful compaction control due to un-
favorable foundation conditions. It is planned to use granular materials
from the rivers for embankments. There will be six bridges within this
section, including the 400 m bridge over the Chirripo river.
4.08      The Cedar Creek-Limon section consists of rolling terrain from
Cedar Creek to Liverpool and more mountainous terrain from there to Limon.
Some construction was done in 1968 on an 8.7 km stretch of the section;
excavation and drainage are completed, and embankments are about 50% completed,
and this work will be finished as part of the project. Embankment construc-
tion for the Cedar Creek-Limon section will be costly due to lack of suit-
able materials along the route and it is planned to haul either granular
materials from river beds or corraline materials for this purpose. The
route will terminate in Limon and the Government confirmed during negotia-
tions that the connecting Santa Rosa street (1.4 km) will be improved during
the construction period of the Siquirres-Limon highway, including widening
of pavement to 6.7 m, and providing concrete curbs and sidewalks. Provision
has been made for an intersection with a future access road to the proposed
new port facilities.
C. Design and Consulting Services
4.09      (a)  Supervision of Construction
The feasibility study for the proposed highway was prepared by the
staff of the Ministry, with the assistance of technical advisors from the
BPR, and detailed engineering has been carried out in the same manner with



- 13 -
the exception of the design of the three largest bridges for which consult-
ant services were secured.  The designs for the bridges over the Pasare and
Barbilla rivers were made by the Costa Rican consultants Espiritu Salas ir
a joint venture with the US firm Capitol Engineering, and for the Chirripo
river bridge by Consultecnica (Costa Rica) and Transportation Consultants,
Inc. (US).
4.10      Detailed engineering is finished, etcept for the last 4.0 kri
section near Limon.  This section is being relocated to provide for an
appropriate access to the new port facilities. Detailed plans for this
stretch will be completed in May 1970, but cost estimates were sufficieetV
accurate at the time of loan negotiations.
4.11      It is desirable that BPR coatinues to provide tecnuical assistance
to the Ministry for the supervision of construction, to be financed from the
proposed loan as was done under Loan 299-CR; BPR has indicated its Wialingneas.
To avoid excessive supervision costs and duplication of personnel, bPRh will
provide only a limited number of key personnel to cooperate closely with
the highway officials in charge of the works. This supervision arrangement
was agreed during negotiations. The cost of supervision also includes the
purchase of additional vehicles and engineering equipment not presently avail-
able within the Ministry.
4.12      (b)  Feasibility Study
As there is a need to improve the existing San Jose-Siquirres
highway, which will have reached its capacity in about 1974, shortly after
the Siquirres-Limon section has been put into operation, a study will be
undertaken under the proposed project into the feasibility of (a) improv-
ing and partially relocating the eXisting road between San Jose and
Siquirres, or (b) constructing a new road between these terminal points,
probably via Guapiles (see Map). The study would take about fourteen months
and be carried out by consultants.
D.  Cost Estimates
4.13      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$22.2 million
equivalent, including contingency allowances and interest and other
charges during construction. A summary of the project costs follows:



- 14 -
of total
Colones (millions)   US$ (millions)  expendi-
Items                Local  For.  Total  Local  For.  Total  ture
1. (a) Construction of Si-
quirres-Limon Highway   27.1  63.1   90.2    4.1   9.5   13.6    62
(b) Quantity contin-
gencies 10%               2.7   6.3    9.0    0.4   1.0    1.4       6
(c) Price contingen-
cies 102                  3.0   7.0   10.0    0.5   1.0    1.5        7
Subtotal Item 1       32.8  76.4  109.2    5.0  11.5   16.5    75
2. Construction supervision
(a) Supervision               8.2   4.6   12.8    1.2   0.7    1.9       8
(b) Vehicles & Equipment        -   1.0    1.0       -   0.2    0.2      1
(c) Contingencies 10%         0.8   0.6    1.4    0.1   0.1    0.2       1
Subtotal Item 2        9.0   6.2   15.2    1.3   1.0    2.3    10
3. Feasibility study for San
Jose-Siquirres       .        1.3   2.7    4.0    0.2   0.4    0.6        3
4. Interest and other charges
during construction             -  18.7   18.7       -   2.8    2.8    12
Totals                43.1 104.0  147.1    6.5  15.7   22.2   100
4.14      The estimate of project cost is considered adequate.  Quantities
were taken from detailed engineering studies and are final, except for the
last 4 km section near Limon (para 4.10). Unit prices were computed by the
engineering staff of the Ministry with due consideration for the unfavorable
climatic conditions of the area. They have been checked against unit prices
of recently awarded contracts on the Inter-American highway and the El Coco-
Ramon highway.  Table 8 shows estimates of construction costs (without con-
tingencies) for the three sub-projects into which the work would be divided
(para 4.21), as well as Government expenditures up to 1968. The latter
expenditures, amounting to 0 5.8 million (US$0.9 million equivalent), cover
the construction work accomplished so far in the section between Cedar Creek
and Liverpool (para 4.08), and would not be financed by the proposed loan.
4.15      A 10% contingency allowance has been added to the construction
cost for quantity increases. This is considered sufficient in view of
the accuracy of the quantity estimates in detailed engineering. The 10%
price contingencies are to cover possible price increases during the 4-year
construction period.



- 15 -
4.16      The foreign exchange component for construction was estimated on
the basis of contract awards to foreign firms, with duty free importation
of equipment and materials required for the execution of the project
(para 4.23). Although there is one local firm which may be capable of
undertaking one contract, it has not been successful in the bidding for
major contracts on the Inter-American highway. The foreign component nas
therefore been assessed in the probability that all contracts would be
awarded to foreign firms; on this basis the foreign exchange coaponent
of construction would be 70%.
4.17      The cost of construction supervision and of the feasibility
study is based on estimates agreed with DGV. The foreign exchange cost
of construction supervision (i.e. for the assistance to be rendered by
BPR, together with some equipment) was estimated jointly by DCV and BPE
and is, adequate.
E.   Disbursement
4.18      The following Bank participation is proposed:
a) 70% of construction costs; and
b) the foreign exchange cost of the BPR advisors for construction
supervision and the consultants for the feasibility study,
as well as of transportation and engineering equipment needed
for supervision.
It is proposed to include provision in the loan for meeting interest and
other charges on the loan during the construction of the project. These
are estimated to amount to US$2.8 million equivalent. In view of the
improvement of the fiscal situation since the August 1968 mission, the
Government should be able to provide the local funds needed to match
financing on the above basis and also to carry out the highway investment
plan discussed in paragraphs 3.22 and 3.23.
4.19      Construction is expected to start at the beginning of the last
quarter of 1970 and be completed towards the end of 1974; on this basis,
the tentative annual breakdown between estimated Government expenditures
and those covered by the Bank loan (excluding interest and other charges
during construction) would be as follows:



- 16 -
Total Expenditures       Local Expenditures      Bank Disbursement
Colon   US$ Equiv.       Colon   US$ Equiv.      US$ Equiv.Million
Million    Million       Million    Million
1970          2.9         0.4           0.9        0.1               0.3
1971         34.5         5.3          11.6        1.8                3.5
1972         40.0         6.1          13.5        2.0               4.1
1973         38.8         5.8          13.0        1.9                3.9
1974         12.2         1.8           4.1        0.7                1.1
Totals      128.4        19.4          43.1        6.5               12.9
Any surplus funds remaining in the loan account on completion of the project
should be cancelled.
4.20      The loan will be to the Government of Costa Rica.  The Ministry
of Transportation (through DGV) will be the implementing agency and will
administer a revolving fund for payments to contractors and consultants.
The Government has agreed to maintain the fund at a level sufficient to cover
one mouth of construction work, in accordance with work schedules to be sub-
mitted regularly to the Bank. The establishment of an initial revolving fund
of 0 2.0 million (US$300,000 equivalent), in a blocked account at a Costa
Rican Bank, is a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
F.    Execution of the Project
4.21      For contracting purposes the project is divided into two road
contracts and one bridge contract as detailed in Table 8. Qualified contrac-
tors will be allowed to submit proposals for the three contracts either
separately or in any combination.
4.22      Contracts for the project works will be let on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's established
procedures. DGV is in the process of preparing prequalification, bidding
and contracting documents. Appropriate price escalation formulae will be
included in the contract documents and the corresponding indices will be
published periodically by the Direccion General de Estadistica y Censos
under the Ministry of Industries. Bidding and contracting documents
were discussed with DGV, and drafts will be submitted to the Bank for
approval.
4.23      The Government permits duty free import by local or foreign
contractors of equipment and material4 required for the construction of
projects carried opt with the participation of financing agencies. After
completion of the project, however, the contractors must either re-export
the equipment or pay the duty on its residual value.
4.24      Practically all of the right-of-way has been acquired.  The cost
was negligible since most of the land was donate4d by the. banana plantation
owners. The Government is now in the process of acquiring the balance of
the right-of-way and it has been agreed that no construction contract shall
be awarded unless such acquisition has been completed.



-O 117 -
5. ECONOMIC EV,%1.,T;ATION
A. Back ound
5.01      Thle proposed 5. km Siquirres-Liaor. road vi.ll 3    p arr of the
basic trunk road system of the Central American Comon N1a r At  -wh Cic   s
intended to facilitata the  srcecess of soial n.; oIl          -.1;zgratio.
of Ce; tral America and s-t3eee its econo%ic s   veloioent.        966 Bauk
Economic Mission, in sssessing pros&pe%.s of dfve       .   i. .entrAl
America, considered "completion of th.: road to J. Lo  tc have high prioritv
in te7ms GEi the develop'nt strategy !. the cont           . incc i. v',uld pro`2.w
the fr.rst 7oad link  .o the Atlantic (now dependent on tail econnections).t
and is particularly important for the Jevelopment of exorts te US and
burnnean markets; it would aeeo, stiuaola>e d?ve2  ¶eM  of the new areas
served by the proposed higusPys qy" 1/  Tl s ju.t  L .rd ab.3tt of ealiaer
studiea carried out by Transpnrtat'ou                lsri Lanta  s S) 2/ and by 37'
2cnscrdium (US). 3/
5.02      The constr iction of tae Siquirres-Limon road, h            is onfly
one part of the planned overall improvement of Ltie transport infrastruc-
ture in thie eastern ?art of Costa Kica. The total. program includes the
construction of new deepwacer port facilitias at Limon and the improvement
of the present road between Saai Jose and Siquirres.
B. Project Area
J.03      Ihe zone of influe-nce of the project includes the area around
the port and city of Limor. and the rural districts of Limon, Matina,
Pacuarito and Siquirres. This region had a very rapid growth at the
beginning of the century due to  "-irtroduction of banana plantations,
and by 1925, Limon ranked as the world's leading banana exporting port.
The area's production declined drastically in the 1930's when the "Panama
disease"l hit Costa Rica, but disease-resistant varieties have since been
introduced and production is rapidly expanding to meet tne demands of US
and European banana exporters who buy on long-term contracts.
1/   "Economic Development and Prospects of Central America" (in eight
volumes), Volume VI, "TRANSPORTATION", June 5, 1967 (Report No. .WH-170a),
page 19.
2/   "Costa Rica:  Port and Railway Study", Transportation Consultants Inc.,
Washington, D.C., Novenber 1964, study financed by UNDP and the Bank as
Executing Agency.
3/   "Central American transportation Study" TSC Consortium, Washington, D.C.,
July 1965, for the Central American Bank of Economic Integration (CABEI).



- 18 -
5.04      The Government is promoting cooperative schemes for agricultural
development in the Atlantic area. One such scheme is "Batan Colony" where
600 families will be settled on 10,500 hectares of public land under a
cooperative arrangement avoiding the uneconomic sub-division of the land to
be-able to apply modern agriculture technology. A project for the integrated
development of this colony, which is on the alignment of the projected high-
way, is partly financed by the Inter-American Development Bank.
5.05      Limon, in addition to serving the needs of its iimediate hinter-
land, is also the country's most important port. Export traffic in 1968
through Limon was about 368,000 tons of which 60% were bananas. Dry cargo
imports were 162,000 tons, largely manufactured and consumer goods. Oil
imports to the refinery located some 6 km north of Limon totalled 258,000
tons, refined products moving from there by pipeline (123 km) to San Jose.
C.  Future Traffic and Transport Capacity
5.06      Planning is now underway to provide additional port capacity
required after about 1975 on the Atlantic Coast, at Limon. The 1964 TCI
study examined the strategy of port development for Costa Rica and recom-
mended that additional port facilities on the Atlantic Coast would be tech-
nically and economically feasible and should be built, and that minor
improvements should be made at Puntarenas on the Pacific Coast.
5.07      These recommendations formed the basis of the terms of reference
for the port study which was completed at the end of 1969 (para 2.14). In
addition to the construction of new port facilities at Cieneguita, south of
Limon, the consultants recomend the construction of a new pier in Puntarenas.
5.08      Since new Atlantic port facilities cannot be in service until about
1974-75, the Government, in view of the growing banana traffic, has begun
construction at Limon of a finger pier which is scheduled for completion in
1970.
5.09      Traffic forecasts for the Atlantic region of Costa Rica indicate
that by 1975 total dry general cargo traffic through Limon is expected to
be about 1.5 million tons rising to 2.0 million tons in 1985 (Table 9).
These traffic projections, prepared by the Ministry of Transportation, are
based on forecasts made by TCI in 1964, TSC in 1966, by Schnitzler and
Associates (a Central American consulting firm) in the same year. The
Government's forecast was revised by the appraisal mission and checked against
TAMS/DYPSA's estimates.
5.10      On the basis of these figures, the present port facilities at
Limon (including the finger pier now being built) and the Northern Rail-
road will both be able to handle the traffic forecast up to about 1975,
although with considerable congestion in thte port in later years.
5.11      The Siquirres-Limon highway is scheduled for opening to traffic
by 1975, thus post-1975 inland traffic demands will be met. The proposed
port extensions which are being appraised by the Bank should be completed at



- 19 -
about the same time and will provide the Aiditional capacity needed.
D.  Ecoaomic Analysis of Project Road
5.12      As a first step in the economic evaluation, a comtparison was made
between the east (Atlantic) and west (Pacific) alternative routes for excess
traffic after 1975. Annex 1 contains the methodology for this and subsequent
analysis. It shows that the additional investmenits required for the Atlantic
solution would be economically justified including as benefits only savings
in overall transport costs. These investments would include the new port
facilities at Limon and the construction or improvement of the San Jose-
Siquirres-Limon highway. In addition they would pro6uce important development
effeats on the eastern region of Costa Rica, but these benefits have not been
quantified.
5.13      After determining the advantages of the Atlantic route, the next
step involved the determination of the least cost transport solution for
the corridor between San Jose and Li,'on. Feasible alternatives (i.e. inland
waterways, rail, road, air and combinations of these) were evaluated and
the construction of a new road connection was selected as the most economic.
Investment on the whole road (construction now of Siquirres-Limon and in
1975 of San Jose-Siguirres) provides a transport system which minimizes
total economic cost to satisfy the projected transport demand. Total
economic cost includes investment, maintenance and vehicle operating cost.
5.14      One of the alternatives for meeting traffic demand in this
corridor would involve a considerable expansion in the capacity of the
Northern Railway. Hlowever, it is a narrow gauge railway, completed in 1890.
Between Siquirres and San Jose there is a 90 km section where the railway
climbs 1,500 m. Frequent slides occur on this section where the railway
passes close to the Reventazon river; thus, in the fall of 1969 the railway
was closed for six weeks because of slides, and the traffic had to use the
present road to Siquirres and then the railway from Siquirres to Limon.
Major improvement of the railway section between Siquirres and San Jose
would be expensive and difficult to justify. The railway management has also
indicated that it is not willing to make major investment for expanding the
capacity of the system.
5.15      Considering only the construction of the Siquirres-Limon highway
section and assuming that the San Jose-Siquirres section remains as at
present, the investment in the project road yields an economic rate of
return of 17Z, when discounted over.a useful life of 25 years. The sensi-
tivity analysis shows a range between 13% and 19% for the economic return
(Annex 1). The benefits used in the above analysis were the measurable
savings in inland transport costs; there are other benefits which are not
included in these calculations:
- considerable time savings for passengers and goods;



- 20 -
- reduction in rail freight rates expected as a result of
highway competition; and
- reduction in losses of perishable products.
5.16      The possibility of using at least some sections of the pilot
track (para 4.02) as a temporary solution, thus poptponing some of the in-
vestment needed for the project road, was investigated. Since the pilot
track is being constructed quickly and without engineering, it passes through
terrain which is very diffic4l±tfor the construction of an all-weather road.
Consequently, the cost of improving such sections, even to minimum standards,
would be about the same as the cost of the corresponding sections of the
properly engineered project road.
5.17      The proposed project is, therefore, economically justified.  The
construction of the project,road could also have beneficial effects on the
operations of the Northern Railroad, particularly since it will allow the
railway to reduce passenger rail traffic substantially, and divest itself
of less-than-carload freight traffic which would be more suited to trucking
operations. This will allow the railroad to concentrate on carrying bananas.
E. Feasibility Study
5.18      A feasibility study to be undertaken by consultants, at a total
cost of US$600,000 equivalent, to determine the feasibility of improving
the highway connection between San Jose and Siquirres is included in the
proposed project. It is estimated that the present road between those
points will be congested in 1975 when the proposed highway Siquirres-
Limon is open to traffic. The analysis indicated in para 5.13 above
shows there is sufficient economic basis to warrant proceeding with this
study.
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following principal points:
(i) the engagement of an economist for transport planning
(para 2.20);
(ii)  the enforcement of traffic laws, including vehicle
weights and dimensions regulations (paras 2.18 and 3.06);
(iii) the presentation for Bank approval of a highway maintenance
plan (para 3.17);
(iv)  the improvement of the Santa Rosa street in Limon (para 4.08);
and
(v) the operation of the project revolving fund (para 4.20).



- 21 -
6.02      The effectiveness of the loan will be contingent upon the
Government establishing an initial revolving fund of US$300,000 equivalent
in a blocked account at a Costa Rican Bank (para 4.20).
6.03      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$15.7
million equivalent.. On the basis of the construction period and the econo-
mic life of the investment, appropriate terms would be 30 years including
a 6 year period of grace.
"Jie    I9 1l(45 1t7 t






ANNEX 1
METHODOLOGY FOR ECONORMIC ANALYSIS
i.  Atlantic vs. Pacific
The following analysis, based on incremental cost figures,
compares the alternatives of moving the excess traffic via the Atlantic
or via the Pacific Coast:
(a)  According to the feasibility study which a4 British-
French consulting grc'ip has recently completed on
Nicaraguan ports under Bark financing, shipping rate
differentials between the port of Liwn on the Atlantic
Coast and Corinto on the Pacific Coant of Nfaragua
averaged from US$2 to US25 per ton according to the
type of cargo; for the foreign traffic mix of Costa
Rica the average rate diffreTetial aov   d be about
US$9.50. The rates stated for Corinto can be used
as well for Puntarenas since the rates quoted by the
shipping companies apply usually to all Pacific ports
in Central America. The net additional cost for moving
the excess traffic between 1975-1995 via Puntarenas
and the Panama Canal is US$138.4 million after taking
into account the added inland transport costs caused
by Limon being 50 km further from San Jose than Punta-
renas. (The net additional transport cost per ton is
US$7.65.)
(b) Engineering estimates indicate that moving the traffic
involved via the Pacific Coast would require the same
amount of port investment at Puntarenas as at Limon
and that investment of about US$10 million would be
needed to improve the San Jose-Puntarenas highway.
(c) As against these added costs of US$148.4 million for
moving traffic via Puntarenas, the cost of the invest-
ment required to improve the highway connection over
the whole route San Jose-Limon is about US$40 million.
(d) This is equivalent to an incremental rate of return
of 17% (see Table 1) for the investmerts required to
move the traffic through the Atlantic Coast, and
demonstrates the economic advantage, in purely trans-
port terms, of developing a transport route via the
Atlantic. There would also be a devctlopment stimulus
in an area otherwise largely divorced from the rest
of the Costa Rican economy.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
ii. Transport Alternatives in the San Jose-Limon Corridor
The preceding analysis demonstrates the need to expand port
capacity on the Atlantic Coast and shows that this will require the improve-
ment.of transport facilities in the San Jose-Limon corridor'. To determine,
therefore, which particular improvement is the most economical, an analysis
was made by the Government on the following possible alternatives:
Alternative A: The Northern Railroad would make good
deferred maintenance and would work to its full capacity
of about 1.5 million tons per year after 1975. Traffic
over that figure would move by river between Limon and
Siquirres and then by the existing Siquirres-San Jose
road. Passenger traffic would move by rail or air.
Alternative B: A new road would be built in stages
between San Jose and Limon. In Stage I, the project
section Siquirres-Limon would be built first, with
constructioU starting in 1970 at a total cost of e 113.0
million and being open to traffic over its full length
in 1975. The maintenance and upgrading program for that
road assumes:
(a) expenditures of e 6,285 equivalent a year per
km for routine maintenance, including seal
coating,
(b) expenditures totalling about ¢ 1.7 million
equivalent for double surface treatment in
1982,
(c)  expenditures totalling ¢ 7.9 million equivalent
for bituminous concrete carpet in 1988.
In Stage II the section of the San Jose-Siquirres road,
via Guapiles, would be built between 1974 and 1977 at
a total cost of about 0 144.6 million and with a main-
tenance and improvement program similar to the one
described above..
To forecast the mode of transport by which traffic could be
expected to move, the demand was divided in four.main categries: export,
import, and local traffic of goods and passengers. The forecasts took
into account existing and planned production potentials in the Costa Rican
economy for the different crops and products; the trends of demand in
foreign markets, especially US and Central Europe for Costa Rican products;
the role of import substitution in Costa Rica and in the Central American
Common Market generally for goods not likely to be produced in that area;
and the demand elasticities associated with income and population growth.
Separate projections were made for eight export commodity groups and for
seve4 import groups. Demand for local traffic of goods and passengers
was not subdivided. Table 2 shows the complete traffic projections.



ANNEX I
Page 3
Traffic thus forecast was assumed to select the appropriate mode
according to location, cost, time or speed and other characteristics of
service, and the flow by mode for each alternative wes arrived at and
total operating costs computed (for highway vehicle operating costs, see
Table 10).  By adding investmnent and maintenance costs, the total econoeic
cost of transportation for each alternative was obtained.  Savings in
inventory costs due to faster and more dependable trar.Fpot:,t Aon service
were not considered for lack of data. The analysis show that alternative
B, that is, building a comvilete tnew road link betwieenx Sani Jose and Limon
provides the least cost transport solution in tv, g9ziiori. If alternative
A is considered.ao  t4e.situtiqn 'twiti3outC  tile project (aad excluding any
generated traffic) the investment on the whole San Jo6e-Limon road
(including generated traffic), assuming. a useful economic life of 25
years, yields an economic rate of return of about 13%e
iii. The Proj___Road (Siquirres-Li mcon)
A similar analysis was carried out for the road section Siquirres-
Limon itseef, to establish its economic justification. That is, alternative
A was as given above but alternative B was mdified and the assumption made
that the road section San Jose-Siquirres remained as at present.  For
analytical purposes this means lower total road construction and mainitenance
costs because of the shorter distance involved, while on the benefit side
unit savings in transport costs are also reduced and generated traffic is
smaller. The investment in the project road yields an economic rate of re-
turn of 17%, when discounted over a useful economic life of 25 years (Table
3).  The sensitivity analysis shows a range between 13% and 19% for the eco-
nomic return (Table 4). Table 2 of this annex shows the total traffic pro-
jected for the Atlantic corridor and the share of the road in moving freight
and passengers.
In 1975 after the road is open, highway transport is expected to
move 345,000 tons of goods and over half million passengers. In 1980
similar figures would increase up to about 700,000 and 1.1 million and
to 1.4 and 1.7 million in 1990. General import and export cargo, paper
and paper products, bananas, coffee, fertilizers and local traffic would
be the most important products to be nauled by highway transport.






COSTA RICA - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ATLANTIC VS. PACIFIC - COKPARISON OF INCRSMENTAL CO6TS AND BENEFITS
(AU rigures in million us})
Net Additional
Transportation Cost
Tons     via Panama Canal and  San Jose-Limon  San Jose-Puntarenas  Net Atlantic  Present Value 2/   Discount
Year  ('000)          Puntarenas 1/          Road                Road           Investment   Benefits  Costs       Factor
1970    -                                     0.14                                -           0.4        0°34         .855
1971    -                                     1 4.3             0°5                3.8           -        2.78        .731
1972    -                 -                   5.3                3.5               1.8           -        1.12        .624
1973    -                 -                   5.3                3.0               2.3           -        1.23        .534
1974     -                                    1.8                2.5              -0.7           -       -0.32        .456
1975    -                                     3.6                0.5               3.1           -        1.21        .390
1976    527              4.o                  7.2                                  7.2          1.33      2.40        .333
1977    553              4.2                  7.2                                  7.2          1.20      2.05        .285
1978    586              4.5                  3.5                                  3.5          1.09      0.85        .243
1979    615              4.7                                                                    0.98       -          .208
1980    651              5.0                                                                    0.89       -          .178
1981    675              5.2                                                                    0.79       -          .152
1982    715              5.5                                                                    0.72       -          .130
1983    758              5.8                                                                    0.64       -          .111
1984    803              6.1                                                                    0.58       -          .095
1985    851              6.5                                                                    0.53       -          .081
1986    889              6.8                                                                    0.47       -          .069
1987    942              7.2                                                                    0.42       -          .059
1988    998              7.6                                                                    0.39       -          .051
1989  1,058              8.1                                                                    0.35       -          .043
1990  1,121              8.6                                                                    0.32       -          .037
1991  1,199              9.2                                                                    0.29       -          .032
1992  1,234              9.4                                                                    0.25       _          .027
1993  1,271              9.7                                                                    0.22       _          .023
1994  1,309             10.0                                                                    0.19       -          .020
1995  1,346             10.3                                                     -10.0 31       0.28    -0.17         .017
Total        11.82    11.119
February, 1970
1/ US$7.65 per ton.
T/ Discount rate 17%.
3/ Salvage value of bridges and structures.



COSTA RICA - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TOTAL DEMAND FOR TRANSPORT IN THE SAN JOSE-LIMON CORRImR
AND TRAFFIC TO BE MOVED ON THE ROAD
('000 tons)
E X P O R T S                                        I M P O R T S
Other     Total    General        Paper &                       Other       Total         Local           TOTAL TRAFFIC
Year      Coffee   Banana   Exports   Exports    Cargo   Paper Products   Fertilizers   Imports   Imports   Traffic Goods   FREIGHT   PASSENGERS
-                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~('000)
1958 T     42         4        20        65         -              7                            141        148 1          38           252        838
H     -         -         _         -          -             _                _             _          _             _             _          _
1962 T     47        65        50       163         -            17                 -           196        213            82           459        922
H     -         -         -         -          -             _                 _            _         _              _             _          _
1966 T     41       136        74        251        67            22               26            22        137            82           470        931
H     -         -         -         -          -             -                 _            _          _             _             _          _
1968 T     49       230        89        368        89           36                37            -         162            95           625        995
H     -         -         -         -          -             _                 _            _          _             _             _          _
1970 T     54       590        98        742       124            Bo               37            17        258           105         1,106      1,008
H     -         -         -         -          -             -                 -            _          _             _             _          _
1975 T     63       975       137     1,175        199          107                52            23        381           122         1,679      1,102
H     48        50       57        155        111           31                3              5       150             40           345        551
1980 T     83       985       164     1,232        260           120               76            31        488           148         1,868      1,265
H     76       176        89       342        199           56               10             10       276             98           717      1,151
1985 T    111       995       209     1,315        336           160              112            42        651           173         2,139      1,502
H    101       310      119        530        267          103               35             16       422            136         1,087      1,427
1990 T    147    1,005        274     1,426        450           215              165            56        886           209         2,521      1,784
H    134       352       158       644        372          165               58             23       619            176         1,439      1,695
1995 T    194    1,015        367     1,577        602           288              243            76      1,209           248         3,033      2,118
H    175       357       207       739        511          230               85             31       858            218         1,816      2,013
T:  Total demand                                                                                  1958-1968:  Actual data
1970-1995:  Projections (See para 5.09)
H:  To be carried by highway transport
1/                                                                                                SOURCE: Ministry of Transportation, Costa Rica
-   Including crude oil
February 1970



COSTA RICk:  SVDf'lD TIIRGILY PROJEC             ANNU I
-                                ~~~~~~~~~~Table 3
SIQUIRRES-LIM1 HIHWAY - OSTS A"    WITS
(In millions of colomes)
Construction cost      Transportatim  cost in            Savings In transporta-
and increase in       San Jose - Lbmn Corridor           tion coat through the
maintenance cost  Without Siquirres- With Siquirres-  construction of
with Siquirres-    Limwu highway        Limon highway    Siquirres-Limon high-
Year Limon highway        (i.e. Alt A)                          wy.
1970        2.7                                                          _
1971       29.5                 _
1972       34.6                 -
1973       35.2                 -
197        11.0                 -
1975        0.2               55.9                42.3                  13.6
1976        0.2               59.4                42.0                  17.4
1977        0.2                63.8               41.9                  21.9
1978        0.2               69.0                42.2                  26.8
1979        0.2                69.1               40.8                  28.3
1980        0.2               68.7                41.8                  26.9
1981        0.2                71.1              142.9                  28,1
1982       -4.8'               73.5               44.1                  29.4
1983        1.6                76.2               45.3                  30.9
1984        0.2                79.4               46.6                  32.8
1985        0.2                82.6               48.2                  34.4
1986        0.2                85.5               50.1                  35.4
1987        0.2                89.8               51.9                  37.9
1988        0.2               93.5                53.9                  39.6
1989        7.9                97.5               56.o                   11.5
1990        0.2              101.6                58.2                  43.4
1991        0.2              105.9                60.6                  45.3
1992        0.2               110.6               63.1                  47.5
1993        0.2              115.5                65.7                  49.8
1994        0.2              120.4                68.4                  52.0
1995        0.2              125.7                71.3                  54.4
1996        0.2              131.4                74.4                  57.0
1997        0.2              137.3                77.7                  59.6
1998        0.2             1143.6                81.1                  62,5
1999      -18.3L2            150.4                84.7                  65.7
With a discount factor of 17.21% the sum of costs and benefits are equal, thus the
internal rate of return of the proposed project road Siquirres-Limcn is 17%.
/1 An investment in river facilities in this year for Alt. A gives the negative
value.
/2 Salvage value of bridges and structures.
February 1970



ANNEX 1
Table 4
COSTA RICA - SECOND HIGHWAU PROJECT
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
SIQUIRRES - LIMON HIGHWAY
Rate of Return
1.   Best estimate                                               17.21
2.  Banana traffic decreased 30%                                 14.40
3.   All goods traffic decreased 20%                             15.40
4.  Passenger traffic decreased 20%                               16.13
5.  All traffic decreased 25%                                    14.01
6.  Unit costs decreased 10%                                     15.78
7.   Unit costs increased 10%                                    18.39
8.  No. 6 and No. 2                                              13.60
9.  No. 6 and No. 3                                              14.42
10. No. 6 and No. 4                                              14.78
11.  No. 6 and No. 5                                              13.08
12. No. 7 and No. 2                                              15.20
13.  No. 7 and No. 3                                             16.79
14. No. 7 and No. 4                                              17.42
15.  No. 7 and No. 5                                             14.74
16.  Const. costs and salvage value up by 10%                     15.9
17. Unit costs for road decreased by 10%                         18.4
(Alternative II)
Range: Minimum 13.1
Maximum 18..4
March 1970



COSTA RICA - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Classification of Highways
Length According to Type and Jurisdiction
Year        1962       1963        1964       1965         1966        1967         1968         1969
National Highways
Paved   -/                611         615        625         643         656          678         752          784
Improved 2                550         618        692         708         751          802         723          691
Totals       1,161      1.233       1,317      1.351        1,407       1,480        1475         1.475
Regional Highwas
Paved    l/               354         371        371         381         386          391         426          426
Improved 2                427         439        457         457         460          465         434          434
Totals         781        810         828        838          846         856          860          860
Feeder Roads
Paved    i/                95         103        124         124         124          121         121          123
Improved 2              1,512       2,118      3,173      3,297        3,350        3,425       3,675        4,057
Earth   3              10,274      10,142     10,618     12,000       11,948       12,178      12,290       12,280
Totals      11881      12,363      13,915     15,421       15,422      15,724       16,086       16,460
Totals (All systems)
Paved   -/              1,060       1,089      1,120       1,148       1,166        1,190        1,299       1,333
Improved 2/             2,489       3,175      4,322       4,462       4,561        4,692       4,832        5,182
Earth    3             10,274      10,142     10          12,000      11,948       12,178      12,290       12,280
GRAND TOTAIS           13,823      14,406     1606        1 076                    18,060       18,.421     18,795
1/ Concrete or asphalt pavements,
2/ Surfaced with gravel or selected materials.
3/ Trafficable only during dry season.
Source: Ministry of Transportation, Planning Department, Costa Rica
February 1970



TABLE 2
COSTA RICA - SECCNID HIMHWAY PROJECT
VEHICIE FLET
Passenger         Trucks
Cars       (Light & Heavy)    Buses             Total
1958               12,758           7,175           1,127            21,060
1959               14,258           7,741           1,217            23,216
1960               15,952           8,397           1,289            25,638
1961               17,160           7,924           1,339            26,423
1962               17,736           7,823           1,371            26,930
1963               l8,630           8,195           1,505            28,330
1964               20,328           8,932           1,540            30,800
1965               22,733          10,195           1,952            34,880
1966               27,154          12,287           2,058            41,4999
1967 11            29,772          13,678           2,235            45,665
1968               32,660          15,504           2,400            50,564
1969               36,o65          18,009           2,612            56,686
Average rate
of growth
1958-69:          9.9%            8.7%             8.0%            9.4%
Average rate
of growth
1964-69:         12.2%           15.0%            11.0%           13.0%
/ Provisional
Source: Ministry of Transportation, Costa Rica
February 1970



TAL 3
COSTA RIA
SECCHD HgXOWAI PROJECT
DESIN STANDARDS FOR PROJECT ROAD
Flat    RolLing    Ioutainous
Design Speed (km/)                        96         88          6
Minim  Horizontal Radius (m)             350        290          130
Sximum Grade (%)                           4          6           7
Minimum Stopping Sight Distance (m))                130          85
Ninimum Passing Sight Distance (m)       650        600          450
Tldth of Pavement (m)                      6.7        6.7          6.7
Width of Shoulder (m)                      1.8        1.8         1.5
Width of Bridges (m)                       8.5        8.5         8.5
Bridge Loading                         H20-516    H20-S16     H20-S16
Right of iry (m)                          24         24           24
lrote:  Design standards correspond to Costa Rica Class -El Highway.
Source: I-lnistry of Transportation, Direccion General de Vialidad, Costa Rica
January 1969



COSTA RICA - SECOND HIGRWAY PROJECT
HIGHWAY MAINTEN,tNCE EXPENDITURES
1962 - 1915
NATIONAL AND REGIONAL HIG8LWAYS                                                                      FEEDE8 ROADS 4/
___ ___ ___ __  ~ an itur o __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _                                                 Cooperative    Plan
Contrihotion                        ~~~~~~OTHER
Length                                                                       Length                                Contbtioo            Thniiplities and Aiverage                         EXPENDITUtRE        TOUTAL
YEARt                                Roadway       Bridges        Total        Average per Ka                  IDB Financed Rqada     Ministry of Tran-p.       Road Councils           Totsl       per Ke                2/
Km          0 million     0 million     0 million             0              I  4/        0 million                 0 million             0 million           0                          eillion 0  0 million  0millin
{       1962                 1,942             3.0           0.4           3.4             1,750           2,500             ---                     1.5                    4.0                  5.5        2,200          0.5              9.4
1963                  2,043           11.8           0.9          12.7             6,250           2,500             ---                     1.5                    3.0                 4.5         1,800          4.2            21.4
1964                  2,145           11.4           0.7          12.1             5,650           2,900             ---                     1.2                    3.8                  5.0        1,750          3.9             21.0
1965                 2,189            13.1           1.0          15.l             6,450           3,000             ---                     0.7                    4.0                  4.7        1,600          4.1             22.9
2 1966                       2,253           13.2           1.2          14.4             6,400            3,000             ---                     1.7                    3.9                 5.6        1,900           4.0            24.0
1967                 2,336            11.7           0.8          12.5             5,350           3,000             ___                     0.9                    4.0                 4.9         1,650          4.0            21.4
1966                 1,933 2/         12.6           0.8          13.4             6,950           3,317              0.9                    1.9                    2.3                  5.1        1,550          5.1             23.6
1    969                  2,o68 3/        11.8           0.8          12.6             6,ioo           3,317              1.6                    2.3                    1.9                  s.e        1,750          5.9             24.3
1970                  2,138 3         12.6           1.2          13.8             6,4So           3,366              1.8                    2.0                    2.1                  5.9        1,75D          5.7             25.4
1971                  2,241 3         13.8           1.2          15.0             6,700           3,316              2.6                    2.4                    2.3                  6.7        1,960          6.9             27.7
1972                  2,379          14.9            1.2          i6.1             6,750           3,507              2.5                    2.5                    2.5                  7.5        2,150          6.o             29.6
1    1973                   2,379           15.3           1.5          16.8             7,050           3,684              3.4                    2.5                    2.8                  8.7        2,350          6.1             31.6
Sl  197L                  2,379           16.1           1.5          17.6             7,400           3,868              4.8                    2.6                     3.0                10.4        2,700          6.1             34.1
_   1975                  2,439           17.4           1.6          19.0C            7,800           4,o6o               6.9                    2.7                    3.2                12.8        3,150           6.2           '38. 0
- Before 1968 theee roads ware maintai.ed with Cooperative Plan furds.
Rapenditures for shops, worehousee, crushers and aephalt plants.
Sections of the Inter-american Highway now under -onstru-tion are not included.                                                                                                                                                                    -
- Only regularly maintained feeder roads are -onsidered.
Sorcee  Ministry of T7ranportation, Di-eocion General do Vialidad, Costa Rioa
FPbruary 1970



COSTA RICA - SECOND EIGHWAY PROJECT
HIGHilAY REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES 1962-1975
(in million of Colones)
R E V E N U E S                                                                                 E X P E N D I T U R E S
Year   Government    Other       BANK/   CABEI   IDB    Exim    US    USAID    Private    MJOC   TOTAL          Construction    Maintenance    Administration    Interest on      Purchase of       TOTAL
Funds      External     IDA                     Bank    BPR             Foreign     1/                                                                Foreign Loans Maint. Equipsent
Sources                                                       Banks      -
1962      25.0          -          -        -       -      9.6    9.0      -          -      4.3      47.9          29.9           9.4              4.7               3.9             -              47.9
1963      36.8          -        12.4       -       -      7.9    2.3      -         -       4.8      64.2          26.2          21.4              S.0               3.6            9.1            64.2
1964      43.8          -        11.0       -       -      7.0    0.1     3.3        -       5.5    70.7            33-3          21.0              6.1               4.5            5.8             70.7
1965      47.2          -        13.4       -      5.3    0.9    0.1      5.4       0.1       5.8    78.2           38.4          22.9              6.8               4.5            5.6             78.2
1966      56.4          -        11.1       -      6.4     0.2    0.3    3.3        0.4      5.7      83.8          46.8          24.0               7.1              5.4            0.5             83.8
o   1967      59.0          -        19.3        -     6.5      2.2    4.5     1.9       3.1      5.8    102.3          67.2          21.4               5.8              5.3             2.6           102.3
1968     53.1           -          -       11.3   3.0      6.5  12.7       -        1.5      3.8      91.9          57.1          23.6              6.8               4.4             -              91.9
1969     51.6           -          -       22.1   6.8   11.7   22.7        -         -       3.2    118.1           80.9          24.3              6.9               6.0             -            118.1
1970      53.6          -         2.0      43.4  11.4   16.4   31.7   15.9            -      3.6    178.0          128.2          25.4               2.0              6.5           15.9            178.0
1971      71.3          -        22.9      19.9  15.5   11.3   21.8       0.9         -       3.8   167.4          130.8          27.7               2.0              6.o            0.9            167.4
1972      76.8          -        26.5        -   16.8      -       -     16.5         -       4.1   140.7           87.1          29.6               2.0              5.5           16.5            140.7
1973      73.7        33.5       25.8        -    4.8      -       -      o.6         -      4.4    142.8          103.1          31.6               2.0              5.5            o.6            142.8
1974      65.9        50.0        8.1        -      _-         -       -              -       4.6   128.6           86.7          34.1               2.1              5.7             -             128.6
1975      65.6        50.0         -         -      -      -       -                  -       4.8    120.4          74.5          38.o               2.1              5.8              _            120.4
V/  Mhnicipalities and Local Road Councils
Source: Ministy of Transportation, Costa Rica
February 1970



TABLE .
COSTA RICA - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
HIHWiAY INCOI!E AID EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT: Current and Capital
(in Million of colones)
INCOME                       1962    1963   1964    1965    1966    1967    1968
a) Road User Charges
Import duties on vehicles 14.6   20.7    22.2    18.3    19.8    16.1    25.6
License fees               4.7    5.4       5,9     5.9    7.0     10.0     9.5
Fuel tax                   8.5    20.6    30.3    24.6   31.3   25.8    33.9
Taxes on tires             2.2     2.8      2.6     2.7     3.3     4.0      4.2
Taxes on lubricants         .5       .4     .5       .6      .5    1.3      0.7
Tolls                       -       -        -       .9     1.9     2.1     2.4
Sub-total              40.5    49.9   61.5    53.0    63.8    59.3    76.3
b) Foreign loans              9.6    20.3    21.3    25.1    21.4    33.0    22.3
c) Foreign grants             9.0     2.3       .1      .1      .3    4.j    12.7
Total                  59.1    72.5    82.9    78.2    85.5   96.8   111.3
EXPENDITURES
a) Paid with Public Funds
Central Government     32.9    39.7    46.8   63.3    65.9    67.7    60.5
Municipalities          h.3     4.8     5.5      5.8       7     5.-8   -.-8
37.2   44.5   52.3   69.1    71.6   73.5   64.3
b) Paid with Foreign Funds   18.6    22.6    21.4        2    21.7    375       5.0
55.8    67.1    73.7    94.3   93.3   11.0    99.3
* Includes amortization and interest of foreign loans.
Source:  Ministry of Transportation, Costa Rica.
February 1970



9~~~~~~~~- H.                                                                - C'.    ° 2w        °>°b1 
o   .      0 1  
'   '0 o i   m w  'o o0 '0          U''0         H             '0 '0                  w
, a           F. o.  o  ° °E  
'441 -   0        I I , I I s I t . . . . i_m< 
~~ o                                                     '0  U'  0'  U'o_   
a~~~~ ~  ~ '4                                                                                 a
0~9   C4N400i                                                                                                 i
0I                                'O                                                        4' 13 
0~~~~~~ H   '0  F. I'   0   0I H   U'  -
U'  0'.    U' 3-'  0'.    U
l_   O   \/1  .0   0                              Vt  0e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I I I I * ~'  H   Ux  . 4                            '' ,"  O0    0S
H   H   H                 O w s > b              
F ~ ~ ~ '- .' .' ,      o  F             0>  0         HS  N ' ;O        0 
H1    1      U'       "3        F '0 .0   H       H f   ' I              f t
'0~~ ~ '0I              0U   H   F4  '0  I'  I'  I'                  NE 
'0  '0  Ht H 3-         '   U   '0      'o   i '   '0  '0
U'  0'H "                      '             ' H    0'   U    0'



COSTA RICA - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SIQUIRRES-LIMON HIGHWAY
Estimate of Construction Cost
(Millions)
Sub-Project A              Sub-Project B              Sub-Project C                        Total Project-/
Limon-Chirripo River       Chirripo-Siquirres         Bridges over Chirripo,                         To be
TYPE OF WORK                   (28.8 lkm)                (27.6 km)            Pacuare & Barbilla Rivers      Constructed    Constructed          TOTAL
2/  To be                3/                         (790 m)
Constructed  Constructed     To be Constructed           To be Constructed                 US$       C    US$               s$
______  0                                       ¢ 0  0  0   Equiv.  0   Equiv.   ¢  Equiv.
Earthwork                  5.0         19.2                  16.2                         -                  5.0   0.7      35.4   5.3        40.4  6.1
Pavement                    -            7.5                  7.3                                              -     -      15.0   2.3        15.0  2.3
Drainage Structures        0.8           1.8                  3.6                         _                  0.8   0.2       6.1   0.9         6.9  1.0
Bridges                     -            6.o                  5.2                       23.4                   -     -      33.7   5.1        33.7  5.1
TOTAL       5.8         34.5                  32.3                      23.4                  5.8   0.9     90.2  13.6        96.o 14.5
1 Amounts do not include contingencies
2/ Chirripo Bridge is not included
Barbilla ani Pacuare Bridges are not included
March 1970



TABLE 9
COSTA RICA. - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS - ATLANTIC CQAST CORRIDOR
(Tons '000)
1970     1975     1980     1985      1990
Banana Exports                    590       975      985      995    1,005
Inputs to Banana
Plantations                      40        60       60       65        70
Subtotal      630    1,035    1,045    1,060    1,075
Other Imports                      220      325      430      580       815
Other Exports                      150      200      245      320       420
Subtotal      370      525      675       900    1,235
TOTAL Port Traffic                  1,560    1,720    1,960    2,310
Local Traffic
(San Jose/Limon Corridor)       105       120      150      175      210
TOTAL                     1,105    1,680    1,870    2,135    2,520
Source: Ministry of Transportation, Costa Rica
February, 1970



TADIS 10
COSTA RICA - SECOND HIGIWAY PROJECT
VEHICLE OPERATING COST ON PAVED ROAX
(Without Taxes)
TYPE OF TlRAIN                             TRUCKS             BUS !-/AU1TCMBIIZ
Light    Yedium    Heavy
A. MDUNTAINOUS:
Average Operating Speed (km/hr)     40       32        24       32      48
1. US cents per vehicle/km             12.7    13.7       28.7    16.5      2.9
2. US cents per ton/km or passenger/km:
Payload factor 10%         16.9      3.1       2.4      0.4     o.6
ti       it  75%          23.6      4.1       3.2      0.6     0.8
,         ,i  60%         28.2      5.1       4.0      0.7     1.0
"   50%                                         1.2
B. ROLLING
Average Operating Speed (km/br)    48        40        32       40      56
1. US cents per vehicle/km              9.5    10.5       20.5    12.3    2.3
2. US cents per ton/km or passenger/km:
Payload factor 100%        12.7      2.3       1.7      0.3     0.5
if     1"  75%          16.9       3.1       2.3      0.4     o.6
"!       "   60%         21.1      3.9       2.8      0.5     0.8
"   "   50%                                     0.9
C. FIAT
Average operating Speed (km/hr)     56       48        40       48      64
1. US cents per vehicle/km              8.0      8.9      16.6    10.5      2.0
2. US cents per ton/km or passenger/km:
Payload factor 100%        10.7      2.0       1.4      0.3     0-4
"1      1"  75%          14.2      2.6       1.8      0.4     0.5
"1      it  60c          17.8      3.3       2.3      0.4     0.7
it      it  50f                                               0.8
/ Includin truckers overhead _        __    _
Description of _'picaj Vehicles:  Light Truck: Pick-up, Loading capacity:  .75 tons
- bdium  "  : Two axles, six tires, loading
capacity: 4.5 tons.
Heavy      : Tractor and semi-trailer, four axles.
14 tires, loading capacity: 12 tons.
Bus        : 185 HP, 40 seats for passengers.
Automobile : Medium, 84 HP, 5 seats.
SOURCE: Dlinistry of Transportation, Costa Rica
February 1970



COSTA RICA: HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION
MINISTER
VICE-MINISTER
LEGAL      |                                                      t    PLANNING
ASSESSOR                                                                DEPARTMENT
ADMINISTRATIVE
DEPARTMENT
I  .    I               I                              'I  __,,_j____I
GENERAL DIRECTORATE                 DIRECTORATE OF
GENERL DIRECTRAE                    OF AUTOMOTIVE                    INTERAMERICAN                     IGSTITUTE
TRANSPORT                          MIGHWAY                           STTE
GENERAL DIRECTORATE                DIRECTORATE OF                     ASSISTANCE TO
OF PORTS                       CIVIL AVIATION                       SMALL.
COMMUNIT IES
O~te-t- ',F e
B3RB-4095 






CHART I I
COSTA RICA: HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
DIRECTOR
SUBDIRECTOR
[  PROGRAMMING          ADMINISTRATIVE           LEGAL OFFICE         ENGINEERING
AND CONTROL            SERVICES
UI.
U-
I-
WORK SCHEDULES |T RAWY
COST CONTROL                                                        BRIDGES
MAINTENANCE          AND SUPPLIES           AND BETTERMENTS    TAF       ERING
LU
z
IBRD - 4830






LA1        Alt6UA Ml =     = 9                           =                                     - - _
N           I          CA                                       A-----.U                             A
SNOAS -- ~ ~       ~           ~          ~         ~         ~         --------
4--                                                                                                                                                                                      COSTA  RICA
- N                                                                                                                         ...    --' °u- '\ ( - HIGHWAY NETWORK
e - 4      <                              / '                        ')            '.    )          A        N E   2      t               ( N. AAAAS  0
''V -ALOop.i. ,-pANNSL            I       E       , , -'  SANGeu AAC/A                          LAALSA
ZO   T                                                         /          Z 0 N E   5                              - 
7                                   /                        rffloo    g.   iv setsca  t  A S   tSTA NASA  |   T.                                    0=
O 4  ON       A.x
... ~ ~     ~             ~             ~             ~             ~> ZON                 01                                                                   -------
OCEAN                                                                                                           9y
,  s             ~~~~RED8ONDAF           1'' -_                                                                                                                                                          v       '                        _
EL GALLSTG                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIAONA  REIOAL  HIGHWAYS            >       Z N              AA
\Jk         -    a  ffi~~~~~~0.CARRIZAL  ..SW* ASHA,                                                                                              PAVED                                                                       '' =====
NDERt CONSTRUCTION OR IMPROVEMENT
-R        CI *.-<  YX.=. __FIRST BANK/IDA HIGHiWAT PRO.JECT
N5.  APRENTINA  *VO -II.   D    O                                               'ELDER  ROADS  CONSTRUCTED WITH IDB PARTICIPATIO
(ALL WEATHER ROADS)
,\*_-_-_ -_ tPCONSTRUCTED
-U-----LNDER CONSTR CTION
IRRO STRRUCARE5  DST!A.GO A N A _  >         '''-"''''''     TO BE CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                    N AoNA_N
SAN ISIDRO D EGAC NADO                     PLANNED ROADS(LONG RANGE PLAN)
........OTHER ROADS
*'OJARls   STA- !tA  DAVAS AMPA f                     PWSECOND  HIGHWAY PROJECT
SAN   S7 LLWANO GAN                         coNsrRUCTION SIQUIRRES-LIMON ROAD
A* AS' EA ~  ~      ~      .............. .FEASIBILITY STUDY,SAN  GOSE-SIQUIRRES(VIA GAPLS
NEGRASIEA                                                    SATAIA                                              MAINTENANCE ZONE LIMITS
OESAPNDS             A   PTRAMAINTENANCE  SHOPS
W AIN                                                                                                                -
o SECONDARY
G IFO                     5 PRIS 5L                                                                                     RAILWAY                                    KD                                              30    40     KORM
ALTO
..L -  P.RtSCAL           KILOMETERS
FEBRUARY  1970                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD-2377R



