Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7795 JO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
Recovery Under Global Uncertainty
 
Development Policy Loan 
 
between 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 23, 2009 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7795 JO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 23, 2009, entered into between THE HASHEMITE 
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions 
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million US Dollars 
(US$300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
Page  3
2
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
Page  4
3
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation of the Borrower. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
Post office Box 555  
Amman, 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
962-6-464 9341 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  5
4
Page  6
5
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written. 
 
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By /s/ Shamshad Akhtar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Waleed Al-Hadeed 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. The 
Borrower
’s Cabinet has passed a decision to: (i) eliminate tax exemptions 
issued under said Cabinet’s authority that do not provide for a specific duration or 
amount for the exemption; (ii) consider any new tax exemptions on condition that there is 
a
sound framework that identifies the rationale for said tax exemptions, as well as 
consider the costs of the foregone revenues, and establish a specified duration for the tax 
exemptions; and (iii) clarify that no tax exemptions will be proposed outside the main 
legislative  framework for taxation. 
 
2. 
The Borrower’s Prime Minister has issued the 2010 Budget Circular, including: 
(i) the medium-term fiscal parameters for 2010-2012, with a revised budget for the fiscal 
year 2009, as a baseline in which 2009 public expenditures, other than subsidies, are 
reduced by at least 4.0 percentage points of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), in 
accordance with the revised 2009 Budget Circular; and (ii) a comprehensive policy 
framework that includes stable wage and salary expenditures in terms of GDP compared 
to the fiscal years 2008-2009, and the termination of the remaining subsidies for oil 
derivatives and barley, including the resulting expenditure ceiling which translates into a 
lower budget deficit before any grants by at least 1.0 percentage point of GDP in 2010 
over 2009. 
 
3. 
The Borrower’s Ministry of Finance has adopted an enhanced budget calendar to 
strengthen the initial strategic phase of budget preparation, and such calendar shall guide 
the review of budget performance, budget strategies and budget priorities as well as the 
evaluation of medium-term spending requirements, and shall set forth provisions for 
Cabinet level consultations in the first quarter of each fiscal year on key parameters and 
issues underlying the development of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework 
(MTEF) based on a Budget Policies and Priorities Paper. 
 
4. 
The Central Bank of Jordan has completed a first-run of stress testing on the 
aggregate banking sector balance sheet and has issued guidelines on stress testing to 
individual banks; and the first-run stress testing by a select group of banks has been 
completed.  
 
5. 
The Borrower’s Cabinet has approved a draft Credit Bureau Law that provides for the 
public availability of adequate and timely borrower-credit information, concerning both banking 
and non-bank borrowers, and that gives such borrowers the right to verify said information.   
 
Page  8
7
6. 
The Borrower’s Cabinet has approved a draft Company Law that: (i) abolishes the 
minimum capital requirements for limited liability companies; and (ii) eliminates the 
requirement for depositing fifty (50) percent of the capital of limited liability companies in 
commercial banks. 
 
7. 
The Borrower’s Cabinet has approved a draft Bankruptcy and Insolvency Law 
that provides for the priority order of secured creditors in banckruptcy cases.  
 
8. 
The Borrower has set up specialized commercial court divisions at eight courts 
outside Greater Amman to improve the resolution of business disputes.  
 
9. 
The Borrower has adopted a program, as part of the broader framework provided 
for under the draft Social Security Law, to provide unemployment insurance benefits to 
members of the Social Security Corporation, which benefits consist of: (a) a flexible 
mechanism of unemployment insurance savings accounts financed by contributions from 
employers and employees; (ii) the use of balances in savings accounts or borrowing from 
accumulated pension rights with limits to be determined by regulation; and (iii) coverage 
for all Social Security Corporation members after a minimum vesting period to be 
determined by regulation. 
 
10. 
The Borrower, through its National Aid Fund (NAF), has initiated testing of a 
new targeting mechanism that is envisaged under the NAF Renewal Action Plan, 
including: (i) the drafting of revised and/or improved questionnaires for such targeting; 
(ii) the collection of data from at least 2,000 households out of the targeted 6,000 
households; and (iii) the development and population of a database using the data 
referred to in (ii) above.   
 
Section II
.
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(expressed in US dollars) 
 
(1) Single 
Tranche 
299,250,000 
(2) 
Front-end Fee 
        750,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
300,000,000
Page  9
8
C.  
Deposit of Loan Amounts
 
1. 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain the following two deposit 
accounts on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank:   
 
(a)  
a deposit account in US dollars; and  
 
(b) 
a deposit account in Jordanian Dinars.   
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Foreign Currency Deposit Account.  Upon the deposit of the Loan amount into the 
Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the Borrower shall deposit an equivalent amount into 
the Local Currency Deposit Account.  All amounts withdrawn from the Local Currency 
Deposit Account shall be used exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  
 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Accounts and their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any 
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon 
such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2015 
 
through May 15,  2029 
 
3.33% 
 
On November 15, 2029 
3.43% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
Page  11
10
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
Page  12
11
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Budget Policies and Priorities Paper” means the Borrower’s paper issued by the 
Borrower’s General Budget Department on an annual basis, reflecting the 
Government of Jordan’s budget policies and priorities over the medium-term. 
 
2. 
“Deposit Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the 
Local Currency Deposit Account.” 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
 
Sub-Group 
 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non
-
Page  13
12
 
Group 
 
Sub-Group 
 
Description of Item 
 
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
w
atch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
4. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C.2 of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
6. 
“Local Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C.2 of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
 
Page  14
13
 
7. 
“National Aid Fund” means the Borrower’s National Aid Fund established by the 
National Aid Fund Law of 1986, or any successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated September 16, 2009 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
9. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
Page  15
14
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put, 
other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan 
Agreement in support of which the Loan is made.” 
 
