Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5002 
Operation Name 
Jordan Recovery Under Global Uncertainty DPL 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General finance sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P117023 
Borrower(s) 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
Date PID Prepared 
August 20, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 27, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
October 13, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Notwithstanding the difficult regional political environment and the lack of resources, Jordan has 
achieved above-average development outcomes within its income group. Underpinned by its strong trade 
links with the region, Jordan’s economy has shown strong performance since 2000 with annual real GDP 
growth averaging 7.5 percent and per capita GDP more than doubling.  Growth has been broad based, led 
by manufacturing, construction, real estate and services sectors. Inflation remained low (except for the 
surge in 2008 driven by international oil and food prices) and although the external deficit widened, 
sizable FDI inflows enabled a steady and sizable increase in international reserves.  This can be credited 
to sound development policies, recent substantial capital inflows and to one of the world's highest levels 
of unilateral transfers (workers’ remittances and public grants, amounting to about 20-25 percent of 
GDP). However, Jordan is vulnerable to adverse external events, such as the recent increase in world oil 
and food prices and the global recession as well as deterioration in external flows.
 
Over the last decade, Jordan has been very active in reforming its economy.  It has a sound record as one 
of the lead reformer in MENA, particularly in liberalizing private investment regime, opening the trade 
regime, establishing modern regulation and institutions for the private sector development and 
privatization, strengthening public financial management system and building human resources through a 
comprehensive education sector reform.  The process of structural reforms has been accompanied by a 
painful fiscal consolidation that has steadily reduced government debt from above 200 percent of GDP in 
the early 1990s, to 62.4 percent by the end of 2008.  While the price shocks in 2008 (which coincided 
with the elimination of oil subsidies) led to divergence from the fiscal consolidation efforts with wide-
ranging compensation policy, the Government continues to emphasize economic reforms and macro-
fiscal sustainability.  Sustained progress in the implementation of fiscal consolidation program and 
structural reforms are key to maintaining good economic performance and achieving faster decline in 
poverty in the period ahead. 
 
Jordan’s limited integration with global financial markets has buffered it from recent global financial 
turmoil preventing major losses among banks or capital flight.  The Central Bank of Jordan has taken pre-
emptive steps to maintain confidence and support the domestic money market, including full guarantee of 
all bank deposits.  However, the ongoing global turmoil is generating second order effects that could have 
a
substantial impact on the economy over the coming period. The three most important effects are 
declining global commodity prices (particularly oil with a positive impact on trade deficit but a negative 
impact on transfers and capital account), declining private capital flows (a major source of growth for 
Jordan), and sharply lower global and regional growth outlook (which would affect exports and 
Page  2
2
remittances). Based on potential impact of these effects, Jordan’s growth rate is expected to slip to 3-4 
percent during 2009 and 2010.  While growth will decline, other macroeconomic variables such as 
inflation, the current account balance and reserves, are expected to maintain a favorable trend in 2009 
relative to 2008, largely because of the effects of much lower oil prices and a lower volume of imports 
associated with lower private investments. 
 
Achieving sustained growth and reducing unemployment and poverty are the main development 
challenges in Jordan.  Commensurate with strong growth in investments and GDP, labor force growth in 
Jordan has been strong.  However, the unemployment among nationals declined slowly (from 14.5 
percent during 2000-05 to 12.7 percent in 2008).  Among the key factors explaining the simultaneous 
existence of high job growth with persistent unemployment among Jordanians are mismatches between 
the high expectations of the unemployed and the prevailing low wages of available jobs, and between the 
location of the new jobs created and those of unemployed. While employment among those who actively 
seek work need to be supported through increased focus on skills, addressing voluntary unemployment 
requires aligning policies with Jordan’s aspiration for becoming a knowledge economy. Such alignment 
requires removing legal and regulatory distortions and encouraging creation of new businesses, while 
increasing incentives to accept existing jobs by ensuring social protection reforms to increase incentives 
to work and by removing disincentives caused by civil service hiring practices. 
 
While high, the poverty rate has been declining in recent years.  The 2006 Household Income and 
Expenditure Survey estimated that 13 percent of the Jordanian population is living below the national 
poverty line.  Contrary to public perception, poverty in Jordan dropped between 2002 and 2006, but deep 
pockets of poverty persist—poverty in Jordan is shallow with large share of the population consuming at 
levels close to the national poverty line.  The decline in poverty is explained by an increase in real 
expenditure especially among the poorest resulting from a robust GDP growth and increasing remittances 
since 2000.  In contrast, income levels remained stagnant over the same period.  The Government has 
been providing cash transfers and various subsidies as part of its safety net, which reached its peak in 
2008 at the time of international price shocks.  Focusing on mechanisms that are systematically included 
in the budget, such as revising the National Aid Fund targeting, is more effective in protecting the poor 
and vulnerable.  Similarly, given that the labor income is the most important source of income for 
Jordanian households, fostering growth in poor areas and promoting broad-based growth, higher 
employment and productivity are important in attaining strong poverty reduction. 
 
Addressing these development challenges are the key priorities of the Government.  In 2005, a Steering 
Committee (including representatives from the government, civil society, private sector, Parliament, and 
media) completed the National Agenda—an ambitious development agenda to transform Jordan into a 
modern knowledge-based economy with higher value added, increased productivity, employment and 
welfare through sustained and broadly-shared growth, while achieving fiscal sustainability. 
Modernization of the country’s economic, institutional and political infrastructure, reforming education, 
improving the business environment, and attacking deep poverty are at the core of this Strategy.  The 
current Government’s program presented to Parliament in December 2007 runs along the same lines of 
the National Agenda. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed operation is designed to support the implementation of the Government’s medium-term 
development program in the context of the current global financial crisis and economic slowdown.  
Specifically, it supports following policy areas, aiming at strengthening the resilience of the economy to 
better position Jordan to resume and sustain high growth while cushioning the impact of the slowdown on 
the poor and vulnerable: (i) reducing fiscal vulnerability by broadening the tax base and enhancing 
Page  3
3
effectiveness of government expenditures; (ii) strengthening the financial sector by further enhancing 
regulation and supervision and improving access to finance; (iii) improving the business climate to 
encourage more private sector investment; and (iv) facilitating access of vulnerable groups to a more 
effective and fiscally sustainable social protection system. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The reform progra
m
supported by the DPL operation is fully consistent with the key priorities of Jordan’s 
National Agenda and a core element of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for Jordan (2006-10) 
which focuses on :
 
(i) strengthening the investment environment and building human resources for a 
value-added, skill-intensive and knowledge-based economy; (ii) supporting local development through 
increased access to services and economic opportunities; (iii) reforming social protection and expanding 
inclusion; and (iv) restructuring public expenditures. The Bank has maintained a continuous technical 
dialogue in the policy domains supported by the DPL operation which consolidates this long standing 
dialogue and assistance to support the key reforms. Reforms in the DPL-supported policy areas will not 
only support macroeconomic stability, at present perceived as the most important business-enabling issue, 
and growth, but will also pave the way for advancing Jordan’s structural reform agenda which envisages 
progressively promoting higher value-added sources of growth and job creation in transitioning economic 
sectors to the knowledge economy. Further implementation progress of specific DPL program 
components over the period ahead are expected to continue because the reforms are mature, supported by 
technical assistance and widely discussed within the Government and with key stakeholders and donors.  
This operation will inform the preparation of the new CAS (scheduled for FY2011) which will facilitate 
continuity in the reform dialogue.  
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed loan will follow the Bank’s disbursement procedures for development policy support
 
and 
will be disbursed in a single installment upon loan effectiveness.  IBRD Loan amount: US$ 300 million. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The responsibility for implementing the program in Government rests with the Ministry of Planning and 
International Cooperation which will coordinate all relevant activities with other Ministries.  The 
Government will take the lead in monitoring progress in implementation by collecting the necessary data 
for the identified monitoring indicators. The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation and the 
Bank have agreed to monitor the progress in the program supported by the DPL and its evaluation will 
serve to inform preparation of a new Country Assistance Strategy (scheduled for FY2011). 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
 
The program is expected to (i) reduce fiscal vulnerability by broadening the tax base and enhancing 
effectiveness of government expenditures; (ii) strengthen the financial sector by further enhancing 
regulation and supervision and improve access to finance; (iii) improve the business climate to encourage 
more private sector investment; and (iv) facilitate access of vulnerable groups to a more effective and 
fiscally sustainable social protection system.  These outcomes will collectively support growth while 
cushioning the impact of the economic slowdown on the poor and vulnerable in a context of the global 
financial crisis. The loan will also help Jordan finance its budget deficit and maintain macroeconomic 
Page  4
4
stability in the current difficult and volatile international economic environment especially as the 
Government does not rely on financing from the international market. 
 
Risks  
 
The Program faces two main risks: 
·
Economic risks.
 The global crisis continue to unfold, exposing Jordan’s economic prospects to 
risks driving from further weakening of global, and particularly Gulf, economy.  At the source of 
these risks are still high level of public debt, large twin deficits and heavy dependence on remittances 
and foreign aid. While the risk of external instability arising from the capital account is mitigated by 
the fact that external debt is owed predominantly to official creditors, and reserves provide 
comfortable liquidity cover relative to short-term liabilities, heavy reliance on regional liquidity to 
sustain financing inflows translate into high external vulnerability. If financing further dries, the 
contraction of real GDP and the increase in unemployment would be more pronounced over the 
coming year than anticipated. This would strain the banks and the corporate sector and would also 
create difficulties for the achievement of the fiscal targets. The risk of gradual economic recovery has 
been incorporated into the macroeconomic projections. The risk of external financing difficulties is 
mitigated by largely prudent policies supporting a measured external adjustment and adequate 
liquidity, Jordan’s relative attractiveness to Arab investors, and significant donor support, including 
bilateral support from the US and Gulf states.   
·
Weakening political support.
 A prolonged and deeper domestic slowdown could add to social 
pressures, lead to backsliding on resumption of more disciplined approach to expenditure 
management policies, and adversely impact the health of the financial sector. In 2008 a resumption of 
expansionary fiscal policy in response to price shocks has led to adverse public debt dynamics and 
increased reliance on donor grants. This risk is addressed by the fact that key measures, such as 
control over excessive tax exemptions and capital spending, and elimination of remaining key 
subsidies, which will reduce fiscal pressures, are already being implemented as prior actions. The 
risks in the banking system have been further addressed through an active CBJ approach to identify 
risks and strengthen the supervisory powers. Similarly, major risks related to the implementation of 
specific program components are not foreseen because the reforms are mature, supported by technical 
assistance and widely discussed within the Government and with key stakeholders and donors. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
T
he measures contemplated under the proposed DPL are expected to ensure stability, support growth, and 
provide employment opportunities and better protection for poor and vulnerable.
 
To the extent the 
measures allow economic recovery as the global economic distress turns around and increase growth in 
the medium term, employment opportunities should increase and the poor should benefit. While the DPL 
includes fiscal adjustment measures, these do not impact the basic social services at the lower income 
segments which are protected.  
 
The overall fiscal adjustment measures aim at increasing confidence and investment funding to the 
economy while having positive social impact over the medium term.
 
The fiscal policy dimensions of the 
proposed operation are expected to have a positive medium-term social and poverty impact in a number 
of ways. Firstly, elimination of inefficient preferential tax rates, creating sectoral distortions by altering 
relative prices and harming equity while having no tangible impact on prices or demand will contribute 
putting Jordan’s fiscal deficits on a downward-sloping path. This will also help maintain macroeconomic 
stability which, in turn, has been an essential ingredient of any poverty reduction strategy. Secondly, they 
Page  5
5
increase the government’s fiscal space which is crucial for ensuring delivery of pro-poor social services. 
Thirdly, these measures remove price distortions and resulting deadweight losses in economic activity, 
thereby promoting economic growth which has been the key factor in Jordan’s poverty reduction over the 
recent years. On the expenditure side, the GoJ puts its emphasis on eliminating low-efficiency and 
wasteful spending without impacting basic social services. Any remaining adverse effects on the poor are 
expected to be addressed by strengthening of the country's social safety nets which is another component 
of this operation. 
 
The measures to enhance financial sector prudential supervision and regulation and increase access to 
finance are expected to have an indirect positive impact on poverty reduction. By reducing the exposure 
to potential vulnerabilities in the financial sector, the DPL measures help ensure that growth and the 
government’s program on poverty reduction are sustainable. A credit bureau, on the other hand, would 
introduce greater transparency into bank lending practices and lending decisions, and would open up 
access to loans for people that banks would not otherwise have considered, or who would have had to pay 
a
higher interest rate.  Restarting bank lending for SMEs through improving credit information and 
allowing the use of movable assets, would remove constraints to incomes and employment. SMEs are a 
principal source of private sector employment in Jordan.  E-payment mechanisms also hold significant 
potential to improve access to finance, at a lower cost, for rural and lower income populations.  
 
The measures to strengthen the business environment will support growth and employment creation, key 
objectives of the Government. The measures aimed at reducing firm’s entry costs, easing registration 
procedures (by improving the operation of existing one-stop-shops outside Amman) and rationalizing exit 
regulations will promote competition and favor a better use of resources on an economy wide basis. 
Firm’s operating costs should be reduced by improvements in i) contract enforcement processes 
(operationalization of specialized commercial sections by nominating specialized judges in courts outside 
Amman) and ii) in tax administration procedures (online filing system for tax returns and electronic 
payment system) which will help existing firms to remain profitable. Overall, the combination of 
measures aimed at improving markets contestability and reducing firm’s operating costs should lead to 
improved profitability, higher firm entry and new employment opportunities, fostering output growth in 
the medium term which should be to do benefit of the poor.  
 
While improving the long term sustainability and extending the coverage and scope of social security 
benefits, the social insurance reform attempts to correct some of the main sources of inequality in the 
current system.  Some specific mechanisms that will add progressivity to the social insurance scheme 
include: (i) change in the pension formula defining the pensionable salary as an average of a period of 3 
years prior to retirement, instead of the current rule of 2 years; (ii) introduction of income-related accrual 
rates (lower for the upper levels of salaries); (iii) extension of social security benefits to workers in firms 
with less than 5 employees; (iv) partial elimination of some regressive benefits such as early retirement 
and subsidized purchase of years of service; (v) social insurance for the unemployed; (vi) maternity 
benefits financed through contributions on all employers. Although unemployment insurance is defined in 
the new Social Insurance law as a system of individual accounts, the provision of resources partially 
financed through employers’ contributions will increase the protection of workers who become exposed 
to the risk of losing their jobs.  In the current system incentives to hiring women are low, since women 
employees or their employers have to bear the costs associated with maternity leave.  This also increases 
the wage differential between men and women.  The introduction of maternity benefits in the new Social 
Insurance law will tend to correct this undesirable redistributive impact by imposing the burden of 
financing to all employers based on a payroll contribution on salaries of men and women. 
 
Concerning the distributional impact of the NAF renewal, simulations have shown that the new PMT-
based targeting formula performs much better in terms of reaching the population below a certain 
threshold than the current targeting mechanism. While the current system covers 20 percent of the 
Page  6
6
households with per capita annual consumption expenditures below JD396, the new targeting mechanism 
would reach 81 percent of such households. Raising the poverty line to JD504 increases the number of 
households below it and understandably worsens the targeting outcomes of both systems. Nevertheless, 
the new targeting methodology reaches four times more of these households than the current mechanism 
(62 percent vs. 15 percent). In terms of cost efficiency, the simulations indicate that the new targeting 
methodology will be much more cost-efficient in comparison to the current system. Currently, for each 
JD that is transferred to those with per capita consumption below JD 396 per year (the target group), the 
NAF spends about JD 10, because of the high error of inclusion. The proxy-means formula improves this 
ratio to 1:2.5 due to 80 percent coverage and a significantly reduced error of inclusion. The NAF renewal 
plan also provides an opportunity to strengthen management and monitoring of programs by NAF 
through much greater reliance on ICT for evidence-based administration of the programs. The 
forthcoming implementation of the new system on a nationwide sample of 8,000-10,000 households, 
which the DPL focuses on, will provide further valuable feedback on the distributional impact of the new 
targeting mechanism and guide necessary improvements prior to its implementation.
 
Environmental Aspects 
 
This operation is a development policy loan in support of a program of reforms for which the 
environmental requirements of OP/BP8.60 apply.  Overall, policies supported by the proposed loan are 
not likely to have any significant direct effects on the environment and natural resources and safeguard 
policies (such as OP 4.01 Environmental Impact Assessment) do not apply to this operation.  
 
8. Contact point 
Sebnem Akkaya 
Lead Country Economist 
–
Jordan, Lebanon 
Social and Economic Development group 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
Tel: 5367+235 
Email: Sakkaya@worldbank.org 
Location: Beirut, Lebanon (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
