Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4936 
Operation Name 
Jordan Development Policy Loan 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General finance sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P117023 
Borrower(s) 
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
July 16, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 25, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 13, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Notwithstanding the difficult regional political environment and the lack of resources, Jordan has achieved above-
average development outcomes within its income group. Underpinned by its strong trade links with the region, 
Jordan’s economy has shown strong performance since 2000 with annual real GDP growth averaging 7.5 percent 
and per capita GDP more than doubling.  Growth has been broad based, led by manufacturing, construction, real 
estate and services sectors. Inflation remained low (except for the surge in 2008 driven by international oil and 
food prices) and although the external deficit widened, sizable FDI inflows enabled a steady and sizable increase 
in international reserves.  This can be credited to sound development policies, recent substantial capital inflows 
and to one of the world's highest levels of unilateral transfers (workers’ remittances and public grants, amounting 
to about 20-25 percent of GDP). However, Jordan is vulnerable to adverse external events, such as the recent 
increase in world oil and food prices and the global recession as well as deterioration in external flows.
 
Over the last decade, Jordan has been very active in reforming its economy.  It has a sound record as one of the 
lead reformer in MENA, particularly in liberalizing private investment regime, opening the trade regime, 
establishing modern regulation and institutions for the private sector development and privatization, strengthening 
public financial management system and building human resources through a comprehensive education sector 
reform.  The process of structural reforms has been accompanied by a painful fiscal consolidation that has steadily 
reduced government debt from above 200 percent of GDP in the early 1990s, to 62.4 percent by the end of 2008.  
While the price shocks in 2008 (which coincided with the elimination of oil subsidies) led to divergence from the 
fiscal consolidation efforts with wide-ranging compensation policy, the Government continues to emphasize 
economic reforms and macro-fiscal sustainability.  Sustained progress in the implementation of fiscal 
consolidation program and structural reforms are key to maintaining good economic performance and achieving 
faster decline in poverty in the period ahead. 
 
Jordan’s limited integration with global financial markets has buffered it from recent global financial turmoil 
preventing major losses among banks or capital flight.  The Central Bank of Jordan has taken pre-emptive steps to 
maintain confidence and support the domestic money market, including full guarantee of all bank deposits.  
However, the ongoing global turmoil is generating second order effects that could have a substantial impact on 
the economy over the coming period. The three most important effects are declining global commodity prices 
(particularly oil with a positive impact on trade deficit but a negative impact on transfers and capital account), 
declining private capital flows (a major source of growth for Jordan), and sharply lower global and regional 
growth outlook (which would affect exports and remittances). Based on potential impact of these effects, Jordan’s 
growth rate is expected to slip to 3-4 percent during 2009 and 2010.  While growth will decline, other 
macroeconomic variables such as inflation, the current account balance and reserves, are expected to maintain a 
favorable trend in 2009 relative to 2008, largely because of the effects of much lower oil prices and a lower 
volume of imports associated with lower private investments.
 
Page  2
Achieving sustained growth and reducing unemployment and poverty are the main development challenges in 
Jordan.  Commensurate with strong growth in investments and GDP, labor force growth in Jordan has been 
strong.  However, the unemployment among nationals declined slowly (from 14.5 percent during 2000-05 to 12.7 
percent in 2008).  Among the key factors explaining the simultaneous existence of high job growth with persistent 
unemployment among Jordanians are mismatches between the high expectations of the unemployed and the 
prevailing low wages of available jobs, and between the location of the new jobs created and those of 
unemployed. While employment among those who actively seek work need to be supported through increased 
focus on skills, addressing voluntary unemployment requires aligning policies with Jordan’s aspiration for 
becoming a knowledge economy. Such alignment requires removing legal and regulatory distortions and 
encouraging creation of new businesses, while increasing incentives to accept existing jobs by ensuring social 
protection reforms to increase incentives to work and by removing disincentives caused by civil service hiring 
practices. 
 
While high, the poverty rate has been declining in recent years.  The 2006 Household Income and Expenditure 
Survey estimated that 13 percent of the Jordanian population is living below the national poverty line.  Contrary 
to public perception, poverty in Jordan dropped between 2002 and 2006, but deep pockets of poverty persist—
poverty in Jordan is shallow with large share of the population consuming at levels close to the national poverty 
line.  The decline in poverty is explained by an increase in real expenditure especially among the poorest resulting 
from a robust GDP growth and increasing remittances since 2000.  In contrast, income levels remained stagnant 
over the same period.  The Government has been providing cash transfers and various subsidies as part of its 
safety net, which reached its peak in 2008 at the time of international price shocks.  Focusing on mechanisms that 
are systematically included in the budget, such as revising the National Aid Fund targeting, is more effective in 
protecting the poor and vulnerable.  Similarly, given that the labor income is the most important source of income 
for Jordanian households, fostering growth in poor areas and promoting broad-based growth, higher employment 
and productivity are important in attaining strong poverty reduction. 
 
Addressing these development challenges are the key priorities of the Government.  In 2005, a Steering 
Committee (including representatives from the government, civil society, private sector, Parliament, and media) 
completed the National Agenda—an ambitious development agenda to transform Jordan into a modern 
knowledge-based economy with higher value added, increased productivity, employment and welfare through 
sustained and broadly-shared growth, while achieving fiscal sustainability. Modernization of the country’s 
economic, institutional and political infrastructure, reforming education, improving the business environment, and 
attacking deep poverty are at the core of this Strategy.  The current Government’s program presented to 
Parliament in December 2007 runs along the same lines of the National Agenda. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed operation is designed to support the implementation of the Government’s medium-term 
development program with emphasis on macro-fiscal critical areas and social protection in the context of 
considerable uncertainty in global markets.  Specifically, it supports policy measures that aim to improve the 
resilience of the Jordanian economy to adverse shocks through (i) reducing fiscal vulnerability by broadening the 
tax base and enhancing effectiveness of government expenditures; (ii) strengthening the financial sector by further 
enhancing regulation and supervision; (iii) improving the business climate to encourage more private sector 
investment; and (iv) facilitating access of vulnerable groups to a more effective and fiscally sustainable social 
protection system. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
Fiscal Adjustment and Reforms.
 
The main objective of this component is to support Government’s efforts to 
reinstitute the fiscal consolidation plan so as to reduce large fiscal imbalances and to maintain macroeconomic 
stability.  Accordingly, it focuses on broadening the tax base without impacting lower income segments, and 
improving efficiency and effectiveness of the public expenditure policies, including through the processes for 
formulation and evaluation of fiscal policies.  
Page  3
Financial Sector Policies.
 
The main objective of this component is to support the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) 
in its continuing effort to promote financial sector stability and bank soundness.  In pursuit of this objective, it 
focuses
 on supporting the CBJ’s ongoing risk identification efforts through stress testing and consolidated 
supervision.   
Access to Finance.
 
This component supports the Government’s objective of increasing employment and 
reducing poverty through improved access to finance.  It builds on the Government’s program to improve the 
legal and policy infrastructure for restoring and expanding access to finance, while strengthening management of 
credit risk. 
Business Environment Reforms
.
The objective of this component is to further improve the business environment 
in Jordan through reducing firms’ operating costs.  It focuses on reducing firms’ entry costs and improving the 
exit process; improving the resolution of business disputes at the level of the judiciary in order to reduce firms’ 
operating costs, allowing more firms to be created with positive impact on job creation and employment; and 
easing the tax payment and filing.  
Social Insurance Reform.
 
This component supports the Government’s objective of improving the long term 
sustainability of the social insurance mechanisms while expanding the scope of the benefits to include 
unemployment insurance.      
Social Safety Net Reform.
 
The main objective of this component is to increase the efficiency and poverty impact 
of Jordan’s social safety nets through acceleration of the NAF Renewal Plan. The renewal plan, which has just 
started to be implemented, consists of: (i) implementation of a Management Information System to establish a 
Database on Poor and Vulnerable Population; (ii) strengthening NAF technical, administrative and benefit 
delivery capacity; and (iii) improving the targeting mechanism. 
4. Environment Aspects 
This operation is a development policy loan in support of a program of reforms for which the environmental 
requirements of OP/BP8.60 apply.  Overall, policies supported by the proposed loan are not likely to have any 
significant direct effects on the environment and natural resources and safeguard policies (such as OP 4.01 
Environmental Impact Assessment) do not apply to this operation.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($250 
m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
250 m. 
 Total 
250 
m. 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Sebnem Akkaya 
Lead Country Economist - Jordan, Lebanon  
Social and Economic Development Group  
Middle East and North Africa Region 
Tel: 5367+235, email: 
sakkaya@worldbank.org
Mailstop: BEYWB, Beirut Country Office 
 
