Document of
The World Bank
Rep.t No. 14325-SLU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAINT LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JUNE 14, 1995
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollars (EC)
EC 1.00 = US$0.37
US$1.00 = EC 2.7
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AESD         Agriculture Engineering Services Division of MOLAFF
BDDC          British Development Division in the Caribbean
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDB           Caribbean Development Bank
CGCED         Caribbean Group for Cooperation and Economic Development
CIDA          Canadian International Development Association
EU            European Union
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IMF           International Monetary Fund
LIB           Limited International Bidding
MOCWT         Ministry of Communications, Works and Transport
MOALFF        Ministry of Agriculture, Land, Forestry and Fisheries
MOPDE         Ministry of Planning, Development and Environment
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NEAP          National Environmental Action Plan
OAS           Organization of American States
ODA           Overseas Development Agency (of the UK)
ODP           Office of Disaster Preparedness
OECS          Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PIUMA         Project Implementation Unit of the MOALFF
PIUMCWT    Project Implementation Unit of the MOCWT
PCUMP         Project Coordinating Unit of the MOPDE
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
UK            United Kingdom



SAINT LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....
1. BACKGROUND  ............................................   1
2. THE PROJECT  ............................................   8
A. Origin and Concept .....................                                                 8
B. Objectives . ...................................                                         9
C. Project Description .......................   9
D. Implementation Arrangements  .........                     ..............  11
E.   Costs  and  Financing    .....................................  12
F. Procurement .......             ..............   ....................  14
G. Disbursements ...................................                                       16
H. Accounting and Audit .................................... 17
I. Project Monitoring and Evaluation ............................. 18
J. Environmental Impact ..................................    18
3. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS  .............................. 19
A. Benefits ...................................                                            19
B. Risks  ..................................  19
4. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION ..................................... 19
A. Agreements Reached ..................................... 19
B. Recommendation  .......................................  20
Annexes
1.      Project Implementation Plan .................................. 21
2.      Terms of Reference ........................................ 23
MAPS
This report is based on the findings of a Bank/IDA appraisal mission that visited Saint
Lucia in December 1994/January 1995 comprised of consultants Messrs./Mmes.
H. Nissenbaum, Maria Castro, J. I. Dempster, H. Brammer, J. R. Clark, W. T. van Ellen,
J. Staniforth, and S. Tamandong. Mr. Cesar A. Plaza was the Task Manager (LA3NR).
The Department Director, Project Advisor and Sector Division Chief were Messrs.
Yoshiaki Abe, Robert Crown and Nicholas Krafft, respectively.






SAINT LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Saint Lucia
Executing Agencies:         Ministry of Planning, Development and Environment
Ministry of Communications, Works and Transportation
Ministry of Agriculture, Land, Fisheries and Forestry
Amount:                     Loan of US$2.65 million equivalent
Credit of SDR 1.7 million (US$2.65 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Loan repayment in 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years,
with level payment schedule, and interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate; and Credit repayment in 35 years, including a
grace period of 10 years, at standard IDA terms.
Project Description:  The key objectives of the project will be to assist the Government in: (a)
short-term rehabilitation of St. Lucia's hydraulic infrastructure damaged
by tropical storm "Debbie"; (b) preparing an integrated watershed
management strategy and program; and (c) strengthening institutional
capacities in environmental management and flood preparedness. The
project would mainly comprise: (a) priority river and drainage works
to restore them to operable levels; (b) technical assistance for
geomorphological surveys, improving hydrological data collection and
analysis, and slope stabilization trials; and (c) technical assistance for the
preparation of watershed management plans and pilot projects, and for
improving sector institutions.
Project Benefits:    The main project benefits will be to reduce the probability of future flood
damage and  to address long term  natural resource management
problems. The project will introduce a more coherent strategy for land
usage in selected catchments. In the short run, the project will help
restore presently weakened hydraulic infrastructure in important
agricultural areas, enabling their residents to resume disrupted
employment more fully.
Poverty Category:    While the project is not included in the program of targeted poverty
interventions, its labor intensive work program will partly offset some of
the income lost from the storm's impact.
Project Risks:       The major project risks concern its timely implementation, as some of its
rationale would be vitiated by tardy execution, as the Government lacks
experience in managing activities of this type, it is taking suitable steps
to put project management on a firm basis from the outset, and to gear
up rapidly.
Financing Plan:      See para. 2.19
Net Present Value:   Not Applicable



-ii-
Maps:              IBRD 26634, 26776, 26777, 26778
Project ID:         LC-PA-39455



SAINT LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
Country Setting.
1.1    Saint Lucia is the most populous of the members of the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States (OECS), with 158,000 current residents. In the 1980s, its real annual growth
of gross domestic product (GDP) averaged about seven percent. This strong performance was
due to sound economic management (e.g., annual fiscal savings of about ten percent of GDP in
1988-93), expansion of markets for traditional exports, in particular bananas, and increased
tourism fueled by foreign investments of over ten percent of GDP. In their wake, the social
indicators showed significant improvement. However, based on a poverty profile initiated by the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) in 1994, there are indications that pockets of poverty exist.
1.2   Saint Lucia has reasonably good prospects for sustainable growth through building on
these achievements. But its past steady growth has slowed to less than three percent during the
1990s, largely because of fundamental changes in the external environment.  Increased
competition from Latin American banana exporters has eroded the country's long standing
preferential market arrangements in Western Europe. The initiation in mid-1993 of a more
restrictive European Union (EU) banana regime also figured in the recent slippage. In addition,
concessional aid flows have declined in the nineties. Social disruptions accompanied the changes
in the banana situation during 1993-94.
1.3    These adverse developments were exacerbated by the September 1994 tropical storm
"Debbie," which caused unprecedented damage. The resulting losses are estimated to have
reduced banana income by the equivalent of seven percent of 1993 GDP. The overall damage
to the economy was tentatively calculated at 19 percent of the same. Following these, the lower
banana export proceeds coupled with increased imports required for the reconstruction program
are projected to widen the gap in external accounts in 1994-95. The Government's projections
show that real GDP will significantly decline from an annual average of three percent during the
1990s to lower growth in the short run depending upon the pace of implementation of the
reconstruction program.
1.4    The flood damage, therefore, came at a difficult moment, especially as St. Lucia is
pursuing much needed economic diversification. The economy has already been undergoing
considerable change towards reduced agricultural dependence, with tourism and export services
becoming more prominent. However, agricultural diversification has yet to yield substantial
benefits, the last few years' construction boom has largely dissipated, and manufacturing activity
has turned down. To these ends, the authorities issued a medium term economic strategy
document (developed with the Bank) in March 1994; are discussing future banana policy with the
EU, UK and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB); and are examining development options
with bilateral assistance, including a program of economic transition that would: (i) restructure
the banana industry and wean away inefficient farmers; (ii) provide temporary safety nets for the
displaced farmers; and (iii) further develop infrastructure and human resources for services-
oriented economy while improving the incentive of regulatory frameworks for broad based
growth.
1.5   Saint Lucia's topography is rugged with mountain peaks and deeply incised river
channels. Less than ten percent of the total land area occurs on slopes of less than five degrees.
Thus the great bulk of land requires some form of soil conservation. In addition, only about six



-2-
percent of all available land is considered prime agricultural soil (Classes 1-111, U.S. Department
of Agriculture).
1.6    Agriculture contributed 20 percent of GDP in 1994, more than any other sector. In
addition, the 1991 census reflected that it occupied almost a fourth of the labor force, although
many farmers are subsistence producers who often have other income sources. Agriculture
dominates land usage too (about 55 percent of the island). The last land survey (1989) found
forests covering about 35 percent of the land, and settlements most of the balance. However,
forest clearance for cultivation has been proceeding rapidly; almost 20 percent of the land was
converted to agriculture in 1977-89.
Sectoral Issues and Government Strategy
1.7    Land Use.  This is influenced by several aspects of the country's property laws,
registration practices and by inadequate legislative and institutional capacity. The total land area
is 152,320 acres (616 square kilometers) of which 38 percent constitute total farm land. Of the
total farm land available, only 2.6 percent is of Class 1, 35 percent correspond to Class II to IV,
11 percent corresponds to forest reserve and the other 51 percent is distributed among grassland,
woodlands, rural settlements, urban, commercial, tourism and industrial uses. There are limited
flat lands, with less than ten percent of the island having slopes of less than five degrees. This
geographic configuration poses physical limitations on the availability of land to meet diverse
demands and interests.
1.8    With steep slopes occupying some two thirds of forest areas, the latter's increasing
cultivation has been worrying in its stimulation of more intensive farming. So too has the shift
towards smaller farms. Between 1973 and 1986, the number of farms grew about six percent
while the total cultivated area diminished 19 percent. Farms over 50 acres have comprised less
than one percent of the total. Conversely, 92 percent of the farms had 4 or fewer ha, and
produced about 60 percent of agricultural output.
1.9    These trends have made for a considerable mismatch between land suitability and its
actual use. The 1989 studies performed for the Forest Management Plan showed high or very
high conflict between actual and recommended land use on almost seven percent of Saint Lucia,
and moderate conflict on about 25 percent. While the overall figures are not alarming, the largest
areas in the moderate-very high conflict classes were in the agriculturally important Roseau and
Cul de Sac watersheds. Moreover, the areas in the moderate to very high conflict classes are
believed to have grown since the 1989 assessment. The Forest Management Plan calls for
numerous measures to stem this deterioration, including reforestation activities, intensified
extension services in forest buffer zones, and tighter patrolling to prevent encroachment.
1.10   The agricultural land which is intensively farmed is mainly used for monoculture of
bananas, sometimes mixed with coconuts or other tree crops. The most concentrated banana
production occurs on plantations on flat valley land and adjacent moderately sloping hills. The
growing number of small-scale producers mostly farm on steeper, higher land. This is troubling
because valley production requires the maintenance of forest cover in the upper watersheds to
reduce runoff and erosion.
I.11   Agricultural land, as well as towns and roads in valleys, have consequently become more
vulnerable to floods, river siltation and sediment flows. Over time, substantial tracts of banana
crop, soil cover and forests have been lost. Also, the sustained environmental degradation from
the increasing moves to higher slopes has decreased water retention capacity, thereby overtaxing
drainage systems. The devegetation of upland areas has caused thousands of tons of silt and
sediment to be eroded during rainy periods. Sediment clogs stream channels, causing floods that



-3-
have weakened infrastructure. It also has clouded water and has been choking coral reefs,
reducing marine productivity and tourism attractions.
1.12   Furthermore, Saint Lucia suffers from widespread landslides and torrential rains often
exceed 150 inches yearly in the interior, causing runoff down sloping parts of catchments. Since
the latter are usually small and the slopes relatively steep, the runoff is quite high. Besides these
natural problems, Saint Lucia's agricultural development has been constrained by the overall
small land area, equally small sized farms, skewed distribution of lands (many without title) and
absentee ownership. The sector moreover has been excessively dependent on the output of
bananas, the country's most adequate crop. Their exports grew from 84,000 to 132,000 tons in
1987-92. This situation is now jeopardized with the aforementioned narrowing of preferential
banana sales arrangements. Under the EU trade regime which became effective in July 1993,
St. Lucia will continue to have access to that market for some 127,000 ton banana exports.
However, it now confronts increased competition from countries that produce bananas at lower
cost and with equal, if not better, quality. Consequently, present developments project further,
and sharper, price declines and smaller export revenues.
1.13   The Government has been trying to develop more non-traditional crops for diversifying
agriculture. These efforts, ongoing for some time, have had limited success. In part, this has
been due to banana production's preferential prices, guaranteed markets, insurance scheme and
effective payments systems. The country has also found some agricultural alternatives to be
risky, and total non-traditional export earnings averaged only US$1 million p.a. in 1987-92.
Therefore the changing circumstances require redoubling these efforts. The Government's recent
medium-term economic strategy consequently calls, among others, for increasing the capacity of
livestock and fisheries, pursuing more market-oriented diversification approaches, and upgrading
distribution and marketing facilities.
1.14   In the interim, the deteriorating banana prospects are apt to alter land use and agricultural
employment. Marginal farmers may withdraw from banana production and need other means of
livelihood. Some medium and large-scale banana farmers may gradually convert part of their
land to growing other cash crops. (Saint Lucia's valley soils, unsuitable for deep-rooting tree
crops, could be used for intensive vegetable or cut flower production.) Some large-scale banana
farmers will probably seek to increase the efficiency of their production in order to remain
competitive. Thus, there could be substantially increased demand for irrigation systems in order
to reduce drought impacts. Other requirements would probably include considerably improved
extension services, more reliable availability of fertilizers, and greater attention to fruit quality
and to timing more banana exports to meet peak European demands.
1.15   Water Use and River Management. The island's water resources are limited with no
economic prospects for increases (at present technology); groundwater supply is negligible.
Storage of supplies to meet dry season needs and accessing sediment-free water in other months
are already major problems; there is frequent rationing. Agriculture has traditionally deserved
priority in its water claims. But now with tourism and urban demands growing, it will have to
reduce its demands. The Roseau water storage reservoir is scheduled to ensure adequate supply
up to year 2025. But it will not serve the growing southern areas. Water resource management,
therefore, requires equally high priority, as do considerations of reducing crops' water demands
and irrigation. Better watershed management in Saint Lucia needs to take into account that the
rivers (which provide most water supplies) are subject to increasing demands. In practice, this
means management of the rivers so that they are kept in such shape that they can perform
optimally. For these purposes, there needs to be more effective coordination among the several
government agencies concerned with development, allocation and regulation of these resources.
The proposed project aims to advance this.



-4-
1.16   Lack of Adequate Information and Instrumentation. Present climatic and hydrological
data collection and analysis must be upgraded because they are inadequate for planning resource
development. One of the recent experience's lessons was the impossibility of analyzing the
flood's magnitude or measuring its impact on inland water because of the paucity of reliable data
on rainfall, river levels and stream flow. The few hydrological instruments in place did not
function while others were washed away. There are furthermore no records of any length about
discharges in any rivers, save for information limited to the Roseau area. Current data moreover
only permits speculation as to whether "Debbie"-type storms are prone to recur at average 50
year intervals or more frequently. Thus, the network of meteorological and hydrological stations
should be expanded and its equipment upgraded.
1.17   Environmental Concerns.  Environmental awareness in Saint Lucia was relatively
advanced prior to the storm.  Agriculture and tourism have been recognized to be heavily
dependent on the use of the country's limited natural resources. The Government encourages
attention to environmental issues and, out of these concerns, the authorities have been attacking
several environmental problems over the past several years, e.g., commissioning the Rodney Bay
(sewerage) and Roseau Dam, and chartering solid waste management activities (the subject of a
proposed OECS project that the Bank is now helping prepare). They likewise prepared (with
Bank support) the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), and with support from several
national and regional NGOs a Forestry Management Plan.
1.18   Slope erosion has been termed the "most visibly dramatic conservation issue in Saint
Lucia" because thousands of tons of silt and sediment are eroded in the rainy season from
deforested upland areas and carried away by enhanced runoff. The sediment clogs stream
channels causing floods and infrastructure damage, fills drainage ditches, clouds the water and
chokes coral reefs as it finally settles in the sea. Such damage depletes the coastal fisheries
dependent upon coral reefs and detracts from the diving experience so important to Saint Lucia's
tourism industry. Frequent heavy scouring of rivers and silt accumulation along with loss of
rive-edge vegetation have adverse effects on riverine life and biodiversity Water supplies are
also affected since natural storage of water in the upper watersheds is reduced by clearing and
cultivating hillsides.
1.19   Strategies to reduce the adverse environmental impacts of deforestation and cultivation
practices should be an integral element of proposed watershed management initiatives. "Debbie"
underscored the need for greater momentum in these fields. The nation was shocked into a
greater appreciation of the fragility of its environment and that past practices have posed serious
flood hazards to low-lying, heavily populated sections downstream. The storm thus confirmed
the NEAP's judgment that "...there still remains much to be done, particularly in the areas of
institutional coordination for environmental management..".  The proposed project includes
measures aimed at such requirements (para. 2.11).
1.20   Disaster Preparedness.  Hurricanes, tropical storms and depressions are the most
common and damaging natural disasters with potential for severe impacts on the country.
Hurricanes usually occur between June and November, with 80 percent of those affecting Saint
Lucia occurring between July 15 and October 1. The major causes of damage from hurricanes
are flooding from rainfall, coastal flooding, storm waves, landslides and winds. The Government
has established an Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) to coordinate all preparedness activities
with a national network of community groups which can be activated in response to any disaster
or emergency.
1.21   Notwithstanding the functions assigned to this office, its capacity needs to be strengthened
to minimize the impact of disasters similar to "Debbie" and to provide the population with an
effective early warning system. The vulnerability of floodplain areas to flash floods may have



-5-
increased after "Debbie" due to destabilization of soils on slopes in areas where land slips
occurred and the silting up of river beds. Thus, preparation of flood hazard mapping in priority
watersheds would be supported under the proposed project. It would complement a landslide
hazard map currently under preparation by an OAS-funded specialist. Other aspects to be
included under the proposed project: arrangements to establish 24-hour operation of the
Meteorological Services's forecasting office and radio services when there is risk of heavy rainfall
events; improved arrangements for public warnings of the risk of flash floods in towns and
villages located in vulnerable floodplain areas; design and establishment of a system to
disseminate information regarding location of shelters throughout the island; and developing an
improved building code appropriate to the potential natural hazards that affect the country.
1.22   Institutional Aspects. While reportedly there is a substantive body of legal instruments
to deal with resource management issues, the main weakness is the lack of adequate
environmental focus and the dispersal of responsibility for administering and enforcing existing
legislation. In addition, resource management functions are not always clear cut and overlapping
of responsibilities is not uncommon.  Lack of inter-institutional coordination results in a
fragmentation of some key governmental functions such as development control, resource
protection and resource development. Presently, forests, banana crops, water supply, fisheries
and communities within a watershed are all managed by different entities working in relative
isolation from one another but significantly affecting each other's jobs.  For a sustainable
management effort to be successful, an institutional framework must be created and supported
by a multi-sectoral, inter-institutional cooperation plan.
1.23   The main institution within Government which has a role in environmental management
is the Ministry of Planning, Development and Environment (MOPDE). The Central Planning
Unit of this Ministry is made up of six sections. Even within this Ministry, several of the
Sections have varying degrees of responsibility for environmental management and resource
coordination. The Government needs to establish an institutional focal point within the Ministry
of Planning with a clearly defined and effective role in environmental planning and management.
The main functions of this focal point should be to take the lead role in developing/updating
national environmental policy, establish coordinating inter-institutional links to carry out policy
decisions and ensure consultations within and outside the Government on environmental issues.
1.24   For the proposed project, the immnediate objective would be to establish a temporary
institutional mechanism involving the existing entities that have specific sectoral responsibilities
in implementing activities under the proposed project. These entities include: the Ministry of
Communications, Works and Transport (MOCWT), and the Ministry of Agriculture, Lands,
Forestry and Fisheries (MOALFF). However, coordination and responsibility should be assigned
to the MOPDE. In addition to these entities, the Government should coordinate its efforts with
Non-Governmental Organizations and formal/informal town committees to assure public
participation.
Tropical Storm "Debbie"
1.25   The uncertainties about the future were enlarged by "Debbie," which, although the
hydrologic data is weak, clearly was one of the country's worst storms. It aggravated agricultural
areas already saturated by previous rainfall, rerouted channels, scoured banks and deposited thick
silt layers. Rivers overflowed their banks, flooding adjacent agricultural land and urban areas.
Even protected riverbanks eroded, and bridges and culverts were washed away. Heavy sediment
was deposited on the banks and in the river bed, obstructing later normal flows. There were
heavy farming losses with about half of banana production acreage affected; 20 percent was
severely damaged. Fortunately though, bananas are a resilient crop and there already are signs
of some quick recovery.



-6-
1.26   In addition, the Government speedily and successfully launched emergency relief
operations. About 80 percent of water supply was resumed, temporary bridges installed, roads
cleared and some river protection works begun. Debris and sediment deposits were removed
from urban areas and critical river channel sections, and drainage canals are being cleared of silt.
The completion of Roseau Dam (which Loan 3184-SLU and Credit 2120-SLU are assisting) will
be delayed but its construction has been resumed. The Overseas Development Agency (ODA)
through its Caribbean affiliate, the British Development Division in the Caribbean (BDDC) and
the Canadian International Development Association (CIDA) provided timely assistance for these
measures, which started to contain and somewhat ameliorate "Debbie's" infrastructural damage.
However, these efforts were hampered by additional rains, and further repair work had to await
the 1995 dry season.
1.27   However, notwithstanding the storm's considerable direct damage, "Debbie's" main
significance was its worsening of the already stressed environment as a consequence of the
aforementioned past inappropriate land cultivation practices (ref. paras. 1.8-1.10). One example
of the compounded effects has been the greater density after the storm of landslides in deforested
slopes than elsewhere. Second, the eroded riverbanks and areas exposed by land slides now need
to be stabilized more urgently in order to reduce further large sediment movements into rivers
during future rainy seasons. There is now considerably more transportable sediment in the
watersheds, some of which will be deposited in river and drainage channels. The attendant river
meandering that may be induced could expose bank protection works to heavier scouring.
Moreover, the storm's added pressure on natural resources will worsen damage from even much
milder future storms. Therefore, all river and drainage works will need much more maintenance
in the immediate future, especially to compensate for recent under-investment in such activities.
1.28   Last November, the Government estimated that the reconstruction program would require
some US$57 million over the next three years. It reported that only slightly more than half of
this sum had then been pledged or identified. As a result, given reduced export earnings and
smaller customs revenues, the authorities have been confronting serious fiscal constraints. The
Government deferred all capital workcs programmed for 1994-95. In the process too, social
hardships have increased, particularly among the many small farmers. Lessening this toll is the
immediate objective of the rehabilitation program which the authorities are eager to advance as
far as possible during the 1995 dry season. They particularly seek to retrain the rivers affected,
clear the blocked drainage, and remove the heavy sedimentation to bring productive activities and
the livelihood of the population back to more normal levels.
1.29   The proposed project investments address these problems. Regarding maintenance costs,
it is estimated that during the next five years, annual maintenance spending would triple the costs
of previous normal years. The incremental recurrent budget expenditures over this period are
estimated to total US$7.1 million. These annual expenditures would be included in the annual
Project Implementation Plan (para.2.33).
Government Strategy
1.30   In the wake of these events, the Government fully understands that "Debbie's"
incremental effects have exacerbated the already serious issues in watershed management, and
intends to take steps to prevent further expansion of cultivation in the remaining forest areas, and
to persuade farmers to abandon their harmful practices. The Government's Forest Management
Plan aims, among other things, to expand forest reserves in the upper watersheds and water
catchment areas; reforest non-forested areas within forest reserves; strengthen the patrolling of
reserve boundaries to prevent encroachment; strengthen wildlife and applied research activities;
and strengthen the organizational structure of the Forest and Land Department. The authorities



-7-
particularly appreciate that they lack an appropriate strategy to guide sector policies addressing:
(a)    the use and protection of somewhat depletable natural resources in sustainable
agricultural systems;
(b)    orchestrating basic changes in land uses by, and income sources of, a sizeable
part of the work force; and
(c)    focusing agricultural practices more on improved productivity rather than on
expansion of cultivated areas.
1.31   The Government has, therefore, set the following medium-term targets:
(a)    to establish development criteria and guidelines and formulate a phased watershed
management plan by approximately fall 1995;
(b)    to put an institutional framework with supporting rules in place by end 1995;
(c)    to start the first watershed management pilot project in January 1996, followed
by the initiation of the first full watershed operation;
(d)    to introduce land use and watershed regulations and complete the main works in
the first full watershed operation by end 1997; and
(e)    by the end of 2000, achieve reasonable river stabilization in the first full
watershed project, and to have introduced and enforced final sector regulations.
Lessons from General Bank Experience
1.32   Key lessons from emergency recovery-type activities have been that reconstruction by
itself is not enough: measures must be taken to reduce the risk of future disaster damage, and
to safeguard people at risk. The proposed operation would help lessen this vulnerability. It also
adapts other lessons of past Bank projects of this type, in particular the experience that "fast
track" operations, in the interests of quick responses, sometimes overlook important long run
concerns. In this connection, the proposed project would address the problems of landslide
hazards and concerns of beneficiaries. Further an Operations Evaluation review of water sector
projects over two decades was discussed in the Water Resources Management Policy Paper
(WRMPP) sent to the Board on April 30,1993. Although it found that there had been relatively
few activities in watershed management the latter was an important ingredient in the sustainability
of certain (irrigation) projects. The design of this project follows closely the recommendations
of the WRMPP.
Project Context
1.33   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Saint Lucia, part of a Bank regional OECS
assistance strategy', seeks to support the Government's economic transition program. It puts
special attention on:  (i) acceleration of private-sector led economic diversification; (ii)
restructuring the public sector for more adequate public savings; (iii) infrastructure and human
resource development, and poverty alleviation; and (iv) natural resource management.
1. The OECS CAS (SecM95-457) was discussed by the Board on May 4, 1995.



-8-
1.34   The Bank Group assistance programs in the Caribbean are based on three pillars: (i) a
major aid coordinating role through the Bank's chairmanship of the Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCDE); (ii) an active program of economic and sector
work to provide the analytical formulation of our programs and key documentation for the
CGCED; and (iii) a lending program to support policy dialogue and specific country priorities.
The main objective of the Bank Group's Caribbean program is to support a closer integration of
the region in the international economy. It seeks to support a dialogue on the transition faced by
the OECS countries.
1.35   The Bank Group assistance strategy for the OECS is fully integrated in the broader
Caribbean assistance program. The OECS countries receive special attention during the CGCED,
both individually in country sub-group meetings, and as a group. Regional issues are tailored
to the OECS as a group. A special characteristic of our approach in the OECS has been the sub-
regional approach of our involvement, both through lines of credit channeled through the CDB
and for specific regional projects, in view of the relatively high cost of individual operations in
such small countries. In addition, our programs have sought to maximize concessional assistance
through cofinancing.  Over time, CDB has taken over most direct lending operations in
infrastructure as well as country based policy dialogue and economic and sector work. This has
allowed the Bank to redirect resources within the region to support priority investments where
CDB's capacity is still relatively weak, such as in environment, waste management and human
resources development, and in focusing analytical work on key regional issues affecting the
region. Such activities remain closely coordinated with the CDB, however, to progressively
strengthen its capacity in those areas and provide back-up support as required. However, it
should be fully recognized that, because of its relatively small size, the CDB is unlikely to be
able to fully replace the Bank in the Caribbean; hence the programs of the two institutions have
tended to be delineated along comparative advantages, rather than progressive replacement of one
institution by the other.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.36   The proposed project fully supports the CAS, targeting the natural resource management
on which the country's future basically depends. The Government also lacks the technical
capacity to prepare and execute programs in this sector, for which the Bank's experience is seen
as instrumental. Moreover, the Bank's leadership in shaping these programs and attention to their
quality would set the proper framework for subsequent watershed and agricultural investments,
which the EU, UK and CDB have indicated they plan to provide.
2. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Concept
2.1    After launching "Debbie" relief and rescue operations, the Government requested the
Bank to begin preparing a program to help restore the damaged infrastructure. It likewise
stressed the importance of the broader issues discussed in paras. 1.7-1.17: making better use of
land and water resources in order to prevent the recurrence of similar damage in the future, as
well as to advance the achievement of long-term development goals. Based on this two-fold
strategy, the Bank immediately moved to help the authorities organize the proposed project. The
initial identification mission took place in October 1994. The Government and the Bank
mobilized effective aid coordination arrangements for this effort. BDDC funded the consultants
who assisted with project preparation. The Organization of American States (OAS) furnished a
landslide hazards expert for this purpose as well. These tasks were completed in December 1994.



-9-
And on January 11, 1995 IDA approved a PPF of US$1.0 million to initiate timely
implementation of priority rehabilitation civil works.
2.2   It should be noted that the proposed project has modest objectives regarding the inherent
problems. It is not designed to provide complete or optimal protection against the possible
recurrence of severe floods. Such protection can only emerge from possible future investments,
whose plans and pilot operations this project is intended to make available.
B. Objectives
2.3    The proposed project will support three main objectives: (i) to initiate the immediate
rehabilitation of the hydraulic infrastructure of priority watersheds from the damage caused by
the flooding and landslides. These works are intended to reduce the danger to livelihoods and
property. from future flooding; (ii) to address the medium and long term requirements for
sustainable watershed development by preparing a Watershed Management Plan which would
serve as the basis for more integrated, conservation-minded development of key watersheds; and
(iii) to strengthen the Government's capacities in environmental management and flood
preparedness. In reaching these objectives the Government will seek the direct participation of
the population in the project's activities and also attempt to build greater local capacitv for Saint
Lucian professionals to engage in them.
C Project Description
2.4    To achieve the above objectives, the proposed project will finance a two-year program
consisting of the activities summarized below. Total estimated project cost is US$7.1 million.
(a)    Execution of priority river and drainage rehabilitation works, together with
supervisory engineering services for their implementation. Surveys to develop
criteria for future design of improved river wvrks and for hazard rnapping; trials
of methods for arresting soil movements; and the installation of modernized
equipment and related training for improved hydrological data collection and
analysis;
(b)    Preparation of a plan for integrated watershed development, pilot watershed
management projects, and of an institutional development program consistent
with the National Environmental Action Plan fbr implementing these plans and
projects; and
(c)    Design of measures for advancing national enviromnental development and
disaster preparedness.
Rehabilitation Works (Base Costs US$4.98 million)
2.5    This component will deal with the most pressing rehabilitation problems and start
enhanced maintenance of Saint Lucia's flood control and drainage infrastructure by carrying out
priority works during the 1995 dry season. These are identified as river works, with some river
works, with some drainage works, to remove obstructions caused by TSD which could endanger
agriculture, infrastructure and livelihoods in the following wet season. These works will largely
consist of removing boulders and debris deposited in the river beds, desilting their channels,
resectioning river beds to permit safe passage of discharges, and restoring existing or applying
new river training and bank protection works.



-10-
2.6    These will be mainly repair works requiring designs to ensure that they are hydraulically
sound, and that they do not prejudice future riverine management. Appraisal indicated that their
design for the most part should be sufficiently straightforward to be completed rapidly. MOCWT
would be responsible for implementing this component. The works will be supervised on a
design-supervision basis by consulting engineers. The project provides funding for these services
to support MOCWT to ensure appropriate designs for the river works and that they are justified
in social, environmental and financial terms. All the river works will require consultants' review
of their design, respective environmental analysis and proposed mitigation measures prior to
initiation. About 27 person-months of domestic and international consultant services are provided
under this component. Terms of reference for a Resident Engineer and River Engineering
Advisor/Hydrologist have been prepared by MOCWT and approved by the Bank (Annex 2). The
project will also gather technical data through the surveys described below, which will be drawn
for the 1996 resectioning and river bank and bed stabilization works.
2.7    The priority rehabilitation works have been identified by MOCWT and MOAFF and
selected based on priority for protecting life and property and extent of damage. These works
were launched early in 1995 and will continue throughout the year in 11 priority watersheds
(attached map No.26778). The urgency of these works will require a significant effort to
complete most of the civil works before the start of the 1995 wet season. This will ensure that
the objective of protecting life and property is secured. It is estimated that about 75 percent of
the civil works will be completed by end July 1995. The remaining works will continue into the
wet season and would be completed by end March 1996. Further surveys may show the need
to concentrate some project activity in other areas as well, according to criteria agreed at
negotiations (para. 4.1 (a)). In addition, provisions will be made for special 1996 maintenance
because "Debbie"-generated sedimentation will continue for at least another year.
Watershed Management Plan and Disaster Preparedness (Base Cost US$1.10 million)
2.8    This component comprises the studies and institutional support needed for revamping the
management of priority watersheds over the next five years. The studies will identify and design
structural measures such as river training, bank stabilization, and reforestation of steep land.
Non-structural aspects to be considered would be: land use regulations, incentives, building
codes and public participation.  Implementation of the structural measures studied by the
component would be financed by other donors during a follow on phase not included in this
project.
2.9    The studies leading to the preparation of the proposed Watershed Management Plan will
include: (i) review of existing plans, strategies and legislation to consolidate and rationalize this
material in a post TSD context; (ii) collection of hydrological and geomorphological data, and
its analysis to derive criteria for the design of river works and to produce hazard maps; (iii)
developing disaster forecasting and warning systems; (iv) reviewing relevant agricultural, social,
economic, environmental, land tenure and institutional issues to propose strategies and develop
criteria for conservation methods, project selection and public participation; and (v) assessing
implementation procedures, maintenance provisions and institutional arrangements to produce
guidelines for project preparation. In addition, under the component the following activities will
be carried out: (a) surveys of rivers to establish permanent benchmarks and their coordinates
along key rivers; (b) landslide surveys with mapping sufficiently detailed for the later preparation
of hazard maps; (c) trials of hydromet operations; and (d) pilot slope stabilization measures,
testing geosynthetics vs. other materials.
2.10   The final product of this component will be a phased watershed and environmental
management plan for the medium (to the year 2000) and longer term. The plan will contain
recommendations for projects (including a pilot project) for watershed conservation and



-11-
management, land use zoning and legislation and institutional development and strengthening.
The pilot project will examine methods of river stabilization, bank strengthening, river training,
cultivation of steep land, and stabilization of upper slopes and landslide areas. Supplementing
these activities will be the design and testing of land use regulations, incentives and codes
governing construction.
2.11   There also will be undertaken an assessment of how to better coordinate Government and
non-government agencies' activities in watershed management. In this connection, an important
aspect of the component will be advancing the more participatory involvement of Saint Lucians
directly concerned with these developments. Although the Government responded swiftly and
energetically to ease the social problems which "Debbie" created, it could still deal with citizens'
concerns in a more planned, organized manner. It recognizes that the future changes in a revised
watershed management plan will depend on altering peoples' attitudes and traditional land use
practices. Therefore, under this component, the project will include a Participation Program
(Annex 2) which will provide for surveying stakeholders' opinions, and the establishment of
consultative and informational activities to involve them in the design and execution of watershed
area changes.  Such consultation requirements will also be included in the plans for the
rehabilitation works and slope stabilization trials.
2.12   TSD  also showed that Saint Lucia was unprepared to deal with such events
notwithstanding the frequency of tropical storms. There need to be around-the-clock forecasting
and public warning systems. Also, flood proofing of buildings in vulnerable areas has not been
fully explored. The authorities thus see this occasion as an appropriate opportunity to examine
more adequate preparedness and preventive systems. Specialized consulting services will be
provided, therefore, to review existing climatic and hydrological monitoring, flood and storm
forecasting. Should the consultant find that equipment and/or training are needed to strengthen
the Government's technical capacity, that individual will also assist in arrangements for their
procurement. In addition, the consultant will help the Government consider the use of codes
which enhance flood-resistant and earthquake-proof building designs.
2.13   While the public administration includes well qualified technical and managerial staff,
they are too few in number to discharge fully the responsibilities of such large scale programs
as the watershed and environmental management endeavor proposed. To address this problem
and to develop local consultancy capacity the proposed project will finance a study to assess the
local consulting capabilities, explore OECS business and Government demand for such skills, and
define an action plan.
2.14   Some 40 person-months of consultant services will be employed for this component.
Draft terms of reference have been prepared (Annex 3) and will be discussed and agreed during
negotiations. It also will entail the purchase of computer and specialized equipment such as
hydromet instruments to be installed in 17 river catchments and vehicles for the teams expected
to carry out the several studies and other assignments.
D. Implementation Arrangements
2.15   An Inter Ministerial Committee (IMC) has been established under the chairmanship of
the Permanent Secretary of MOPDE to provide direction of project implementation. It includes
representatives of MOCWT and of MOALFF's Engineering Services Division (AESD)
responsible respectively for the civil works, and for the drainage and watershed management
planning operations. This inter-ministerial committee meets biweekly to review implementation
performance and resolve project problems. The MOPDE will act as overall coordinator for the
project and will be responsible for managing the project's accounts. In addition, it will be
responsible for the activities regarding environmental policy, disaster preparedness, and the



-12-
studies of improved sector coordination framework and expanded domestic consultant capacity.
It also will provide advice on the activities relating to any possible resettlement of affected
populations and their more systematic participation in project operations. To this effect, MOPDE
has already established a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which includes a project manager, a
chief accountant and a procurement officer. This staffing will be maintained throughout the
project (para. 4.1 (b)).
2.16   The Rehabilitation Works component will be implemented by MOCTW. For this purpose
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has already been established under the direction of
MOCWT's Chief Engineer, and is overseeing implementation of priority works financed under
the PPF advance. The PIU includes a design/supervision team comprising of a consultant
element: a resident engineer, a river engineering adviser, and a local counterpart team consisting
of a civil engineer and two works supervisors. The PIU is responsible for the procurement and
contracting of all civil works. Under the project it will coordinate with MOALFF in the
preparation of the Watershed Management Plan and in the implementation of the Participation
Program.
2.17   The Watershed Management Plan component will be the responsibility of the PIU
established for this purpose in the MOALFF under the direction of the Senior Agriculture
Engineer. The PIU staff will consist of a multi disciplinary team from a consulting firm which
will include: a Water Resources Planner, a Geomorphologist/Geotechnical Engineer, a River
Engineer/Hydrologist, an Environmentalist and Resettlement Specialist. Draft terms of reference
(Annex 2) for the specialists of the two main tasks ("design and supervision" of the rehabilitation
works, and the watershed management planning) have been prepared by the Government and
approved by the Bank.
E. Costs and Financing
Project Costs
2.18   Total baseline project costs have been estimated at US$6.1 million.   Physical
contingencies (US$0.68 million equivalent), at 15 percent on the rehabilitation works of total
baseline costs, and price contingencies (US$0.30 million equivalent) represent 5 percent of project
total baseline cost, and are based on the following assumptions: (i) a local inflation rate of 3.6
percent in 1995, and 3.0 percent per year thereafter; and (ii) prices increases for foreign costs,
estimated in US dollars, of 3.3 percent in 1995 and 2.7 percent for the remaining two years of
project execution. Cost calculations assume a nominal, constant exchange rate of EC $2.7 to
US$1 for the two-year project execution period. Project costs, including the activities financed
under the US$1.0 million PPF Advance, are detailed in Table 1.



-13-
Table 1 - Project Cost Sumnmary
(US$ thousand)
Components                          Local   Foreign    Total    %
1. REHABILITATION WORKS
River training, debris clearing*                    696     1,043    1,739     25.0
Resectioning, bank stabilization
drains' cleaning, desilting*                        765     1,362    2,127      31.0
Unassigned 1996 works                               209       312      521       8.0
Subtotal                                      1,670    2,717    4,387      64.0
Vehicles (4)*                                         0        64       64         -
TA for Engineering Services                          80       451      531      7.0
Rehabilitation Total                          1,750    3,232    4,982      73.0
11. WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PLANNING
A. Studies and Equipment
River surveys                                   13        32      45          -
Landslide surveys                               12       26        38
Hydromet equipment                              24       132      156      2.0
Slope stabilization methods                     61        58      119      2.0
Subtotal                                     110      248      358       5.0
B. Planning and Project Preparation                 44       551      595       9.0
C. Disaster Prevention and Participation            20       13.0     150       2.0
Watershed Management Total                    174       929    1,103        18
Total Project Base Cost                                1,924    4.161    6.085      89.0
Physical contingencies (15%)                       235       476      711      12.0
Price Contingencies (5%)                            96       208      304       5.0
TOT1'AL                                               2,255     4,845    7,100     100.0
* Partially financed by the PPF (US$1.0 million)
Proposed Financing
2.19    A  Bank loan of US$2.65 million equivalent and an IDA  Credit of SDR  1.7 million
(US$2.65 million equivalent) will finance 75 percent of total project costs, net of taxes and
duties.   The  combined  IBRD/IDA  financing  will cover 92  percent of foreign  exchange
expenditures and 39 percent of local costs. The relatively high proportion of Bank Group
financing is justified by the "emergency" character of the civil works (the most costly component)
and the heavy burden of the "Debbie" reconstruction expenses on Government finances over the
next several years. Further, Saint Lucia's small economy and large dependence on imports make
for relatively high foreign exchange proportions of total costs. The Government will finance
US$1.3 million equivalent to 18 percent of total project cost. The BDDC has agreed with the



-14-
Government to co-finance engineering services for the rehabilitation works, entailing US$0.5
million or seven percent of total projects. Table 2 proviles a summary of the project financing
plan. At negotiations, Government assurances were obtained that as a condition of effectiveness
the Government will submit confirmation that adequate funding has been included in the 1996
budget for the first year's counterpart requirements, and that it has deposited in a project account
an amount estimated to cover the first four months of implementation costs (para 4.2).
2.20   Retroactive financing of up to US$0.79 million equivalent (15 percent of the Loan/Credit)
will be permitted for civil works-related expenditures incurred after January 1, 1995 up through
the date of signing of the Loan and Credit. This exception to the standard limits albeit less than
the 20 percent authorized for emergency recovery operations is considered justified to facilitate
the prompt execution of the time-sensitive rehabilitation activities (para. 4.1 (c)).
Table 2 - Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign       Total       % of Total
IBRD/IDA                   0.9          4.4          5.3           75
U.K. Grant                 0.1          0.4          0.5            7
Government                  1.3                      1.3            18
Total Financing          2.3         4.8          7.1           100
F. Procurement
2.21   During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that the procurement
of works, goods and services will be carried out in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines
(January 1995) and the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants By World Bank Borrowers (August
1981).  Also at the time of negotiations, agreement was reached on the use of standard
procurement documents for national competitive bidding (NCB), acceptable to the Bank (4.1 (d)).
Civil Works
2.22   Civil works to be procured with project financing (expected. to total US$5.3 million
equivalent, including contingencies) consists of infrastructure rehabilitation and repair and of
clean up works (mainly desilting) of rivers and streams. Works will be small in size and located
in 11 different watersheds. Grouping of contracts for priority works has been done according
to the type of rehabilitation work. About 75 percent of the planned 20 contracts are estimated
to cost less than US$100,000. Thus, it is unlikely that they would attract foreign firms. The
project appraisal concluded that local works contractors have adequate capacity to fulfill the
project tasks, and that small contracts with these firms will be the most efficient method of
implementation.
2.23   At the same time, the appraisal found that implementing agencies have limited experience
in carrying out the most demanding procurement procedures. Their methods may thus be
inadequate to ensure the most efficient acquisition, especially of the civil works. Steps have,
therefore, been taken to try to avert possible problems in this project. MOCWT's implementation
unit responsible for the civil works is being supported and advised by a well known international



-15-
engineering firm (financed by the UK), which has performed satisfactorily in this role on other
projects in Saint Lucia. One of their staff, serving effectively as the "resident engineer", handles
letting the contracts, supervising them  and their accounting.  A second team member, an
experienced river engineer, supervises the hydraulic design of river works and approves site
designs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that both the consulting engineer and the river
engineer have been employed under terms and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.1
(e)).
2.24   Because of the urgency of some works (para. 2.7), it was also agreed that civil works
which are required to respond to the immediate danger of future flooding that threatens lives and
property, and aggregating to an amount equivalent to US$1,302,000, may be procured by direct
contracting which may be awarded on the basis of lump sum, fixed price contracts based on an
hourly rate established in accordance with the list of prevailing rates utilized by MOCWT for
equipment rental, or on the basis of contracts entered into on an hourly rate based on official
hourly rates. Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more per contract,
but less than the equivalent of US$400,000 per contract, may be procured on the basis of national
competitive bidding procedures (in accordance with paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement
Guidelines) using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. All designs and bidding
documents for rehabilitation works will require review by the project's Resident Engineer prior
to the initiation of such works (para.2.6). The Resident Engineer will also be required to present
certification that the work was satisfactorily completed and that the procurement procedures
specified in the legal agreements were followed in the selection of contractors.  Such
documentation would be maintained for review by IBRD/IDA supervision missions (para. 4.1
(e)).
Equipment, Vehicles and Materials for Civil Works
2.25   Specialized hydromet equipment (rain gauges and rainfall recorders) expected to cost
US$200,000 (including contingencies) will be awarded on the basis of Limited International
Bidding (LIB) in view of the small number of potential suppliers. Purchase of four vehicles for
project units expected to cost US$67,000 (including contingencies) will be procured through
international shopping procedures, among manufacturers with established dealerships with repair
facilities (and/or spare parts inventories) in Saint Lucia. Gabion baskets for civil works up to an
aggregate amount of US$400,00 (including contingencies) may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures. Stones for civil works, up to an
aggregate amount of US$400,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures. The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods will be used
for procurement of hydromet equipment and gabion baskets under LIB.
Technical Assistance
2.26   Technical assistance (expected to total US$1.6 million) for engineering services,
watershed management planning and the disaster preparedness study will be procured according
to Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. For contracts with consulting firms or NGOs not
involving assignments of critical nature, costing less than US$50,000 and contracts with
individual consultants below US$25,000, the Bank will require prior review of the terms of
reference only. Contracts with values higher than these amounts will be subject to the Bank's
prior review.
2.27   Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the project engineer will: (i) certify
that the bidding procedure and bid evaluation are consistent with IBRD guidelines; and (ii) report
independently to the Planning Ministry and the Bank on implementation progress (particularly its
quality) bimonthly until August 1995, and quarterly thereafter (para. 4.01 (e)). As an additional



-16-
measure to help overcome the inexperience of the implementing agencies, arrangements have
been made to have the MOCWT and AESD staff participate in the Bank's "project launch"
workshop for the recently approved Basic Education Reform Project, scheduled for this spring.
2.28   Prior review by the Bank/IDA will apply to LIB, and to the first two NCB procurement
of works, independent of value. The following table shows proposed procurement arrangements:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Thousand)
Item                              NCB           Other        NBF       Total
bl
Civil Works                        2162          1302 a/      1300      4764
(2162)       (1302)                 (3464)
Equipment, Vehicles &
Materials for Civil Works                        684 c/                 684
(684)                  (684)
Technical Assistance                             1152 d/     500        1652
(1152)                 (1152)
Total                              2162          3138         1800      7100
(2162)       (3138)                  (5300)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IBRD and IDA
a/ Includes hcal shopping
b/ Nor financed by the Bank.
cl Includes:  (10 inertalioial shbping (US5467,0.)  and (ii) LIB (USS217.f0)
d/ Serices procured urnder Guidelines for the Use of Comsultants by World Bank Borrowrs.
G. Disbursements
2.29   The proposed Loan and Credit operation will be disbursed over a two year period. It is
expected to be completed by December 31,1996 and closed by June 30, 1997. Table 4 shows
the disbursement forecast for the Loan and Credit, by semester and by financier. A Special
Account, with an Authorized Allocation of US$0.5 million, will be set up in a commercial bank
of Saint Lucia to facilitate project disbursements, however, the initial deposit will be limited to
US$250,000 until disbursements have reached US$2.6 million. The proceeds of the Credit and
Loan would be disbursed as follows: (a) civil works, 75 percent of total expenditures; (b) goods
and equipment, 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported goods, 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75 percent of other items procured locally; technical assistance:
100 percent of consultant services. Retroactive financing of up to US$0.79 million equivalent
will be provided to help cover civil works-related expenditures incurred after January 1, 1995.
Disbursement is expected to commence immnediately at Loan and Credit effectiveness with
disbursement for retroactive financing and the initial disbursement into the project Special
Account. The Special Account will be managed by the Project Coordinating Unit of the MOPDE
with all disbursement made under the authorized signatures of the MOPDE and in accordance
with Bank policies and procedures.
2.30   Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by MOPDE's PCU will be furnished for
expenditures made for goods, works and consultants' services costing less than the equivalent of:



-17-
(i) US$25,000 in the case of goods; (ii) $250,000 in the case of works (other than the first two
contracts which will require prior review); (iii) US$50,000 in the case of consulting firms'
services; and US$25,000 in the case of individual consultants' services.   Supporting
documentation for these latter expenditures will be retained by the PCU, and be readily available
for review by Bank and IDA supervision missions.
Table 3 - Disbursement by Category
ALLOCATION          ALLOCATION
CATEGORY                   IDA                 IBRD             FINANCING
SDR               (US$000)                 %
1. Civil Works                650,000               1,010                 75%
2. Goods and Equipment         70,000                110           100 % of foreign
expenditures, 100 % of
local expenditures (ex-
factory costs) and 75%
of other items procured
locally
3. Technical Assistance        340,000               540                   100
4. Refunding of Project        640,000                                 Amount due
Preparation Advance
5. Unallocated                                       990
Total for all Categories      1,700,000             2,650
Table 4 - Estinated Bank and IDA Disbursement
(US$ million)
Bank/IDA Financial Year    1996  1997
Annual                      2.0   3.3
Cumulative                  2.0   5.3
H. Accounting and Audit
2.31   The country's financial management system is highly centralized, with the Minister of
Finance responsible for general financial control over the entire executive branch.  Under
Cr./2676-SLU/Ln.3837-SLU the existing financial system in the executive branch will be
strengthened in the areas of accounting, budgeting and planning and debt management. This will
include staff training in auditing and the establishment of computerized systems. Although the
Government Audit Department has the required independence to meet audit requirements, it was
agreed at negotiations that independent auditors will be used for this project until this Department
can be adequately strengthened.
2.32   Each of the Ministries participating in the project (MOPDE, MOALFF, and MOCWT)
will set up separate project accounts and each PIU will prepare monthly statements of



-18-
expenditures. The MOPDE will be responsible for preparing and submitting disbursement
applications for the entire project expenditures. Annual audit of all project accounts, including
the Special Account, will be undertaken by an independent auditor.  Audit reports will be
submitted to the Bank and Association not later than four months after the end of each of the
Borrower's fiscal year (March 31) under TORs satisfactory to the Bank and IDA. Assurances
in this regard were obtained at negotiations (para. 4.1 (f)).
I. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
2.33   The MOPDE will have overall responsibility for Project Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E), however, each of the PIU will be responsible for M&E of their respective component
and will report their progress to the MOPDE. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
consolidated progress reports will be prepared by MOPDE's PCU and submitted to the Bank and
IDA every six months (September 30 and March 31). The March 31 report will include detailed
work program, implementation schedule and budget estimate for the following year.  At
negotiations agreement was reached on the above and on the performance indicators and targets
to be included in the Project Implementation Plan (para. 4.1 (g) (h)).
2.34   After the project is completed MOPDE will prepare an Implementation Completion
Report to be submitted to the Bank within six months thereafter.
J. Environmnental Impact
2.35   The rehabilitation works are not expected to have significant sustained negative
environmental effects, particularly as these investments are for rehabilitating existing
infrastructure.  The project has been assigned a "B" environmental classification.  Some
temporary impacts, however, have been identified (e.g., transitional increases in river sediment
loads until desilting is completed). Provisions will therefore be made for appropriate project
construction safeguards to minimize their adverse effects.  Project specific environmental
guidelines acceptable to the Bank will be used by the Borrower to identify and address potential
problems.   The project consulting engineers will be responsible for ensuring that an
environmental analysis is carried out as part of the design of all civil works, and that
recommended mitigatory measures are enforced during works execution (para. 2.6).
2.36   In addition, the project should have far reaching positive effects such as preventing
further loss of land and affording greater security from river movements and erosion than
residents now enjoy. Further, the watershed management plans will address the adverse effects
of current deforestation and cultivation practices in the priority agricultural areas. In tandem with
these, the consultants engaged to prepare these plans will also recommend amendments to existing
laws and regulations to achieve more sustainable watershed management in the country. They
will also be charged with proposing actions to rationalize institutional arrangements for
environmental coordination in Saint Lucia. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government will review with the Bank by July 30, 1996 the consultants' recommendations
for legislative and institutional changes to implement the watershed management plan, and
subsequently take agreed actions resulting from this review (para. 4.1 (i)).
2.37   The project's appraisal determined that it is unlikely the rehabilitation works would lead
to any voluntary or involuntary movement of affected residents from  their areas.  The
Government recruited two OAS consultants in mid 1995 to carry out a quick assessment of the
six most vulnerable storm-affected areas where potential safety risks due to previous Debbie
damage may exist (such as weakened house foundations and landslide hazard) to determine
actions required to preserve the physical well being of families residing in these areas and of the
integrity of their housing facilities. The Government will inform IDA and the Bank in case that



-19-
the quick assessment reveals re.ocation of any number of residents would be necessary, and
indicates the proposed solutions and informed consent of the affected people. Agreement in this
regard was reached during negotiations (para. 4.01 (j)). In addition, the Government recognizes
that future watershed management changes may entail the relocation of some area residents.
Which areas will be affected and how many households might require relocation will be
determined by the Watershed Management Plan to be prepared under the project. Based on the
recommendations of the Plan, it will be necessary for the Government to develop an appropriate
resettlement policy well in advance. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government will define and promulgate by July 30, 1996, an appropriate resettlement policy to
support its watershed management plan (para. 4.1 (j)).
3. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
3.1    The project will help lessen the probability of further severe flood damage and maintain
Saint Lucia's natural resource base. It will also enhance St. Lucia's capability to react to future
severe flooding by preparing valuable monitoring systems and strengthening the institutions
involved, and by developing measures to lessen the causes of flooding (e.g., landslides).
B. Risks
3.2    The project can not provide assurance of lasting flood protection unless the land use
practice of the rural population is permanently altered. The proposed Watershed Management
Plan to be prepared under the project will address this issue and recommend solutions. In the
conduct of the project, there are two main risks: (a) time and cost overruns could result from
natural climatic conditions affecting project works; or (b) inadequate management and control of
the project because of limited technical experience of the government in operations of this kind.
Accordingly, the civil works component will consist of short-term, proven operations in order
to avert unduly complicated, lengthy undertakings. In addition, the division of responsibilities
between the Works and Agriculture Ministries and the steps taken to put expert consultants in
place should facilitate effective project execution. The availability of the PPF advance for
gearing the Government up to the task early on should likewise contribute to lessening these
difficulties.
4. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
4.1    During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the following:
(a)    criteria for selecting civil works in areas other than priority watersheds will
consider aspects such as:  protection of life and property, maintenance of
agricultural food production, effect on land use and overall impact on the national
economy (para. 2.7);
(b)   the Borrower will maintain the PCU staffed at all times with at least a project
manager, an accountant to manage the Project Account and the Special Account
and a procurement officer (para. 2.15);
(c)    retroactive financing of up to US$0.79 million equivalent (15 percent of the
Loan/Credit) will be permitted for civil works-related expenditures incurred after



-20-
January 1, 1995 if the PPF advance results insufficient to finance priority civil
works up through the date of signing of the Loan and Credit (para. 2.20);
(d)    the procurement of works, goods and services will be carried out in accordance
with Bank Procurement Guidelines, and that standard national competitive
bidding (NCB) documents, acceptable to the Bank will be used (para. 2.21);
(e)    the Borrower will have the consulting resident engineer employed to assist in
execution of the civil works component: (i) certify that the bidding and bid
evaluation procedures used in the rehabilitation works were consistent with
Bank/IDA Guidelines and that the work was satisfactorily completed; and (ii)
report independently to the Planning Ministry and the Bank on implementation
progress bimonthly until August 1995, and quarterly thereafter.  Both the
consulting engineer and the river engineer will be employed under terms and
conditions and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.23, 2.24 and 2.27);
(f)    that the project's accounts will be audited annually by an independent auditor,
and that audit reports will be submitted to the Bank and IDA no later that four
months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 2.32);
(g)    that consolidated progress reports will be submitted to the Bank and IDA every
six months (September 30 and March 31) and that the March 31 report will
include detailed work program, implementation schedule and budget estimate for
the following year (para. 2.33);
(h)    the performance  indicators and  targets to be included  in the project
implementation plan (2.33);
(i)    that the Government will review with the Bank by July 30, 1996 the consultants'
proposed legislative and institutional changes for improved watershed
management, and subsequently take agreed actions resulting from this review
(para. 2.36); and
(j)    that the Government will advise the Bank in cases where relocation would occur
and will define and issue by July 30, 1996 an appropriate resettlement policy if
necessary to support its Watershed Management Plan (para. 2.37);
4.2    Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that prior to Loan and Credit
Effectiveness the Government submit confirmation that adequate funding has been included in the
1996 budget for the first year's counterpart requirements, and that it has deposited in a project
account an amount estimated to cover the first four months implementation costs (para. 2.19).
B. Recommendation
4.3    Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project will be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$2.65 million equivalent and a Credit of SDR 1.7 million (US$2.65 million
equivalent) to Saint Lucia.



-21-                                             ANNEX I
SAINT LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Plan and Key Indicators
Expected                                      Start Date               Entity
Action                 Result             Key Indicators                                  Responsible
Request PPF              Approval         Counersigned               January 27/95             MOPDE
Letter                         Done
Open Special             Initiate                Initial              February/95              MOPDE
Account              Disbursement      IDA/IBRD Deposit                Done
Establish          PUs Operational          Staff in Place          February/95              MOPDE
Project Units                                                            Done
Prepare TORs for        Initiate Recruitment   Consultants in Place       February/95              MOPDE
Consultiug Engineers         Process                                         Done
Initiate Contractirig      Start Repair         Number of Works            Marchl95           MOPDE/MOCWT
for Petty Contacts         Civil Works             Completed               Underway
of Repair Works
Prepare TORs for         Recruit Hydromet        Adviser in Place           July/95           MOALFF/MOCWT
Hydromet Adviser             Adviser
Prepare Specifica-         Invitation for          Bid Award                July/95           MOALFF\MOCWT
tions for Hydromet       Price Quotations
Equipment and
Instruments
Prepare Specifica-        Invitanon for            Bid Award                July/95           MOALFF\MOCWT
uons                        Proposals
for: (i) benchmark
and river surveys;
(ii) hydromet data
collection system;and
(iii) pilot land slope
specification.
MNinistry of Finance   Condition of Cr./Ln.     Deposit in Project          June/95                MOPDE
apprval of 1995/96         Effecuiveness            Account
budget for counter-
part project funds
and deposit in project
account amount
estimated to cover
first four months of
execution costs
Apptoval of contract-   Complete rehabilita-    Number of contacts          July\95           MOPDE/MOCWT
mg of balance of      tion works               executed
civil works
Request proposals      Contractirng of study.   Expecied outputs:           July/95           MOPDE/MOALFF
for preparation of                            (i) WMP;
Watershed Manage-                             (ii) Pilot WMP;
ment Plan (WMP)                               (iii) WM Project:
(iv) Policy proposal;
and (v) Institutional
Development Pro-
gram



-22-                                              ANNEX 1
SAINT LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Plan and Key Indicators
Expected                                       Start Date               Entity
Action                 Result              Key Indicators                                   Responsible
Complee remaining           Compleed           Program completion           January/96              MOCWT
rehabilitation civil   Rehabilitation Works
works                  Flood prevention
WMP                    Review with             agreed changes              July 30, 1996             MOPDE
recommendations for    Bank/IDA
legal and institutional
changes
Resettlement plan for    Define Policy         Promulgation of             July 30, 1996             MOPDE
WMP                                            Policy
Monitor efficacy of     Updated maintenance    Carrying capacity of        August 1995              MOCWT
civil works to control   and rehabilitation    river channels in
and/or to diminish     program.                relation to normal
flood incidence                                river flow
Monitor flooding of    Indication of             Land area flooded,        August 1995         MOALFF/MOCWT
land under food and    additional river        value of crops lost
export crops           training and/or bank
stabilization
Determine              Recommendations         Land slides, soil       After each storm        MOALFF/MOCWT
environmental impact   regarding land use      erosion, river water    occurrence
resulting from storm-    management,           pollution
caused flooding and    agricultural practices
landslides



-23-                      Annex z
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PRIORITY CIVIL WORKS
1.   PREAMBLE
Tropical Storm Debbie (TSD) passed over St. Lucia during the early hours of
September 1 0, 1 994, causing extensive damage to the country. Continuous intensive
rainfall resulted in widespread flooding, massive landslides, sediment transportation
and runoffs. Rivers overflowed their banks, flooding adjacent agricultural land and
urban areas, particularly, those situated near the mouth of the rivers.
Even protected riverbanks were eroded, threatening roads and private property;
bridges and culverts were washed away and sediment was deposited on the banks
and in the riverbed, obstructing the natural flow of the river.
In the immediate period after the storm, the Government of St. Lucia embarked upon
a programme of reconstruction to repair the damage caused by the storm.
Part of this programme involves the desilting and retraining of the major rivers. It is
imperative that obstructions to river channels be removed during this current dry
season January - July, 1 995 to avoid further threat to human life, economic and
social infrastructure. The programme comprises the following components:
Removal of boulders, stones, finer material and debris deposited in the
river bed;
Resectioning of river beds, so that "design" discharges can be passed
safely; and
Restoring existing and/or applying new river training and bank protection
works.



-24-
2.   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
An Interministerial Committee (IMC) comprising the Ministries of Planning,
Agriculture, and Communications, Works and Transport has been formed to co-
ordinate this project.
The Ministry of Planning will be the Central Co-ordinating Ministry with its
Permanent Secretary as Chairman of the IMC.
During the initial stages of the project, fortnightly meetings of the IMC will be
held and then monthly, as the project continues.
The priority works component involving clearing, desilting, resectioning, bank
strengthening, and minor training will be executed on a design/construct basis
by a design/supervision team.
This team, comprising two consultancy attachments; a river engineering adviser
and a resident engineer, together with a local civil engineer, two works
supervisors and other technical staff as needed from the Ministry of Works will
form the Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU), responsible for execution of all
priority works. The PCU will act on behalf of and report to the Chief Engineer,
Ministry of Communications, Works and Transport.
3.   THE PROJECT
The Saint Lucia Watershed and Environmental Project is concerned with rehabilitation
and reconstruction of major river channels following TSD, and with medium and long
term measures for sustainable environmental watershed development. It comprises:
Phase I    -    The construction of priority river and drainage works; and
the preparation of Terms of References for benchmark, river
and hydrological surveys.
Implementing the above listed surveys.-
-    Conducting a social survey in areas which may require
relocation of individuals; implementing a public relations
programme to inform the inhabitants in all targeted areas.
These Terms of Reference relate solely to the priority river works under Phase 1,



-25-
hereinafter referred to as "the Project".
4.   TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT TEAM
4.1
The assignment is to ensure that the design and implementation of the
programme of priority works, to be implemented during the remaining six
months of the 1 995 dry season (February - August), be.carried out on a design-
construct basis; that sound rules will be observed for tendering of the works,
for quality assurance of the works during construction and for accounting of
the completed works.
4.2  Scope of Work
The Consultant Team shall manage all aspects of the program of priority
works. They shall act as "The Engineer" on behalf of the Chief Engineer
MOCWT (CE-MOCWT), in dealing with contractors and/or suppliers. The duties
of the Consultant Team shall include, but not necessarily be limited to the
following subjects:
-    Preparation of works, design of prioritized river and drainage works.
-    Construction management;
-    Assess and monitor the potential environmental impacts of the priority
works; implement mitigative measures.
-    Training
-    Reporting
4.3  Obligations Of the Consultants
Without necessarily limiting the duties of the Consultant, obligations will
include:
Preparation of Works
4.3.1      The works are to be designed and implemented under the program
for priority works, as far as available data and information go, in
conformity with sound principles of river engineering.



-26-
The  Consultants  shall  critically  review  the  list  of
priority works included in Table 2.1 hereto. They shall satisfy
themselves that the listed works have justifiably been included in
the programme and that the programme as a whole is realistic for
implementation within the first 6 months of 1995. They shall also
verify the quantities involved, as well as the unit rates applied.
They shall advise the CE-MOCWT about any changes deemed
necessary.
At the same time they shall prepare designs in outline for the
priority works, following the priority ranking according to Table
2.1 and submit these for approval of the CE-MOCWT/Senior
Agricultural Engineer -Ministry Of Agriculture Forestry and
Fisheries (SAE-MOAFF). Detailed designs, as far as deemed
necessary may be completed during the progress of the work.
The described activities shall be completed within 4 weeks after
the signing of the contract by the Consultants.
4.3.2      Environmental Monitoring
The consultant will be responsible for ensuring that adequate
measures are in place to predict and monitor potential
environmental impacts of the priority works. The primary issue
should relate to dumping of spoil and to undue transport of
suspended sediment that could result from agitating the river
bottoms during excavation.
4.3.3      Construction Manaaement
Management of the program of works includes, control of time,
quality of the works and costs. The Consultants shall perform all
activities that are needed to manage the project effectively.
As an instrument for the control of time the consultants shall
submit for approval of the CE-MOCWT a detailed schedule for
design and implementation of all works included in the agreed
programme. They shall keep record of the progress of the works,
ensuring that no major delays will occur. If necessary, they shall
advise the CE-MOCWT to accelerate the works, specifying all
measures deemed appropriate in this respect, including the
number and qualifications of MOCWT-staff attached to the



-27-
project.
At the request of the CE-MOCWT the Consultants shall participate
in activities that will be initiated to obtain the support of the public
for the Project and shall provide all necessary information to make
such activities effective. They shall liaise with local authorities
regarding the works to be implemented and assist in obtaining
right of way, as necessary for the planned progress of the works.
They shall also liaise with the utility authorities with respect to
public utilities affected by the work and arrange for their diversion
as necessary.
The Consultants in collaboration with the CE-MOCWT shall
prepare a list of contractors/suppliers who are considered eligible
for implementing the works and prepare a list of proposed
contractors/suppliers for each of the individual works. They shall
also prepare a standard structure for tender documents for use for
the program of works. Once these have been approved by the
CE-MOCWT, they shall prepare specific tender documents and a
list of contractors/suppliers to be invited, for each of the individual
works. They shall assist the CE-MOCWT in tender reviews,
contract negotiations and awards.
In drawing up the tender documents the Consultants shall give
special attention to the requirement to implement the works with
the least disturbances to the environment.
The Consultants are responsible for setting out the works.
They shall set up, maintain and arrange for audit of quality
assurance procedures for office and site operations. They shall
supervise the implementation of the works, including quality
control measures, as construction proceeds, ensuring strict
adherence to the tender documents.
The consultants are responsible for the measurement of the works
and for the issue of certificates for contractor's payment. They
are authorized to issue variation orders for any additions and
alterations that they decide to be necessary. They shall make
payments to contracts in accordance with relevant procedures
agreed with the CE-MOCWT, preparing regular reviews of costs
incurred and still expected, measured against the agreed cost
estimates.



-28-
The consultants shall give their final approval of the works
decided and on the resolution of final accounts. In dealing with
claims of contractors/suppliers they shall make recommendations
to the CE-MOCWT for actions in this respect.
The Consultants shall prepare as-built drawings and prepare a list
of recommended routine and periodic maintenance activities to be
undertaken for actions in this respect.
4.3.4      Training
In performing their duties, the Consultants shall work in close
cooperation with staff of MOAFF/MOCWT, to be attached to the
consultants and shall provide on-the-job training to this staff,
arranging for them to receive a broad range of experience of the
project work.
Unless the Consultant provides evidence to the contrary., it is
assumed that the following staff, to be provided by MOCWT and
MOAFF, will enable the Consultant to perform their specified
duties in a professional manner:
Civil Engineer
2 Works Supervisors
Other local technical staff as deemed necessary.
4.3.5      Reportinq
The consultants are required to produce the following reports:
-    Inception Report - Within 4 weeks after signing the
contract, the consultants, shall submit their Inception
Report, describing i.a:
-    Mobilization progress, establishment procedures.
-    The works accepted for the final program, including
quantification and updated cost estimate.
-    Outline time schedule for the entire program and a detailed
schedule for the first 3 months.



-29-
Outline cash flow for the entire program and a detailed cash
flow for the first month.
Perceived constraints to progress with suggestion for
resolving them.
Monthly Report - The monthly report shall include:
Itemized progress of the work, details on contracts placed,
contracts completed, physical and financial progress etc; with
reference to any environmental mitigation measures deemed
necessar y.
Final Report -    At the end of work the consultant shall submit his
final report, which will:
Itemize all completed work as well as any work still outstanding,
with proposal how to deal with the latter.
Details on expenditures, in relation to the agreed project budgets.
Recommendations on routine (annual) maintenance of completed
works.
Any recommendations on the preparation, implementation and
management of further works.
4.3.6      Other Obligations
The Consultants shall make their own arrangements for
accommodation.
4.4  Qualifications of the Consultant Team
(a)   Resident Engineer/Proiect Manager
The Resident Engineer/Project Manager to be appointed should have a



-30-
solid experience in the management of engineering works, including the
design and implementation of river works. He/she should be conversant
with the preparation of tender documents and with tender procedures
and subsequent awarding and operating of the contract. Having in
addition experience with competitive local bidding procedures,
particularly for petty contracts would be an advantage. The Consultant
should be endowed with sufficient authority to execute effectively the
duties assigned to him/her.
(b)   River Engineer
The river engineer to be appointed should have a proper understanding
of river hydraulics and morphological processes. He/she should have
practical experience in the design and implementation of river works,
enabling him/her to participate actively in efforts that aim at an expedient
implementation of the proposed program of works. He/she should have
sufficient understanding of hydrology and of the collection and analysis
of hydrological data and also have a sound judgement on costs and
benefits of the works proposed for implementation.
4.5  Duration of the Assignment
The assignment will initially be for a duration of 6 months, starting in
February 1 995. Depending on the progress that can be made during that
period and on the prevailing weather conditions, the assignment may be
staggered or extended.
If the Government of St. Lucia decides that similar works should
continue during the dry season of 1996, it is expected that design and
supervision can be carried out by MOCWT staff, who have been trained
in 1 995. However, a further extension of the consultants' services may
be negotiated with them.
4.6  Obligations of the Government of St.Lucia
The Government of St.Lucia undertakes to provide through MOCWT the
following support to the Project at its own expense:



-31-
Assign the above specified staff to the project during the full
duration of the engagement of the Consultant. If the Consultant
provides evidence that the number or qualifications of the
assigned does not meet the requirement for satisfactory progress
of the works, the CE-MOCWT/SAE-MOAFF will within reasonable
limits meet the demands of the Consultants by appointing
different and/or additional staff.
Compensate land owners for damaged crops,
Purchase of lands where necessary.
Office space for the Consultant and the staff assigned to him.
Furthermore the Government of St.Lucia undertakes:
Duty free import by the Consultant of professional instruments
and equipment needed for the project and prompt re-exportation
upon completion of the assignment.
Exemption from any tax on income.
Prompt payment of the invoices of the Consultant. Any questions
about some items in the invoices will not delay payment of
undisputed items.



-32-
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE WATERSHED
MANAGEMENT PLAN AND PARTICIPATION PROGRAM
INTRODUCTION
The Saint Lucia Watershed and Environmental Management Project (the Project) is concemed
with rehabilitation and reconstruction following tropical storm Debbie (TSD), and with medium
and long term measures for sustainable environmental watershed development. The Project
comprises:
Phase I     the construction of priority river and drainage works; and
- carrying out hydrological and geomorphological surveys, installing hydromet
equipment and initiating slope stabilization trials (this part of the Project will be
the responsibility of the Phase 2 consultancy.
Phase 2    - preparing a watershed management plan, designing a pilot project, preparing
watershed management projects and formulating an institutional development
program.
The project concept is shown in Figure 14. The executing agency for Phase 2 will be the
Ministry of Planning, Development and the Environment (MOPDE) of the Government of St
Lucia (GOSL). The Project will be coordinated by the World Bank and technical assistance for
Phase 2 will be provided by ------------ -
The consultancy services for Phase 2 (the Services) are to be provided by a suitably qualified
intemational firm of consultants (the Consultant).
THE PROJECT
Following TSD on September 9/10 1994, GOSL requested assistance from the World Bank to
prepare a reconstruction program and propose longer term measures for sustainable watershed
management. The project was identified and formulated by GOSL and a World Bank mission in
early November 1994. Further formulation and preparation were carried out by a team of
consultants appointed by the World Bank with Technical Assistance from the British
Govemment. The consultants' report (December 31 1994) contains the background on which the
proposed consultancy services are based.
The objective of the Project is to prepare a reconstruction program and a program of longer-term
measures for sustainable water management which would comprise:



-33-
- a) priority works to rehabilitate storm damage caused by flooding and landslides;
- b) a medium term plan to redesign hydraulic infrastructure to minimize damage and
disruption from future stcrm events; and
- c) a longer term plan to fully integrate land and water management into the framework
of the draft National Environmental Action Plan.
St Lucia is located in the Windward Islands between approximately 1343' and 1406'N and
60053' and 61005'W. It covers an area of 616km2. The physical geography is dominated by steep
slopes formed over volcanic rocks. The central highlands, rising to 950m, are deeply dissected
by small rivers, fotming 37 watersheds. Average annual rainfall ranges from 1250-1500mm near
the coast to over 3000mm in the interior mountains, falling mainly between June and December.
The island lies within the West Indies hurricane belt.
Agriculture is the dominant form of land use, occupying about 55 percent of the land in 1989.
Forest then covered about 35 percent, settlements about 9 percent, and bare rock and water the
remaining 1 percent. More than half the agricultural land is classified as intensively farmed,
mainly used for monoculture of bananas, partly for mixed food crops, and much of it on steep
hill slopes. The remaining forest is important for protecting the quality of water supplies taken
from rivers for domestic, commercial and irrigation uses, as well as to protect slopes against
unduly rapid rates of runoff and erosion which generate floods and siltation of river channels
downstream. Road communications are generally good, though the steep topography makes
construction and maintenance difficult.
The population of St Lucia increased from about 113,500 in 1980 to 136,000 in 1991, an annual
growth rate of about 1.8 percent. A high proportion is urban, some 45 percent living in the
capital, Castries. In the 1991 census, 24 percent of the national labour force was registered as
directly employed in the agricultural sector. Unemployment is officially estimated at 17 percent,
yet labour is reported to be difficult to find despite high daily wage rates, averaging ECS25
(USS10) per day.
St Lucia is a member of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States whose economies are
linked by a common currency, the EC dollar (pegged to the US dollar EC$2.7:USS1.00), and by
similar major sources of income. All members are affected by the current changes in GATT and
the formation of the Single European Market which have precipitated changes in various
preferential tariff arrangements, most notably for bananas, the mainstay of their economies.
There are numerous regional and subregional organizations and agencies with economic and
technical development briefs.
Contributions to GDP in 1992 included agriculture (13%), manufacturing (8%) and tourism
(10%). Real GDP grew by some 6% per annum 1987-92 reflecting, in part, an increase in
banana production and export from 84,000 tons to 132,000 tons during that period, supplemented
substantially by booms in new construction and tourism. However, the recent slow-down in
economic growth (from 7% in 1992 to 3% in 1993) is also largely attributable to changes in the
agriculture sector. Banana prices are forecast to fall significantly (20 percent) in the next few



years, so other crops such as cocoa, citrus and cut flowers are being promoted to diversify
agricultural production. Efforts are being made to promote St Lucia's potential for eco-tourism
and to encourage the manufacturing and international service sectors.
Tropical storm Debbie (TSD) struck St Lucia on the night of 9/10 September 1994. Some 250-
500mm   of  rain  fell  within   a  few   hours  in  the  interior  mountains.
The high rainfall, in combination with the already-saturated soil conditions, resulted in
devastating floods, aggravated by enormous amounts of debris and sediment derived from
extensive landslides that occurred on steep slopes, both cultivated and under natural forest, but
no records are available for discharges and sediment loads.
The floods caused four deaths, 24 persons were injured, six were reported missing, 37 were made
homeless and 500 displaced persons had to be accommodated in temporary shelters. Some 150
families were relocated in higher locations to reduce their vulnerability to future floods. The
Govemment subsequently estimated the replacement costs of such relocations and community
development at ECS1O million.
Loss of income from agricultural production was identified as the main economic impact of TSD.
Preliminary estimates by the Govemment were that this loss would be equivalent to ECS134.9
million (12.2% of 1993 GDP). Losses to physical infrastructure (water supplies, roads and
bridges) were estimated to be ECS74.2 million (6.7% of GDP) which could be reduced by 20
percent if insurance covers damage to the Roseau Dam. Many farmers have already rehabilitated
their crops and also desilted blocked drains. Others await the provision by the Govemment of
river and drainage works necessary to help ensure the viability of on-farm drainage systems.
Immediately after TSD, the Government embarked on a programme to repair damaged
infrastructure. -During the emergency relief stage, 80 percent of the water supply was restored,
temporary bridges installed to replace those destroyed, roads cleared to restore communications,
and protection works carried out to protect against river erosion. Debris and deposited sediment
have been removed from urban areas and from critical sections of river chanpels, and drainage
canals are being cleared of silt. The completion of Roseau dam will be delayed by some eight
months, but the site has been cleared of debris and construction has resumed.
Efforts to repair the damage done by TSD will continue in the coming dry season. The aim will
be to bring the hydraulic infrastructure to a state where it can cope with normal river flow in the
next rainy season. The first objective of the project is to assist in those efforts.
OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
The broad objective of Phase 2 is to initiate sustainable watershed management which would be
technically, socially, environmentally, economically and financially justified, through production
of a framework plan and preparation of the first projects and programs. Implementation is to
begin in the 1996 dry season. The outputs will be:



-35-
a watershed management plan which would provide criteria and guidelines for
watershed development, and which would present a phased program for the medium and
long term;
preparation of a pilot watershed management project in which various structural and
non structural techniques would be introduced and tested;
preparation of the first full watershed management project in a priority river/coastal
system; and
formulation of an institutional development program, which would establish the
organization(s) and legislation required to implement watershed management and prepare
a program of institutional strengthening.
The Phase I special studies will be managed under Phase 2, for consistency and continuity
through the Project.
SCOPE OF WORK AND TERMS OF REFERENCE
The planning and project/program preparation components of Phase 2 are to be implemented over
a six month period; with the special activity component starting about two months earlier. A
preliminary activity chart is shown in Figure C. The Consultant is required to prepare a detailed
program of activities covering each of the components and indicating the linkages between them.
1. PHASE 1
1.1 Special Activities
The Consultant will advise and assist GOSL in the preparation of specifications and procurement
documents, and will be responsible for procurement and supervising implementation of:
1.    Benchmark and River Surveys in priority watersheds. The survey will comprise
the establishment of permanent benchmarks and their coordinates along priority
rivers (possibly Cul de Sac, Roseau, Soufriere and Dennery in the first instance).
The survey will also include levelling in TSD flood marks and taking river cross
sections at key locations. Initial TOR for the surveys will be prepared by the
Phase I River Engineering Adviser.
2.    Landslide Surveys with detailed mapping in priority watersheds. The surveys will
be based on the report of the OAS-funded geologist which is due in mid-January
1995. The mapping will be at a scale of 1:10,000 and be used in the later
preparation of hazard maps (see 2.4 below). Provision is made for a
geologist/geomorphologist to advise and assist in the surveys and mapping and
train local staff.



-3 4-
3.    Hydromet Collection System in accordance with Appendix A Provision is to be
made for a hydrologist/instrument specialist to carry out the first installations and
to train operatives in installation, operation and data management.
4.    Pilot Slope Stabilization measures to be initiated, using geo-synthetics and other
materials. The trials will be incorporated in the Pilot Project.
1.2 Coordination
The Consultant will coordinate closely with MOCWT, MOAFF, the Management Consultant, the
River Engineering Advisor on the progress of design and construction. The Consultant will be
required to advise and assist MOCWT and MOAFF on any ongoing Phase I activities that may
continue into the latter half of 1995, and with the preparation of works or other activities which
may proceed into 1996..
2. WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PLAN
The preparation of the Watershed Management Plan, which will completed within three months
from the start of Phase I study program, will include the following main activities:
Preliminary
2.1   Review existing reports, plans, strategies and legislation concerned with watershed and
environmental management in river basins and associated coastal zones.
2.2   Consolidate and rationalize relevant material in a post-TSD context in order to provide
the background for preparing criteria and guidelines for watershed development.
2.3   Review the program for Phase 2 and prepare a brief inception report which would outline
preliminary findings
Hazard Analysis
2.4   Using data and material available from special studies and/or any other sources, carry out
hydrological and geomorphological analyses to prepare hazard maps of selected priority
catchments. Hazard mapping should also include areas that are vulnerable to tidal
influences or storm surges during hurricanes. Recommendations to be made for the
establishment of data collection in low lying coastal settlements, e.g. Dennery, Anse-la-
Raye etc..
2.5   Develop a system of hazard forecasting and warning, which will include guidelines for
public awareness.



-37-
Strategies
2.6    Confirm strategies through examination of land use, agricultural, social, land tenure,
environmental, economic and institutional issues.
2.7    Evaluate the existing institutional systems concerned with the development and
management of water and land resources (including associated coastal zones), and assess
the regulatory, legal and administrative provisions.
2.7    Develop criteria and guidelines for watershed conservation, public participation, legislation
and project identification, selection and prioritisation.
2.8    Evaluate construction procedures, maintenance provisions and institutional arrangements
and develop criteria and guidelines for project preparation
2.9    Prepare a brief report outlining the strategies to be adopted for watershed planning and
submit to MOPDE for approval.
Planning
2.10   Prepare a phased watershed and environmental management plan for the medium term,
up to year 2000, and for the longer term. The plan will cover the following:
2.11   Identification of projects and their priorities, and structural components, which may
include river works such as desilting, bank stabilization, resectioning and training,
drainage works, slope stabilization works, conservation measures etc., together with their
operation and maintenance requirements.
2.12   Analysis of alternative interventions.
2.13   Prepare outline designs, estimates of capital and recurrent costs.
2.14   Carry out initial environmental evaluation (IEE) and preliminary social, economic and
financial impact assessments.
2.15   Outline non-structural project components, which may include:
-     land use zoning based on soils, geomorphology and hazard mapping;
-     ecological and other environmental requirements;
-     regulations and legislation;
-     disaster forecasting, waming, preparedness and management;
-     public participation; and
-      institutional development and strengthening.



2.16   Confirmation of the first priority items to be undertaken in Phase 2 - i.e. Pilot Project
preparation, Watershed Project preparation and Institutional Development Program.
3. PILOT PROJECT PREPARATION
Preliminary
3.1    Carry out field reconnaissances, including public consultations, to select the pilot project
area. This could comprise one complete watershed or parts of different watersheds.
However, the areas chosen should be accessible, reasonably representative of conditions
elsewhere, have a good data/mapping coverage (from Phase 1) and be suitable for testing
the various options.
3.2    Collect data, maps and other relevant material for the chosen areas.
3.3    Make a provisional selection of the Pilot Project area and outline its scope and objectives,
prepare a brief inception report and obtain approval of MOPDE.
Surveys
3.4    Carry out reconnaissance surveys of sites of works.
3.5    Carry out localized social surveys and confirmatory land use surveys.
3.6    Obtain information on local institutions, Government and others.
Formulation and Design
3.7   Identify structural pilot project components. Testing types of work, materials, methods of
construction, operation and maintenance may be applied to:
-     river stabiliza.ion (desilting, bank strengthening, resectioning, training etc);
-     main drainage (location, design, outfall arrangements etc);
-     slope stabilization (bio-engineering, geosynthetics carried over from  Phase 1,
reforestation etc); and
-     river reserves (tree planting, special crops)
3.8   Identify non-structural measures to be tested. These may include:
-     changes in land use / agriculture in hazard or vulnerable areas;
-     building regulations / flood proofing in hazard or vulnerable areas;
-     hazard awareness, forecasting and warning systems;



-39-
public participation in implementation and operation and maintenance, and local
community / institutional arrangements;
regulations and legislation; and
environmental monitoring and evaluation systems
3.9   Formulate a plan for implementing and running the pilot project, prepare a brief interim
report for seeking Govemment approval.
3.10  Conduct public consultations on the pilot project proposals.
3.11  Prepare outline designs and cost estimates (capital and recurrent).
3.12  Carry out economic and financial analyses, social impact assessment and an
environmental impact analysis (EIA)
3.13  Prepare a project preparation report by month 6 which will include an operational plan
and institutional provisions.
4 WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT PREPARATION
Preliminary
4.1   Carry out field reconnaissances, including public consultations, to confirm the project area
selection made in the Watershed Management Plan. Dependent on size the project could
cover more than one watershed (which would include the associated coastal zones), and
be divided into two sub projects.
4.2   Collect data, maps and other relevant material for the selected project area.
4.3   Prepare a brief inception report outlining its scope, components and objectives, and obtain
approval of MOPDE.
Surveys
4.4   Carry out engineering reconnaissance surveys of sites of proposed works.
4.5   Carry out socio-economic, agricultural / land use, forestry  and environmental
reconnaissance surveys, if necessary including coastal zones.
4.6   Obtain information on local institutions, Govemment and others.



-40-
Formulation and Design
4.7   Identify structural components, which may include:
-     river stabilization works (desilting, bank strengthening, resectioning, training,
control structures etc);
-     main drainage works (channels and outfalls);
-     slope stabilization (land slide areas, river banks); and
-     project infra structure (buildings, access roads etc.).
4.8   Identify non-structural components. These may include:
-     introduction of land use / agriculture regulations in hazard or vulnerable areas;
-     introduction of building regulations / flood proofing in hazard or vulnerable
areas;
-     establishing hazard awareness, forecasting and warning systems;
-     enlisting public participation in implementation and operation and maintenance,
and local community / institutional arrangements; and
-     setting-up environmental monitoring and evaluation systems (including data
collection and analysis) in the watershed including associated coastal zone.
4.9   Formulate a plan for implementing and running the watershed project, prepare a brief
interim report for seeking Govemment approval.
4.10  Conduct public consultations on the watershed project proposals.
4.11   Prepare outline designs and cost estimates (capital and recurrent), including labour,
materials and equipment requirements, of the structural and non-structural components.
4.12   Carry out economic and   financial analyses, social impact assessment and an
environmental impact analysis (EIA)
4.13   Prepare a project preparation report by month 6 which will include an operation and
maintenance plan and institutional provisions.
S. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Preliminary
5.1    Confirm GOSL's strategy for rationalizing institutional arrangements for water and land
resource development, particularly water management, in the light of the institutional
recommendations contained in the Watershed Management Plan.



5.2   Building on existing institutional frameworks, design the broad structure and organisation
of the institution responsible for watershed and environmental management, together with
its proposed powers and linkages with other  concemed agencies. Also make
recommendations for local involvement.
5.3   Prepare a brief inception report on the proposed structure and obtain MOPDE's agreement.
Roles, responsibilities and legislation
5.4   Design the organisational structure to meet the requirements of watershed development.
5.5   Define roles and responsibilities of central and local institutions concerned with
environmental management. Regulatory, monitoring and evaluating activities should
include:
-     water use / disposal, quality and priorities;
-     land use, quality and zoning;
-     river management, reserves;
-     waste disposal, sewage treatment and disposal - with particular reference to
riverine and coastal areas;
-     urban encroachment on floodplains and wetlands;
-     building regulations in hazard zones;
-     disaster preparedness and management;
-     forestry conservation; and
-     public awareness, education and participation.
5.6   Propose modifications or additions to existing regulations and legislation, and examine
powers of enforcement. Particular attention to be given to institutional capabilities and
related aspects regarding effectiveness of present enforcement, and improvements to the
medium/long term.
5.7   Prepare a brief interim report outlining the findings for GOSL approval.
Program formulation
5.8   Prepare a program  for establishing the institutional framework for watershed and
environmental development and management. The components would include:
-     offices, buildings and relevant facilities in Castries and in the watersheds;
-     transport;
-     setting-up an appropriate GIS system for monitoring and evaluating watershed
management activities and results;
-     training programs for professionals, technicians and the public



5.9   Estimate the capital and running costs of the program.
5.10  Carry out appropriate social, environmental, economic and financial analyses to confirm
that the program's justification and sustainability.
5.11   Prepare a final report within month 6 of Phase 2.



.1:3-
TEAM LEADER/SENIOR WATER RESOURCES PLANNER
1.    The Team Leader will work closely with the GOSL Project Director and report to the
Intemiinisterial Steering Comunittee. S/hc will have primary responsibility for plannin the team's work
and ensunng during Phase I that the they complete five main tasks:
(a)   review the proposals for those essential river engineering, watercourse maintenance, ad
drainage works required to secure key iastucure investnts, and prepare a detailed
priority works program for implementation in early 1995;
(b)   review hydrologic and environmental hazards and risks, determine likely financial
economic, social, and eavironmental costs and benefits, and produce guidelines to idenf
economically justified projects;
(c)    produce the outline of a 5-7 year strategic plan to safely and economically stabilize natural
flood and drainage routes to the sea; the outline should also include provision for
aitenance;
(d)   review GOSL institutional capability and make rommedaons for (i) coordination md
maunagement of the priority works progrAm, and the follow-on Phase II TA activities, and
(ii) institutional set-up, development and training needed to establish sound wateshed
management in St. Lucia;
(e) identify and prepare a detaUiled work and staung plan for the Phase II activities which will
include (i) implementation of priority river engneering works (cf (a) above), landslide bio-
gineering and engineering, design of future civil engineing works, and progams for
watershed mnagemet including affected coastal and mane environents; (ai)
identification of policy issues, legal and legislative needs relating to sustaiable land use
and management within watrsheds; (iu) review  of the national fiaework for
environmental management in the country, including forest conservation and national
parks; and (iv) assessment of institutional capacity, and additional support roquire, to
implemt the national environmental acion plan and effective watershed management
2.    The team leader's particular responsibility will be tasks (c) and (e) above. In addtidon, as requird,
the team leader will liaise with the World Bank's Pro-Appraisal Mission provisionally scheduled for mid-
Docember, and ensure that the outputs of the OAS landslide specialis(s) are incorported in the Phae I
report as appropriate. Following the team's rm os and Bank and co-financiers' review, a second
TA team would be fielded for about 6 months to implement Phase II in the firs half of 1995, prbably
startng about March. However, depending upon finin/co-financing arragements areed for Phase H.
the Consultants may have to be selected by competitive bidding which could significantly delay the Phase U
program. GOSL and World Bank's expectations for Phase I arc described below for guidance.
3.    Phase H activities are provisionally expected to ectend for about six months, but depending upon
the findings and recommendations of the Phase I team this could be longer. At this stage the proposals for



-44-
Phase U are indicative of the broader issues and questions discussed with GOSL and development partas
in Barbados. Many of the problems addressed by the current emergency rehabilitation programs aru
symptoms of a severely stressed natural resource system, prime causes being expansion of smallholdr
agricultre to upland catchments, removal of native vegetation and unsustainable land managancu
practices. The overall objectives are to develop a plan to reverse the current environmental imbalance m
upland cachrmcts and facilitate socially and environmentally sound land, agricultural and water
management which will lead to increased agricultural productivity.  During the preparation and
implementation of the projects, spocial attention would be given to address rural employment issues which
include provision of a social safety nct. Major activities and outputs are expected to include:
1. A National Watershed Manseement Plan. IThis plan will require elaboration of the strategic
watershed management plau outlined in Phase I including issues of national environmetal
sustainability and management.
2. Institutional Strenithenine Program. Implementation of the watershed management plan will
require well coordinaed environmental management, and a najor task would be to ideny  a
suitable existing or new institution to take this responsibility. In addition, it would involve training
and new legislation to mandate ElAs and Environmental Management Plans for projects as well as
policies which would encourage sustainable watershed management within the farming community.
3. Legislative Framework for Environmental Management. There is a considerable body of
environmentally related legislation on the stactt books, but for various reasons it is not applied.
Part of this is because there is no single agency charged with its systematic application, and this
would be addressed by output 2 above. A series of lessons could be learned from a detailed
analysis of existing legislation relaing to land, water and agricultural management and its
inplementation. Particular areas of concern that could be addressed would be (a) resetement
programs which might be required by long term environmental management measures identified,
(b) poople's participation in the planning and project implementation process and (c) restrictions on
land use. Te lesson leamed could then be used to develop a matrix of options for reform of
existing legislation, and new  legal instruments and enforcement mechanisms to facilite
achievement of socially and environmentally sound, and financially and economically viable,
watershed management.
4.    The National WatersLed Management Plan would produce proposals to meet imnm te needs fDr
flood warning, protection, and zoning, and longer term remedies to mitigate environmental degradation of
watersheds. The first pridrity will be hydrologic analysis to classify and map hydrologic hazards and risks
to produce a floodplain zoning map, and make recommendations for flood preparedness, waming and
evacuation plans, and production of a landslide hazard map (to be undertaken by OAS). Using the results
of GOSL flood damage and water course survpy, a prioritized list and project description of econorically
justifiod watershed, river stabilization and maintenance projects could be produced, and it is expecte tat
the firt five could be designed to feasibility level, the balance to pre-feasibility level.
5.    Longer term sustainability will only be achieved if the causes of land degradation which lead to
watershed management problems can be identified. his can be achieved by an evaluation of climate, lauId,
soil resources and land use to make recommnedations for agro-ecological zoning. Agro-ecological zoning
will provide the physical basis for crop diversification. Land and agricultural management skills will need



assessment to determine complementary agricultural extension needs. Factoring in market opporuniie,
constraints and realities of the national and regional economy and intemational trade will determine a
feasible range of opporanities for diversification to maximize agicutural productivity. The imperative for
employment generation and a social safety net will define a socially and politically feaible agricultl and
land use stategy.
6.    Longer term viability of public sector components of the wateed management plan will depted
upon the degree to which GOSL water management projects become vested in local communities ai
institutions, and moet real needs and peoples' exptations.  Initially, this will depend upoo public
participation in the pLaning design and implemntation process. If such efforts are successful, either ca
recovery or transference of rouie maintenance becomes feasible. Consequently, a major effort should be
to formulate recommendations to enable either early turnover or pilot cost recovery schwmes for projie
implemented in the priority works program of Phase I and the five projects identified to feasibility level i
Phase II.
7.    One result of the study could be policy recommendations for land reforn, and to improve
agriculture and land management in the public and private sectors. While major progress could be made
through macro-economic measures, policy options for sustainable land and water nianagement need to be
tested and ref&ned to become effective instruments to guide development, particularly where do
environment is concerned. Thus, a pilot watershed could be selected and monitored for a period of say Awe
years or to about year 2000 to test the mnge of options and project ypes identified, to detemine wht is
feasible and effective.



-4 6-
RIVER TRAINING SPECIALISTIENGINEER
1.    The fit task and primary responsibility of the river maining specialist/enginer will be to prepare
the priority civil engineering works program required to secure kcy  asiunctr investments to be
implemented in Phase II. These works will be financed by the World Bank. To achieve this, s./he will work
with GOSL staff to finaii the river channel damage assessment. FoUowing damage assessment and
review of GOSL proposals for those essential river engineering, waercourse maitenance, and drainage
works, she will prepare and budget a detailed priority works program for implementation in early 1995 in
the cost range USS3-6 nillion which will be financed by the World Bank. Priority civil enneering works
will be only selcted if they comply with projects described in either Category A or B of the World Bank's
Operational Directve 4.01, Annex A. To ensure that such a program can be financed by the World Bank
and is implamentable, s./he will (a) review governrment contacting procurement prctie and (b) asess
adequacy and capability of government and private sector civil enigineering conuctors and plant and (c)
make recommendations for procurement in line with World Bank rules on procurement and supervision of
civil engineering conractg services.
2.    The second task will be to desip the TA for Phase I to enure the hydrologic and river
engineerig aspects of the proposed National Watershed Management Plan are adequately covered. ITis
would requie proposals to meet immediate needs for flood waming, protecdon, and zoning, and longer
tem remedies to mitigate envionmental degradation of waterheds. The first priority will be hydrologic
analysis to classify and map hydrologic haards and risks to produce a floodplain zonig nap, and make
reommendations for flood preparedness, waming and evacuation plans, and production of a landslide
hazard map (to be undertake by OAS). Using the results of GOSL flood damage and water course
surveys, a prioritzed list and project description of economically justified watershed, river stabilization and
maintenance project could be produced, and it is expected during Phase U that the first five could be
desigmed to feuibility level, the balance to pre-feasibility level.
WATERSHEDILANVD USE SPE:CIALSIS
1.    The primary responsibility of the watershed/land use specialist will be to work with GOSL to
assess agncultural and land use plannin practices, issues and relatd data bases in Saint Lucia in order to
prepare the work plan for the Phase U watershd and landuse management activities. Longer term
suwainability will only be achieved if the causes of land degradation which lead to watershed mnagmet
problems can be identified. This can be achieved by an evaluation of climate, land, soil resources and lacd
use to make recommendations for agro-ecological zoning. Ago-ecological zoning will provide the physical
basis for crop diversification. Land and agicultural management skills will need assessment to detemine
complementary agncultural  tension needs.
2.     The major task of the watershedllanduse specialist is to determine the mnthods and approach
required to evaluate these problem and design a TA program for Phase I to implement them. In particular
this will require (a) review of current lnd use legislation and practices, (b) reconnaissance evaluation of
agriculturl practices related to soil and land suitability and (c), working closely with the landslide
specialist and bioengineer to determine a program of investigation in Phase 1 to relate changing land use to
ladslide harzard and general soil erosion. More generally, s./e will review soil and agro-climatic data
bases to determine what needs doing during Phase U to initiate agro-ecological zoning of Saint Lucia. As a



-47-
result of these activities, and an assessment of institutional needs, he/she will draft a workplan describing
what actions and investigations are required during Phase II to make policy, legal and institutional
recommnendations to achieve sustainable land use which will lead to effective watershed management.
SOCIAL SCIENTIST
1.    The primary responsibility of the social scientist is to design a work for the Phase II studies. The
overall objectives are to develop a socio-economic and environmentally sustainable plan the reverse the
current imbalance in upland catchments and facilitate changes in agricultural and water management
practices that can lead to increase agricultural productivity within sound environmental terms. During the
preparation and implementation of the projects, the social scientist will give special attention to identify
the affected and benefitted population and the relevant social actors (stakeholders) that are or should be
involvei within the decision- making process for project design and implementation.
2.     During Phase I, s/he will (a) organize the consultation and participatory process: information to
be disseminated, strategies, double-way communications, grievance mechanisms, incorporation of social
consideration within the project design and implementation; contact relevant governmental and non-
governmental agencies; (b) determine de social feasibility of the priority civil works embraced by the
project (specially the five projects already identified); (c) assess the socio-economic sustainability of the
project (social costs and benefits); (d) make suggestions to incorporate social consideration within the
projects; (e) develop a work plan for Phase II to promote socio-economically justified projects based upon
hazards, risks (to be identified by engineers and environmentalists), social vulnerability of the population
involved capacity for adopting new agricultural practices, etc..
3.    In addition, during Phase I, the social scientist will (a) identify and evaluate the socio-economic
and cultural implications derived from unavoidable displacement of population; (b) prepare a draft
resettlement policy to be discussed and finally adopted by the borrower and, (c) design an outline for a
resettlement and rehabilitation action plan (for phase II) to be discussed with the govermnent and the
affected families.
4.    In developing the plan for Phase I, particular areas of concern that should be addressed are: (d)
implementation of work programn for the population that will remain in place, which might require long-
term socioeconomic and environmental measures, specially in regarding long-term sustainable agriculture
and management of natural resources; (e) implementation of a resettlement and rehabilitation plan for the
population that necessarily will be removed, and (f) make sure that a participatory process will be put in
place to implement the project sub-components. The lessons learned could then be used to develop a
matrix of options for reform of existing legislation and to modify the projects design in order to achieve
an environmentally sound management plan for the watershed.
S.     Viability of public sector components of the watershed management plan over the long term will
depend upon the degree to which GOSL water management projects become vested in local communities
and institutions, and meet real needs and peoples' expectations. Initially, this will depend upon public
participation in the planning, design and implementation process. If such efforts are successful, either cost
recovery or tansference of routine maintenance becomes feasible. Consequently, in Phase II a major effort
should be to formulate recommendations to enable either early tumover or pilot cost recovery schemes for



-48-
projects implemented in the priority works program of Phase I and the five projects identified to feasibity
level in Phase I1.
BIO-ENGINEERING EXPERT
1.    The bioing expert will (a) work with the OAS landslide expert to determine appropriate
replann of high risk areas to reduce landslide hazard and (b) develop a work program for Phase II to
ensure that the latest techiques and local knowledge of bio-enginering applications are inclided in de
river stabiliztion, land ue and watesheo managemcnt plan. To ensure bio-engineering techniques are
sustaible, plans ould be made to include a monitoring and evaluation program. S/he will assess local
institutional kmowledge and capability and make  r endations for institutional development and
training to be carried out during Phase IL
ENVIRONMENTAIST
1.    The envionmentist's primary responsibilities are (a) design the work program for the terrestrial
and near shore marine ecology investigations which will lead to recommendatons for sustainable waterhed
management in Phase H and (b) design a work program to review and make recommendations for the
legisltive framework for evironmental management.
2.    At this stage the proposals for Phase H are indicative of the broader issues and questions discssed
with GOSL and development partners in Barbados. Many of the problems addressed by the curnt
emergency rehabilitatio progams are symptons of a severely stessed natural resource systen, primc
cause being expansion of smaUlolder agiculture to upland catchments, removal of native vegetation and
unsustainale land nanagem_t practices. The overall objectives are to develop a plan to reverse the
curent eviroental imbalance in upland catchments and facilitate socially and environmentally sound
land, gricultunal and water management which will lead to increased agricultural productivity. S/he will
have to consider, apart fiom ersion within the wateshds, indirect and longer term impacts of flooding
incude loss of productive soils, leaching of residual soil nutrients, and water logging of valley bottom land
because of infilled river beds. In additon, discharge of slit laden streamfiow to in-shore water connues to
cause significant but ill defined, ecological impact as reef and habitats are cloaked in sediment In view
of the fact that eco-ourism is a major source of Saint Lucia's GDP, the environmentalist will need to give
special attention to mitigating near-shore and in-shore damage to coral reefs and Marine habitats.
3.    Thre is a considerable body of ir          related legislation on the statute books, but for
vanous reasons it is not applied, one being that thre is no single agency charged with its systemic
application A series of lessons could be leanod from a detailed analysis of existing legislation relating to
land, wata and agicuklurl  anagmt and its implementation. Partclar areas of concern that could be
addressed would be (a) rsertlem  prograns which might be required by long term envir     l
management measures idetified, (b) people's participation in the planning and project implementation
process and (c) restrictions on land use. The lessons lead could then be used to develop a matrix of
options for reform of exting lgistion, and new legal instuments and enforcement mechanisms to
facilitate achievement of socially and environmentally sound, and financially and economically viable,
watershed management.



-49-
4.    One result of the study could be policy recommndations for land reforn, and to improve
agricultumre and land managenint in the public and private sectors. While major progress could be made
through macro-economic measures, policy options for sustainable land and water maagemt need to be
tested and refined to become effective instruments to guide developmet, parucularly where the
environment is concerned. ITus, the environmental study would play a key role in selecing a pilo
watershed which would be monitored for a period of say five years or to about year 2000 to test the range
of options and project types identified, to determine what is enviroamentally feasible and effective.
5.    Finally, the environmentalist has prmary responsibility for reewing the civil enoring worksi
program developed during Phase I to ensure that it complies with EIA impact cls  A or B of the World
Bank's Operational Dirctive .4.01, Annex A. In addition, the environmentalist will advise GOSL on the
eavironmmital implications and resetilement plannin of Project Acted Peoples if the proposed flood
plain zoning at Dennery on the west coast is requested by GOSL.



-50-
Watershed and Environment Management Project
Participation Program
Proposal
Foreword
Participation is increasingly recognized as a necessary part of sustainable
development strategies. Experience suggests the benefits of development efforts are more
likely to be sustained when the ultimate clients are involved in designing and implementing
the work involved.
In the case of the Watershed and Environment Management Project, participation
is particularly important at various stages. For example, as it has been pointed out in the
Preparation Report on the project, clean up works to be effective should be coordinated
with landowners' work on farm drainage system.
This Report also states that in the future, the most serious issue in watershed
management is how to prevent further expansion of cultivation into St. Lucia's remaining
forest areas and persuade the farmers cultivating steep hill land to give up practices which
cause soil erosion and subsequent flash floods, river siltation, crop and properties' damage
and deterioration of land and water quality downstream areas.
Indeed, all the efforts of St. Lucia Government would be insufficient without the
cooperation of farmers and population living by the riversides.  To change some
agricultural practices that have proved cause negative impact on flow of rivers will take
time, patience and wide participation.
Objectives
The main objective of the proposed Participation Program is to imnprove the quality
of the Watershed and Environment Management Project's design and implementation by
systematically incorporating the involved population's views and commitment to its
results, and to succeed in some specific objectives such as:
(a)   to inform farmers and the population in general, about the objectives of the
Project;
(b)   to provide people the opportunity to participate in the implementation of
the Project so as to ensure its sustainabiity and maintenance; and
(c)   to institutionalize within the Government the participatory approach by
setting up an appropriate organization to prepare and implement the
participation program.



-51-
Activities
In accordance to these objectives, the Participation Program would have three
main activities: (i) Information; (ii) short term actions to support the ongoing clean up of
rivers; and (iii) long-term actions for sustainability and maintenance of the Project.
Information
Information should have at least two different targets: (i) general
population; and (ii) farmers and population by the riversides. In both cases,
delivery of information should be clear and simple for a common understanding.
(i)   Information to the first group would include dissemination of the
objectives of the Project, the efforts undertaken by the Government
and the importance for the future of the country to maintain rivers'
watersheds. A mass media communication campaign might be
advisable for this purpose; and
(ii)   Information to the second group, or beneficiaries of the project,
should be more precise and direct, emphasizing the need of their
cooperation. Workshops to be held by relevant organizations such
as the Banana Growers Association, the National Farmers
Association, or other local organizations, are recommended.
Short-Term Actions
It is important to involve farmers and population living by riverside in the
clean up of the rivers. Once they have received relevant information, some direct
actions should be organized at local level such as drainage at farm lands; support in
the removal of debris and garbage cleaning, for instance. The engineers in charge
of the technical aspects of the project can help to select some other actions where
the local population might participate.
Long-Term Actions
The design of these actions should consider the following stages: Oi
dissemination of information on the need of the activities promoted; (ii) setting up
of consultation mechanisms and sharing of decision making on the actions to be
undertaken, (iii) formation of committees of beneficiaries or other kind of
organizations at grass root level to be in charge of the works; and (iv)
strengthening the ability of these organizations to carry out the works. The
following measures are to be considered as part of the long term actions:
(i)    provision of technical assistance to adopt agricultural practices less
damaging to the flow of rivers;



-52-
(ii)   reforestation and other forestry activities;
(iii)   river bank protection;
(iv)    soil protection programs to prevent erosion and subsequent river
siltation;
(v)    improvement of housing design to reduce risk of flooding; and
(vi)   avoid dumping garbage in the rivers.
Consultation and Incentives
Both, short- and long-termn actions to be successful should be the result of
consultation with the beneficiaries; provision of some kind of incentives and appreciation
to participants should be considered. Workshops or other similar techniques are useful for
a quick consultation; NGO's and grass root organizations could be also very helpful in this
aspect.
Incentives should not be of monetary kind, quite the opposite; they could be in the
form of technical assistance; support for demonstrative plots; donation of plants for
reforestation; public awards and if possible, improvements to the community to
compensate its efforts, are recommended. It is advisable to take into account existent
programs and entities to organize consultation and provide incentives.
Stakeholders
Identification of relevant stakeholders is crucial for the purposes of any
participation program. This selection would be determined by the situation and the type of
activities to be supported. For example, to change agricultural practices, the National
Farmers Association might be a relevant stakeholder. To clean and avoid the disposal of
garbage in the rivers, the social clubs or other community level organizations would be
best suited for this purpose. Some environmental groups might also get involved in the
promotion of participation and disseminating information on the Project.
Institutional Frmework
The Ministry of Planning has been appointed as general coordinator of the Project
with the Ministries of Communication, Works and Transport and Agriculture, Lands,
Fisheries and Forestry, in charge of the main works. For the purposes of the Participation
Program, the main activities lay in the field of the Ministry of Agriculture; however, some
ministries such as Education and Labor, Health and Local Government and Youth,
Community Development, Social Affairs, Sports and Operatives, might also have a
supportive role.



-53-
However, the experience of these ministries in a programn of participation is not
clear, therefore, the most suitable entity to be responsible for the preparation and
implementation of the program should be selected.
It was suggested by the Ministry of Planning that a Committee at the ministerial
level might be appointed to deal with participation. The set up of this Committee would
be an important step and prove of Government's commitment to the participation
program. Nevertheless, a more operational organization might be necessary to promote,
organize and monitor the Participation Program.
The design of this organization to be in charge of the program, its functions and
identification of its human resources and financial needs must receive special attention
during preparation ofthe Participation Program. Managers and policy makers in St. Lucia
have to be involved in this process. It would be advisable to appoint a team of technicians
and social scientists from the different ministries implicated to carry out the various
activities of the Program and to take the leading role in its implementation.
Pilot Effort
The long-term actions intended for sustainability and maintenance of the Project
might prove difficult to undertake at a national level at a first stage. Furthermore, some of
these activities would possibly need some kind of adjustment to improve results.
Therefore, it is recommended to start with a pilot effort before a generalized set up is
established.
This pilot effort could be initiated in Roseau and Cul de Sac, both places seriously
damaged by Debbie and where some traditional agricultural practices actually endanger
the sustainability and maintenance of the project.
Existing programs within the Government, private institutions and NGO's, related
to the participation program's activities should be incorporated to this effort to profit from
their experience and practices.
Schedule of Preparation
The schedule to prepare the Participation Program should be coordinated with the
preparation of the Watershed and Environment Management Project in order to support
its objectives, therefore, careful timing is important. The following aspects and dates
should be considered:
(a)   Agreement on terms of reference, budget and appointment of consultant(s)
and/or members of the Government for the preparation of the Participation
Program should be ready by March 1995;
(b)   A first draft on the campaign for general information purposes should be
prepared in April or as soon as an agreement is reached on terms of
reference;



-54-
(c)   The Participation Program should be ready in three months, on time to be
integrated into the Management Plan. Therefore, preparation should begin
by March-April and end by June-July;
(d)   The pilot effort should begin as soon as possible and have some results as
feed back after three months of initiated. The expected findings should
include factors of success and constrains in implementation; and
(e)   A monitoring system would be set up and kept during a period of two
years to document on advances and problems of the Program every six
months, enough to have some results on the expected objectives.
Preparation
To attain to the proposed schedule, it is suggested a full-time team be appointed to
prepare the Program. A consultant with social background and experience in participation
or social development should be hired to coordinate the team, concentrate infornation and
prepare the final Program. Government's officials forming part of the team should be
conunitted to the Program and disseminate their experiences within Government's entities
to institutionalize the participatory approach.



-55-
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File: Annex 3
Selected Consultant Document
Government of Saint Lucia. Watershed and Environmental Management Project. Consultant's
Report. December 31, 1994. Assigned by the World Bank with Technical Assistance from the
United Kingdom, British Division Caribbean



I



IBRD 26634
IA I OMI? IC                                                                          61 K00'                                    60A55I
BEPUETIC                       / ,ihi,,Tb
IIo (USJ   5b. .IN^h)J    ANTIGUA -d BARBUDA
SIIE.
Si E,,io,i,, TN.Th)-~ I   G od.op ) F )                                                        f '7
MS - KI / UNTKI  DOMINICA
ST VINCENT  ST. LUCIA                14'05,
!d ST'        BARBADOS           -                                                                                                 1
GRENADINES                                                             Gros Islet
Arubo (NeATh  Cvr,aDo TNTEhI           GRENADA
COL. -/                                       TRINIDAD o-d                                               \C'  ' 
TOBAGO                                                                N.           ,.j
V E N E Z U E L A 
S T.  L U C  I A                                               CASTRIES    '                        /,' 
PRIMARY ROADS                                                        _?--DAbP 'I N
- - --SECONDARY ROADS
-14'U0'          _       MAJOR TOWN                                                                                                                                     400
0      SELECTED TOWNS                                            .
       AIRPORTS                        
PORTSC A                                                               
RIVERS                                                   )           o                                  _           ' _
PARISH BOUNDARIES                           >,'2j? _                                                   II\
-  - -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ELEVATIONS (FEET):
2400 AND ABOVE                       wi         >    \          W         t)s E                   _ I
m           1800-2400
-           1200-1800                                                                                                                   ennery
-13'50'                                                                                                                                                                  1 3z50-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M icoud
sh own on/ this map4 do7 not imply, on the4part5of-The W
o0                             A          5 MILES                                     g >             t<r
T    I             I   I                 KILOMETERS                         ~C                       <
Vieux Fort        Maria Islands
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                1
sbown on this map do not imply, on the port of The Worldi Bank Group,                                          t1
any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
61 05                                      61T00                                       6055'
FEBRUARY 1 995






IBRD 26776
Ir   I Iods -Angudf. /UKI
HAIF  OMINICAS          (US) :  UK)    S M     INU,,I                                 6100                                      60 55
REPUBIIC                     Is                                                61n)00y 6IF5
ANSTIGUA od BFARUDA
Sl   E   ... . s I i  I-
IT KITTS _, NVS 'I   ,~dop,(,
M5,-r-Io (UK)    DOMINICA
foiiu F,)                                                      _ >       - r
ST VIN ENT  ST. LUCIA               1 405                                           )   /0
GREN,NES                          -1405Gros Islet
A-b, iNeIh) C-- (-)                   GRENADA                                                                /    A
COL                                          RINIDADord               \                                     II
/                                ~~~~~~~~~~~TOBAGO                                          t     
V E N E Z U E L A            --- INTERNATIONAL                                     \-
BOUNDARIES
ST. LU C I A                                                                C' -'.
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL                                                      C                                -Njr 
MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                               ,-
HYDROMET NETWORKS                                                  ,-                                                        1"
400'   PROPOSED ES STING                                                       ,T                                I  "                 ,      t4'00
METEOROLOGICAL STATION                                     ''7f'                      -  '                   vI
RA NFALL RECORDER ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     -           N,.
*     RAIN GAUGE AND                                             -_
*     RAINFALL RECORDER
RAIN GAUGE                                                               I                       - 7                          <
RAINFALL RECORDER*                                                    <    )_                                                 .
A    A   WATER LEVEL RECORDER
Anse La Raye          '
o            STEVENSON SCREEN
0            STAFF GAUGE                                C
1 3'55'                                                                   F-                                                                                        3'55'-
MEAN ANNUAL
PRECIPITATION:
Canaries       -
IN MILLIMETERS                                                                              L       v 
IN INCHES
CATCHMENT                              - 1
BOUNDARIES
PRIMARY ROADS
--- - SECONDARY ROADS
;aMR MAJOR TOWN
Soufrilre
O    SELECTED TOWNS                   1      ,,-.
AIRPORTS                       I             Ir
13F50                  PORTS                                                                              A-                                                       1350-
RIVERS
13-45                                                                             Labori                                                                            3'45*-
0      1       2       3      4       SMILES
I      I                       I      ,_                                                            a
0    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8 KILOMETERS                                              Vieux Fort             Maria Islands
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
61'05                                     61'00                                      60'55
FEBRUARY 1995






IBRD 26777
t             v rgm Illonds  Angu l. IUK)
HAITI GCMIN CAN         (UvS :.,d3 -3, F, Moo,io (Nl6l                                    61 00'                                      60'55
REPUBL C                        I Mod,,, JF,r
SI 51bTNeImr IF',
r . .US, S,b. (N Ih)-1    ANTIGUA ond BARBUDA
ST FaTT,. IN- E' 
sr Kills on NEVS-    O Godeloupe (T>;                                                            r
AN,,T,.,,o (UK)  DOMINICA
M  I,,.,a   F,)                                                                  U
ST LUCIA                   14 05'/                                                                                              O
ST VINCENT
"d'"   BARBADOS
GPENAD NES                                                                          )/ 
A,,,bo INsE') C,',aco,, ON_)            GRENADA
COL  CTRINIDAD .,d
TOBAGO                                                            N
zz          ~~~~~V E N E Z U E L A                INTENDATIONAL                                                   _             <
iiV NEUL                                              BOUNDARIES
S T.  L U C I A                                                                   ( - ' 
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL                                                                                      -_
MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                   r
LANDSLIDE HAZARD                                                                                                          ,,t'
14'00                       HAZARD RATING:                                               ,  \                                 t'           v00-
LOW                                                                                   N                     V' u2A3
MEDIUM                                                  -    -                                                       2--'
HIGH                                                                   y
_          EXTREME                                      >g           -N                                                          -r
NOT ASSESSED                                      /
PRIMARY ROADS            Anse La Rayn    '       '--
--- - SECONDARY ROADS                        N
--  MAJOR TOWN BOUNDARY                           \  ->
T13ss                 0     SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                                13'55-
AIRPORTS
Canaries                           4      /
PORTS                                 ,    -
RIVERS 
Soufr
13450 '                                                                                                    - 4  -                                                         1350-
r.   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1 3'A5                                                                                La1 3'45-
0       1       2       3       4       5 MILES
0    1   2   3   4   5   6    7     BKILOMETERS
Vieux Part              Maria Islands
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply. on the part of The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
6105                                       61 00'                                       6055'
FEBRUARY 1 995






IBRD 26778
HA TI ?   OT., N   AN  'SBV,,.   UK  iS  , . (UK ) ,
I EIDO. NI       SI NN,,INeF,)                                                 61 '00                                    60'55
PE                          /  51 -emeem I-
R --iTS)  S.be  -lj    ANIIGUA od FARBUDA
51 iEa.lcs,, INrh                             
T fITS d NEVIS-     G-dl-p. IF.)                                                              ,.
MAI~TI UKI-J   DO.S NICA
SI VINCENT  ST. LUCIA               1405                                                                                            14 /
-T VINCET    BARBADCS                                               Gros slet1
ADS IN-e                      GRENAc NNElb.   GRENADA                                                        t' 
COL                                          T R NIDAD o.,d                                            \  -'/k
V E N E Z U E L A            ---INTERNATIONAL -A  _                                                    t'-'N
Z1,                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOUNDARIESI
ST.   L U  C  I A                                          CASTRIES                             ''1
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL                                                                                         %    ,
MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                 \3K\ '                   .
PRIORITY WORKS IN PHASE 1                                                                                          -I
-14'00'                                                                                                                                                            ld <<\  ^   (~ \   *   ,,\  1400
APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS AND                                  N.                              N   N.  I
GENERAL TYPES OF WORK:                                    (  _              DS                  /        '
RIVER WORKS                                               DDS   
DRAINAGE WORKS                                      N'-  D-
DS       DESILTING                                           DS'
DC       DEBRIS CLEARANCE            Ansc La Raye                                      D
RS       RESECTIONING                           ND
BS       BANK STRENGTHENING
13.55                CATCHMENT BOUNDARIES            _                                                                                               nne \_y -,
PRIMARY ROADS                   RS e.sD                                                                                      Dennery
- - - -  SECONDARY ROADS Con   e                                                                         ' / 
-6C" MAJOR TOWN
0     SELECTED TOWNS
      AIRPORTS                         '- N
PORTS                                                                                              N.
RIVERS                     -       R-
13'50                                                                                                                                                              IS ' 50
> \~~~~~~~                                    ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ic > 2 X oM'ud
-/.X I.. ,   /
13 AS~
-1345                                                                             La ori
0      1       2       3      4       5MILES
0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8 KILOMETERS
V.eee Fortv            Mario Islands
The boundarIes, colors, denominahons and any other informat,on
shown on this map do not imply. on the part of The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries
BI 0s                                     61 00                                      60 55
FEBRUARY 1995









IMAGING
Report No:      1432-5 SLU
Type: SAR



