Document of
The 'World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18145
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ST. LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2768-SLU, LOAN 3925-SLU.)
tune 29, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainalble Development Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. 'Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CURR1ENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency UJnit = East Caribbean Dollar
EC$1.00 = US$ 0.37
U'S$1.00 = EC$ 2.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 inch      = 2.5 centimeters (cm)
I foot      = 30.5 cm
1 mile      = 1.609 kilometers
1 acre      = 0.405 hectare (ha)
1 acre-foot  = 1.233 cubic meters (m3)
1 pound     = 0.454 kilogram (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDDC        British Development Division in the Caribbean
*CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDB         Caribbean Development
CGCED       Cairibbean Group for Cooperation and Economic
Development
EU          European Union
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOSL        Government of St. Lucia
MOCWT       Ministry of Communication, Works and Transport
MOALFF    Ministry of Agriculture Land, Forestry and
Fisheries
MOPDE       Ministry of Planning, Development and
Environment
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NEAP        National Environmental Action Plan
OAS         Organization of American States
OECS        Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
Vice President:                         Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Management Unit:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director, Sector Management Unit:       Maritta Koch-Weser
Sector Leader:                          Maria Donoso Clark
Staff:                                  Samuel Wedderburn
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ordy in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ST. LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2768-SLU, LOAN 3925-SLU.)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    .................                                                                           i
Evaluation Summary .........;ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introouction..1
A.  Project Objectives ............................I
B.   Achievement of Objectives ............................2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................4
D.   Project Sustainability ...8........................8
E.   Bank Performance ..9.........................9
F.   Borrower Performance ............................9
G. Assessment of Outcome .................                                                       10
H. Future Operations ........;10
1. Key Lessons Learned ...............                                                           11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .......................                                           13
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .....................                                         14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15.... , ,,I
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................................  16
Table 5:  Key Indicators of Development Ouitcome/Impact ............................................. ,17
Table 6:  Future Monitoring of the Project by the Borrower ............................................  18
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project ........................ ,19
Table 8A: Project Costs. .                   .                                                    -20
Table 8B: Project Financing.,B21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .                                                             21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .                                                              22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................................................................................................25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .                                                              26
This document has a restricted distribultion and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SiT. LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2768-SLU, LOAN 3925-SLU.)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Watershed and Environmental
Management Project, for which Loan 3925-SLU in the amount of US$2.65 million equivalent and
Credit 2768-SLU in the amount of SDR1.7 rnillion equivalent were approved on July 14, 1995 and
made effective on October 10, 1995.
2.    The Loan/Credit which was fully dis'bursed, was closed on December 31, 1997, and the
grace period granted for submission of final applications ended on May 31, 1998.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Samuel Wedderburn, Natural Resources Management Specialist,
Caribbean Country Management Unit for the Latin America and Caribbean Region. The ICR was
reviewed by Maria Donoso-Clark, Sector Leader, Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development Unit for the Latin America and Caribbean Region.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
in August 1997. It is also based on material in the project file and discussions with the Borrower's
staff and beneficiaries.



ii
ST. LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRO'NMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2768/LOAN 3925-SLU)
Evaluiation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Watershed and Environmental Management Project was designed in response to the
emergency arising from Tropical Storm "Debbie", which caused severe damage on the Island of St.
Lucia St. in September 1994. The storm resulted in loss of life, caused significant damage to the
country's hydraulic infrastructure, destroyed standing crops and housing, and resulted in overall
losses of US$79 million, about 18% of 1993 GDP. The project was quickly prepared and
approved; nine months elapsed between identification and Board approval. Project preparation was
facilitated by strong Borrower commitment, and resource support from a Project Preparation
Facility advance (PPF) from IDA, funds from the British Development Division in the Caribbean
(BDDC) and technical assistance from the Organization of American States (OAS).
Project Objectives
2.    The project's objectives were: (i) to begin rehabilitation of the hydraulic infrastructure of
priority watersheds from the damage caused by the flooding and landslides; (ii) to address the
medium and long term requirements for sustainable watershed development by preparing a
Watershed Management Plan which would serve as the basis for more integrated development of
key watersheds; and (iii) to strengthen the Government's capacities in environmental management
and flood preparedness.
3.    These objectives were realistic and appropriate for the circumstances. They were also
consistent with the Government's macro-economic policies and the Bank's development strategy
for the country, which emphasized management of natural resources and agricultural
diversification. Importantly, the project objectives included a blend of short term reconstruction
together with plans to address the longer term issues of watershed management that could help
limit the potential damage from future hurricanes and storms. At appraisal the main risks identified
were: (i) time and cost overruns resulting from unfavorable climatic conditions; and (ii)
inadequate management and control of the jproject. Neither of these factors significantly affected
the project's outcome.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project has achieved all of its objectives. Rehabilitation of the damaged hydraulic
infrastructure was fully achieved in the 11 priority watersheds identified through the
implementation of a program of civil works. After minor damage to a small portion of the works
from storms during the first year of reconstruction, the rehabilitated infrastructure effectively
withstood the impact of subsequent storms in 1996 and 1997.
5.    The framework for meeting the long term requirements for sustainable watershed
development has been established with preparation of the Watershed Management Plan.
Preparation of the Plan was based on detailed studies and trials of structural and non-structural
measures in two pilot watersheds, together with a strong element of community participation.
There are some shortcomings, however, in the presentation of the Plan. The results of the studies
receive too much emphasis instead of articulation of a strategy. It also does not identify candidate
projects for future development, nor specify components with environmental, financial, economic
and social assessments. A review that would address these issues is to be carried out at a
stakeholder workshop to be held in July 1998.
6.    The project also strengthened the government's capacities in environmental protection and
disaster preparedness together with the capability to plan, design, execute and maintain works for
river training and flood control. Staff of the Project Implementation Units of the Ministry of
Communications, Works and Transport, (MOCWT) and the Ministry of Agriculture, Lands,
Forestry and Fisheries (MOALFF) received on-the-job training, while a River Maintenance Unit
has now been established in MOCWT.
7.    At appraisal total project costs were estimated at US$7.1 million. The Loan and Credit of
US$2.65 million each, together with a grant from the British Goverrnment would finance 100% of
foreign exchange costs, while it was estimated that GOSL would provide US$1.3 million out of
US$2.3 million of local costs. At closure, total project cost was US$7.3 million, the Loan and
Credit were fully disbursed while Government's contribution was US$ 1.2 million. The British
Government contributed US$ 0.79 million, US$ 0.29 million more than expected which was used
to finance consultants for the preparation of the Watershed Management Plan. This allowed
proceeds from the Loan/Credit to be reallocated to priority works identified during implementation
and consistent with Project Objectives.
8.    The key factors affecting the performance of the project were the following: (i) rapid
project processing which allowed timely implementation of rehabilitation of civil works before
the 1995 storm season; (ii) strong borrower ownership which facilitated the quick start-up and
consistent fast pace of implementation, assignment of staff and timely provision of counterpart
funds; (iii) flexible procurement procedures agreed by the Bank that were appropriate for the
small quantity and dispersion of works, availability of private contractors and timeliness required
in implementation; (iv) effective civil works maintenance which ensured that since 1996
subsequent storms have not so far inflicted damage to the rehabilitated infrastructure; (v) stringent



iv
environmental guidelines which minimized the environmental effect of the works; and (vi)
positive social impact through consultations with local communities that elicited public support,
avoided land compensation disputes. No resettlement was necessary and there was strong
community participation in the preparation of the Watershed Management Plan.
9.    The sustainability of the project outputs will depend significantly on the availability of
funds. As envisioned during project design maintenance of the civil works in the short term will
require adequate budgetary provision, while in the medium to long term external assistance might
be needed. To sustain the institutional strengthening achieved under the project budgetary and
manpower support will also have to be maintained. Implementation of the Watershed Management
Plan, suitably revised, would be a significant means of addressing most sustainability issues. The
Borrower has still not articulated a clear Plan for the Operation Phase, awaiting the outcome of the
consultations on the Plan, but indications have been given that GOSL recognizes the key role of
watershed management in the sustainable use of the country's natural resources. The Bank will
continue the dialogue with the Government to encourage the implementation of the plan.
10.   Overall Bank performance was ratsed highly satisfactory. The Bank's quick response to
the Government's request for assistance, its agreement to flexible procurement procedures and
consistent strong support during implementation contributed to the project's successful outcome.
The Borrower's performance was rated satisfactory. GOSL consistently showed strong
commitment throughout the project, facilitating its timely start and during implementation
providing counterpart funds and making appointments of key staff in a timely manner. The twvo
project implementation units performed effectively, but overall management and administration
particularly of the project accounts was inefficient during the later stages of implementation.
11.   The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, all the development objectives were achieved,
together with the performance indicators established at appraisal.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12. - Plans for the future operations of the project would be finalized after the consultations on
the Watershed Management plan
13.   The key lessons learned from implementation of the project are:
i. Quick, effective and coordinated response from the Donor community, in this case, the
Bank in coordination with other lending agencies, is fundamental to achieve satisfactory
results in emergency situations
ii. The acceptance by the Bank of rnaximum flexibility of procurement procedures for civil
works and goods within the Bank's Procurement Guidelines was of critical importance
to ensuring fast implementation of the project.



v
iii.Environmental guidelines need not be infringed upon because of necessary speed in
design or execution of civil works.
iv. An adequate balance should be sought between swiftness in action, accuracy in design,
compliance with environmental guidelines and proper use of local knowledge and
experience.
v. The active participation of affected communities is important in achieving effective and
sustainable management of watershed areas.
vi. The infusion of local knowledge from national staff can be important in the design of
emergency operations, given the short time window usually available for consultants,
often foreign, to design sometimes complicated interventions.
vii.. The experience of this project once again illustrates how strong Borrower ownership
and commitment contributes significantly to smooth, effective and timely project
implementation. The speed of internal Bank processing of this project, eight months
between identification and Board approval, proves that smaller less complicated Bank
operations can be quickly and efficiently prepared.



SAINT LUCIA
WATERSHED AND ENVIRONiMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
[CREDIT 2768-SLU, LOAN 3925-SLU]
PART I: PROJECT IMP'LEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTFRODUCTION
1.    St. Lucia was hit by Tropical Storm "Debbie" on the night of September 9th - 10th, 1994
causing loss of life and unprecedented damage to the country's hydraulic infrastructure. The storm
re-routed river channels, under cut river banks, filled river channels with silt, and eroded even
protected river banks. The storm also washed out roads and bridges, spread thick layers of debris
on farm land, destroyed standing crops and (lemolished housing. Overall losses were estimated at
US$79 million, which was equivalent to 18 percent of 1993 GDP. The Government of St. Lucia
(GOSL) immediately began relief efforts and. requested international assistance. The Bank and
other donors responded quickly in a co-ordinated manner. The present project was identified in
response to this emergency. The British Development Division in the Caribbean (BDDC) financed
consultants who assisted with project preparation, while the Organisation of American States
(OAS) provided additional technical assistance. Project preparation was expeditiously carried out
within three months, and on January 1 1, 1995 IDA approved a Project Preparation Facility of
US 1.0 million to begin execution of priority rehabilitation works, under Phase I of the project.
2.    The devastation caused by "Debbie" occurred at a particularly difficult time for the St.
Lucian economy, as earnings from the main export, banana, were falling because of increased
competition from Central American banana producers. At the same time concessionary aid flows
were in decline. The storm, therefore, setback the prospects for an early revival of economic
growth.
A.   P'roject Objectives
3.    The objectives of the project were: (i) to begin rehabilitation of the hydraulic infrastructure
of priority watersheds from the damage caused by the flooding and landslides; (ii) to address the
medium and long term requirements for sustainable watershed development by preparing a
Watershed Management Plan which would serve as the basis for more integrated development of
key watersheds; and (iii) to strengthen the Government's capacities in environmental management
and flood preparedness. These objectives were to be achieved with the participation of local
communities and in the process of project implementation, the capacities of St. Lucian
professionals would be improved.



2
4.    These objectives reflected clear and realistic agreements between the Borrower and the
Bank to assist in repairing the damages caused by "Debbie" and to reduce the danger to livelihood
and property from future flooding. They were in line with the Government's macro-economic
policies, supported by the Bank's country assistance strategy, to more effectively manage the
country's natural resources, strengthen and diversify agriculture production and foster
development of the tourism industry. The project also appropriately included addressing the longer
term issues of watershed management in order to mitigate the effect of future storms and
hurricanes and building local capacity, in addition to the short term reconstruction needs.
5.    The project design entailing civil works for rehabilitation of hydraulic infrastructure,
technical assistance and institutional strengthening, was coherent and simple. However, its
administration, involving three weakly staffed Ministries: Planning, Development and
Environment (MOPDE); Works, Communications and Transport (MOWCT); and Agriculture
Lands Forestry and Fisheries (MOALFF) caused a diffusion of responsibility. A high turnover of
Project Coordinators in the MOPDE contributed to delays during the second half of project
implementation. The autonomy of the individual ministries also lessened the Coordinator's
authority which made it difficult at times to obtain their full cooperation. Considering the difficult
logistics for foreign contractors, the abundance of unemployed laborers and idle equipment on the
island, the small size and diversified nature of civil works involved, and the emergency situation
requiring their quick execution, the project provided correctly flexible arrangements for
procurement of civil works.
6.    The project, to be implemented over a two year period, consisted of two parts:
*    Part A: Carrying out of priority river and drainage rehabilitation works and
provision of supervisory engineering services; and
Part B: Preparation of a Watershed Management Plan and Disaster
Preparedness Program
B.    Achievement of Objectives
7.    The objective of rehabilitating the hydraulic infrastructure of priority watersheds was fully
achieved under the project. The works were carried out by small local contractors under the
supervision of MOCWT. They included mainly: resectioning or meander cutting of riverbeds to
increase their carrying capacity, removing silt, debris or boulders from their channels to re-
establish free water flow, and restoring or new construction of bank protection works such as
embankments with rip rap face protection, rock slope protection, gabions and masonry walls. All
such works programmed in the 11 priority watersheds (Cul de Sac, Rouseau, Anse La Reye,
Canarie and Soufriere on the west coast, and Mabouya, Fond d'Or, Dennery, Canelles, Troumasse
and Vieuix Fort on the east coast, see map Nr.26778) were satisfactorily carried out. Construction
of a replacement bridge in Soufriere was completed in November, 1997.
8.    The Government's capacity to plan, design, execute and maintain works for river training,
flood control and flood protection was substantially developed and upgraded under the project. The



3
consultants for Phase I assisted in the establishment and strengthening of a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) within MOCWT for design and implementation of hydraulic works. By the time of the
consultant's departure at the end of July 1995, thlis Unit was strong enough to take over further
implementation of the project. During 1996 and 1997 the PIU was gradually turned into the "River
Management Unit" (RMU) and acquired a more permanent status through its managing of the
River Maintenance Program. The contracting of labour intensive small works and of maintenance
activities with residents of the flood affected areas achieved the development of satisfactory public
relations between the Unit and the population, and enhanced public awareness on requirements for
flood control and protection.
9.   In completing preparation of the Watershed Management Plan (WMP) the project also
achieved the objective of establishing a framework for addressing the long term requirements for
sustainable watershed management. The Plan, currently in draft, requires several refinements
before being finalized but it presents the criteria and guidelines for watershed management and
development. Its preparation was based on studies and data from across the island together with the
testing of several structural and non-structural techniques in two pilot watersheds, Cul-de-Sac ancd
Dennery. The studies included: flood and land hazard mapping, river engineering, bioengineering,
geotechnical/landslide and agronomy trials, together with community participation. The
recommendations for improved watershed and environmental management, however, are presented
as a menu of phased activities for a typical watershed, comprising: infrastructure risk assessment
and protection; solid waste management; water resources utilization; development planning and
control; education and publicity; land conservation; and river system monitoring and management.
T'he plan also presents an institutional development program including establishment of a National
Environmental Council to coordinate implementation of the National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) and the WMP at national level, revamping the Land Conservation Board to oversee
implementation of the Plan at field level, and creation of Watershed Management Action Forces
(WMAF) at community level, a concept that was developed during preparation of the plan.
10.   Although the Plan presents a strategy which includes the ranking of watersheds by the
severity of environmental risks it did not, as proposed in the SAR, identify candidate projects for
further development. A disproportionately large section is devoted to describing the results of the
studies some of which could have been used to better articulate the strategy. This means that the
Plan does not set out specific project components that would have included designs, environmental
evaluations and preliminary social, economic and financial impact assessments. Instead, the
overall capital and recurrent costs of carrying out the recommended activities across the island
were estimated. This is not particularly helpful as it is unlikely that the Government would adopt a
blanket approach by simply increasing allocations to MOCWT or MOALFF. The Plan would
therefore have to be reviewed to identify specific project interventions that could be suitable for
financing which could then be prioritized. It is expected that this refinement will be done
following consultations at a stakeholder workshop planned for July, 1998.
11.   Establishment of the RMU also enabled achievement of the objective of strengthening the
government's capacities in environmental management and flood preparedness. The experience
gained during the course of project implementation was instrumental in improving the performance
of staff in MOALFF and in establishing appropriate methods and procedures. This achievement



4
was further supported by the on-the-job experience gained by the involvement of staff of MOALFF
and other local professionals in the preparation of the WMP.
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.   Rapid Project Processing: An important factor that positively affected project
implementation was the quick response of international agencies to confront the disastrous effects
of "Debbie". On Government's request, the Bank sent an identification mission in'October 1994,
and prompted effective aid coordination arrangements for project preparation principally with
BDDC and OAS, the latter providing a landslide hazards specialist. This joint effort allowed
substantial completion of project preparation by December 1994. On this basis, IDA approved the
Project Preparation Facility mentioned in the Evaluation Summary, par. 1, to initiate timely
implementation of priority rehabilitation civil works, while the Bank continued internally
processing the programmed Credit-Loan combination.
13.   Borrower Ownership: Underlying these efforts was strong Borrower ownership as
government immediately begun its own rehabilitation activities and showed strong commitment
throughout the implementation period. Appropriately qualified staff were quickly assigned to the
project and the key technical specialists remained for the duration of the implementation period.
The Borrower was always prompt in the provision of counterpart funds and when additional funds
were required it immediately sought and obtained further assistance from the British Government.
14.   Flexible Procurement Procedures: Another important factor was the flexibility of the
design and procurement procedures used for project implementation in this exceptional case of
emergency response to a natural disaster. To initiate, in February 1995 under Government and PPF
financing, execution of the required small emergency civil works, the BDDC consultants assisted
MOCWT in developing and applying expeditious and effective works design and works
contracting and execution procedures. Most works were skilfully designed through engineering
sketches and working drawings, which were sometimes adjusted during execution of works.
MOCWT and the consultants decided to contract directly the priority emergency rehabilitation and
protection works. This was due to the small quantity and dispersion of individual works, the
difficulty of preparing reliable quantity estimates in the short time available for engineering, the
abundance of privately owned construction equipment and the high unemployment rate on the
island,
15.   This direct contracting was done through lump sum, fixed-price contracts based either on
hourly equipment rental rates, established in accordance with the list of prevailing rates utilized by
MOCWT, or for some labour intensive protection works, with experienced local contractors on a
measured basis (square meters of rubble walls, cubic meters of gabion works, etc.). Acquisition of
wire mesh and stones for gabion works was carried out using national shopping procedures. In
addition, four vehicles were procured, and acquisition of hydrometering equipment was initiated
using international shopping procedures. By the time of negotiations, June 4, 1995, satisfactory
implementation of physical works under the project had advanced about 30%, and almost 50% of
works execution and procurement of most goods had already been committed.



5
16.   At negotiations, the Bank recognized the justification and cost effectiveness of the above
described speedy design and procurement procedures for this special case, and the efficiency of the
works execution supervision system set up by MdOCWT with assistance of the consultants. With
the intent of supporting the rapid pace of project implementation achieved, the Bank granted at
negotiations maximum flexibility of civil works and goods procurement procedures within the
Bank Procurement Guidelines. Direct contracting of civil works, lump sum contracts based on
hourly equipment rental rates, and national and international shopping procedures for goods, all
within reasonable thresholds, were accepted for project implementation. National competitive
bidding procedures were required only for procurement of civil works costing between
US$100,000 and US$400,000. This decision was fundamental in maintaining the fast
implementation pace of this emergency project.
17.   Balance Between Swift Action and Design Accuracy: The Bank supervision mission of
March 1996 noted an impressive overall progress in execution of civil works, which were expected
to be completed by July 31 of that year. It also stated that the works completed by August 1995
had proven to be fully effective in withstanding the rigors of tropical storms that hit the island the
following September. Nevertheless two strong storms that hit St. Lucia later in 1996, a tropical
wave on October 26, and the tail of tropical storm Marco on November 21, caused severe damage
on the island, some of it affecting areas where storm damage rehabilitation and protection civil
works had been carried out under Phase 1 of the project. Inspection of these damages by MOCWT1[
and MOALFF staff, by BDDC consultants for FPhase II, and by the November 1996 Bank mission,
showed that the damages inflicted to the works executed under Phase 1 were mainly the
consequence of minor design and construction errors induced by the need to take quick corrective
actions after Debbie.
18.   The errors committed in a few locations were the following: (a) deficient alignment of
river defenses, (b) insufficient channel profile control measures, (c) insufficient height of some
gabion walls or embankments, (d) insufficient channeling upstream of bridges, (e) weak junction
of adjacent structures, and (f) shallow foundations. They accounted for approximately eighteen per
cent of the cost of the civil works. The errors wcre duly analyzed and taken into consideration in
the design of the corrective works to be executed under project financing. The additional cost was
accepted as necessary for completion and adjustment of works. A reallocation of loan funds was
agreed to cover this additional cost together with other works identified during implementation
19.   The Bank ICR and final supervision mission established that most of these corrective workcs
had been satisfactorily carried out under project financing or under the 1997/98 Maintenance
Program. The remainder were effectively carriecl out by the end of September, 1997. Only minor
delays in project implementation were experienced. These affected two larger civil works
contracts: construction of Soufriere bridge and flood protection works at Dennery.
20.   Construction of the Soufriere bridge suffered repeated delays and cost increases because of
necessary design changes, the need for which became evident as construction proceeded. These
included additional flood control measures, and a lateral pedestrian passageway to allow widening
of the roadway from one to two lanes. It was cornpleted in November, 1997. The flood protection
works for the town of Dennery were contracted in March 1995 with the second largest contractor
of the island at a cost of US$400.000, which was substantially lower than the bid presented by the
only other bidder. Execution of works was slow and since August 1995 it was affected by



6
increasingly longer interruptions. These were prompted by delays in payments, and by the
contractor's claims on cost overruns and execution delays originated by contradictory instructions
received from the Phase 1 consultant engineer who initially supervised the works and from the
subsequent MOCWT supervision. As a result of disagreement, the contractor carried out 75% of
the work. Eventually, MOCWT decided to liquidate the original contract and agreed settlement
with the contractor. The Ministry then contracted separately with small contractors for the
completion of the originally programmed works
21.   Effective Civil Works Maintenance: During 1995 and 1996 MOCWT carried out minor
maintenance programs of works completed under the project: the first was a program for EC$
315,000 carried out from August to December 1995, and the second was a EC$ 500,000 program
carried out between April and November 1996. These programs were iinsufficient for the actual
needs and MOCWT made the commitment to request annual maintenance programs amounting to
at least EC$ 3.0 million. For the fiscal year 1997/1998 it obtained an EC$ 4.0 million maintenance
program, called "River Desilting/Flood Alleviation and Bank Protection Program". This program
devoted about EC$ 1,300,000 to water channels maintenance works within the city limits of
Castries and the balance to maintenance works in the remaining towns and in the countryside. It
was efficiently managed by MOCWT's "River Management Unit" created under the project. Cost
effective use of available resources under this maintenance program has ensured execution of
many of the actions needed to overcome damages inflicted by the 1996 storms.
22.   Stringent Environmental Guidelines: Guidelines to minimize the environmental impact
of work execution were prepared by the BDDC consultants for Phase 1. These guidelines were
taken into account for the design of required actions and works. However, due to the urgency of
carrying out emergency works, there were some errors at the beginning that contributed to damage
caused by the two 1996 storms (see par. 4 above). The assessment of these damages made by
MOCWT and MOALFF staff, by the British consultants for Phase II, and by the November Bank
missioni, resulted in an upgrading of environmental guidelines and in the reinforcement of their
application. Previous design and execution errors were satisfactorily corrected and stronger
environmental criteria were incorporated into the design guidelines. Present works design and
execution are complying fully with stringent environmental requirements. Furthermore, longer
term environmental considerations have been addressed through the WMP which includes
recommendations on the adoption of better management practices to protect watersheds from
degradation together with structural measures in some areas.
23.   Watershed Management Plan: Preparation of the WMP was delayed because execution
of civil works was the immediate priority, but it was completed in draft by December, 1997. It was
financed with a grant from the British government which allowed the reallocation of project
Loan/Credit funds to finance additional civil works identified during implementation. The work
was contracted to a British consulting firm which included local expertise in the team and received
active support from MOALFF. Unexpected delays in completion of the plan were also due to the
fieldwork required. This involved trials that had to be conducted over a one year period in order to
account for seasonal changes such as different flow levels in rivers, seasonal rainfall patterns, etc.
A significant aspect of the Plan's preparation was the emphasis given to community participation.
This was achieved through the establishment of community action groups in each of the two pilot



7
watersheds that assumed responsibility at the local level for galvanizing community involvement
in several activities such as maintenance of drains and channels, and for public education on the
project. This will be instrumental in achieving long term sustainability of any watershed
management program. Based on this experience in the two pilot watersheds the Plan presents a
model for community management of several activities which the government is already
supporting with resources for the project's operation phase.
24.   Effective Project Management in Early Stages: The organizational structure of the
project called for a high degree of coordination among the implementing agencies. This was
achieved particularly during the early stages of the project through the role played by the Ministy
of Planning, and bolstered by active participation and support from the project's inter-agency
Steering Committee. The Committee met regularly and promptly considered relevant issues.
MOCWT and MOALFF had not previously worked closely together. Under the project they
cooperated effectively in the design and execution of several interventions, for example,
agricultural engineering advice was often important in the design of civil works, while the
engineers of MOCWT participated in the field trials in preparation of the WMP. The project also
became integrated into the work programs of thie two Ministries rather than being considered as a
separate activity thereby facilitating institutional strengthening and a greater likelihood of
sustainability during the operation stage. In the second half of project implementation there was a
high turnover of project coordinators in the Ministry of Planning which resulted in some disruption
to project management, and the Steering Comrmittee met less frequently. By this time, however,
the project had substantially achieved its objectives.
25.   One negative outcome was the absence of systematic monitoring and evaluation of project
activities, which was the responsibility of MOPDE together with the PIU's of the two other
ministries. For example, several Bank supervision missions recommended an analysis of the cost
effectiveness of the civil works but this was never done. The project accounting system was also
sometimes slow in processing the accounts. During Phase I, Crown Agents, the contracted
consultant firm, employed an accountant specifically for the project. In Phase II accounting
responsibilities were divided between MOALFF and MOCWT. MOALFF and MOCWT both used
accountants who were assigned other duties within their respective Ministry which were sometimes
given greater priority than the project's work. The absence of a designated project accountant
during Phase II caused delays in the processing of payments and reconciliation of project accounts.
Furthermore, the Ministries did not communical:e sufficiently with each other so that although the
MOCWT accountant received training and became more familiar with Bank procedures, this
knowledge was not shared with the accountant in MOALFF.
26.   Positive Social Impact: There has been. no resettlement as a result of the project's
activities. The project, however, faced the issue of compensation for land acquired for the
construction of civil works at a few sites, such as for flood protection works and installation of
gabion baskets. Adequate procedures were established for addressing this issue based on
consultations with the claimants and existing procedures in MOCWT, resulting in no unresolved
claims. Early in the project, a series of public consultations had been instrumental in informing
people in the watersheds area of the issues to be addressed in reconstruction after the storm and in
planning for future watershed management. These consultations promoted understanding of the
communities' role and the importance of their participation. The project was able to build on the



public concern and increased social capital generated by the storm, which was a significant
achievement in a social context where traditionally, community based approaches were rarely
pursued. The use of petty contractors from the local communities who in turn hired laborers locally
also generated a positive social impact. There has been significant community participation in the
plan preparation, resulting in the establishment of community action forces in the pilot watersheds
with responsibility for galvanizing and coordinating community based activities. This participatory
approach is being institutionalized within MOALFF (see par. 9 above).
D. Project Sustainability
27.   The civil works established under the project have now been proven capable of
withstanding strong tropical storms. As envisioned during project design, its sustainability will
depend directly on the provision of adequate financial and manpower resources for maintenance,
and indirectly on the implementation of appropriate measures described in the WMP that would
mitigate the impact of future tropical storms. Several sources of funding (internal and external) for
maintenlance need to be considered, supported by some element of cost recovery. In the short to
medium term adequate provision for maintenance in the Government's budget will be necessary.
The allocation for this purpose in the 1998 budget was adequate, and the Borrower has expressed
its committment to future support. Strict application of the environmental guidelines developed
under the project will be required, which should be closely monitored.
28.   The project has strengthened the relevant organizations which are now more capable in the
execution and management of civil works affecting the hydraulic infrastructure. The PIU
estab i shed within MOCWT for design and implementation of works gradually evolved into the
River Management Unit (recommended in the SAR as part of watershed management) and has
now acquired a more permanent status in the management of the maintenance program. It is
important to ensure sustainability of all institutional improvements under the project: in manpower
traininig, organizational set-up, works planning and implementation, and execution of maintenance.
For this purpose the proposal in the WMP of formalizing the Units' status within the structure of
MOCWT is very relevant, but it needs to be provided annually with adequate funding. There are
also proposals to enhance coordination within the proposed Watershed Management Unit in
MOAILFF, with relevant staff of MOPDE and not the least with the general public. A program to
enhance the technical and administrative capacity of the Units' higher level staff should also be
envisaged. Concrete steps to these effects should be included in the Borrower's Plan for the
Operation Phase.
29.   The WMP has presented a strategy for the medium and long term, which with some
improvements would be a suitable planning framework for designing specific interventions in
different watershed areas of the country. The activities establishecl in the pilot watersheds have
begun the process. Availability and efficient use of funds together with political commitment will
therefore be a major determinant of sustainability. During project design it was envisioned that
Government would likely seek grant funds to finance the projects to be identified rather than a
follow-on loan from the Bank. The project has also created a cadre of staff in MOALFF who have
gained significant experience in planning watershed management, in particular, their skills have
been enhanced in community mobilization and participation.



9
E.    Bank Performance
30.   The Bank's performance in all stages of project identification, preparation assistance,
appraisal and supervision can be considered as highly satisfactory. The quick response of the Bank
to the Government's request for assistance and to the need of putting together a productive
international aid co-ordination program was fundamental to the timely effectiveness of the project
and to its successful implementation. Equally important was the Bank's disposition to accept
maximum flexibility of civil works and goods procurement procedures within the Bank
Procurement Guidelines, which implied sanctioning some of the cost effective traditional local
procuremenit procedures that had been successfully used for execution of emergency works under
PPF financing. During project implementation, communications between the implementing
agencies and Bank headquarters, and later the Jamaica Field Office, were highly fluent and
effective. The Disbursement Department also provided highly effective assistance to the
Borrower. Supervision missions were carried out in a timely fashion, provided relevant advice and
established constructive dialogue with the Borrower's staff and consultants, contributing
effectively to the speedy and satisfactory implementation of the project.
F.    Borrower Performance
31.   Preparation of the Project: Highly satisfactory. Fully committed to the project objectives,
the Borrower, assisted by BDDC consultants, took all necessary actions for project preparation in
an efficient and timely manner. and its relevant advice to the consultants greatly influenced the
efficienicy of preparation by the infusion of local knowledge.
32.   Project Implementation; Satisfactory. The difficult topographic, climatic and soil
conditions of the island, the required swiftness in the preparation of the design and in the execution
of small size emergency civil works in scattered locations was difficult to manage. The
coordiniation of different types of supplies and contracts for individual works and the need to
satisfy urgent claims for assistance from the affected population also put a heavy technical and
administrative burden on the staff responsible Ior project implementation. With the effective
assistance of the BDDC consultants for Phase ]L, MOCWT was able to put together a competent
and responsible professional team, which after an accelerated on-the-job training process of six
months was able to efficiently take over projecl: implementation from the consultants. This team
also confronted in a highly professional manner the unexpected damages inflicted by the two 1996
storms and, based on this experience, upgraded the environmental guidelines and technical
specification to ensure stability of works and enforce risk prevention. All local suppliers of goods
and materials and contractors performed in a satisfactory manner, except for the contractor of the
Dennery flood protection works, who delayed and failed to complete work execution. MOCWT
was unlprepared to manage this difficult situation adequately and reach a compromise with
contractors. Full cooperation and support was provided by MOALFF to the consultant team who
prepared the WMP, and successful implementation of the trials was achieved by its staff assuming
responsibility. Failure to appoint a full-time project accountant adversely affected overall project
administration. The Borrower did not contribute its own evaluation of the project and has not yet
made adequate plans for the operation phase of the project.



10
G.   Assessment of Outcome
33.   The project achieved its objectives and also established several of the factors required for
sustainability, it is therefore rated satisfactory. The Borrower showed a high level of ownership and
commitment which contributed significantly to achieving and in some cases exceeding the targets
for the project:
.  Civil works rating:  Highly satisfactory.  As discussed in the previous
paragraphs, the project satisfactorily achieved the objectives of rehabilitation of
the hydraulic infrastructure and consolidation of flood prevention in endangered
locations. Strong environmental guidelines have also been established
*  Preparation of the Watershed Management Plan:       Satisfactory. The
Watershed Management Plan prepared under the project presents a suitable
planning framework for addressing the future protection and development of St.
Lucia's watersheds. The efficacy of the plan was enhanced by its incorporation
of community participation in its preparation and as an integral part of the
recommended strategy.
* Strengthening of the Govermment's Capacities in Environmental Management
and Flood Protection:   Satisfactory. The project substantially strengthened
MOCWT's capacity in flood preparedness through the installation of equipment
and training of staff, and improved its capacity for maintenance of civil works.
Staff of MOALFF also gained good experience in preparation of the WMP as
part of watershed management.
H.   Future Operations
34.   The Plan for the Operational Phase should contain measures to formalise the status of the
River Maintenance Unit within MOCWT, to provide it annually with adequate funding, and to
enhance its coordination with pertinent staff in MOALFF and MOPDE, and with the general
public. A program to enhance the technical and administrative capacity of the Unit's higher level
staff should also be included.
35.   The draft WMP will be reviewed at a stakeholder workshop planned for July, 1998, where
the Bank is expected to participate. The Plan should now be used as the basis for identifying
specific investment projects. This will require seeking funds both locally and overseas, and the
Bank might be approached for further assistance.



'I
I.    Key Lessons Learned
36.   The above analysis of project implementation suggests that the main lessons learned from
the project are:
* Quick, effective and coordinated response from the Donor community, in this case, the
Bank, in coordination with other lending agencies, is fundamental to achieve satisfactory
results in emergency situations.
* The acceptance by the Bank of maxiimum flexibility of procurement procedures for civil
works and goods within the Bank's Procurement Guidelines was of critical importance
to ensuring fast implementation of the project.
. Environmental guidelines should nobt be infringed upon because of necessary speed in
design or execution of civil works.
* An adequate balance should be souglht between swiftness in action, accuracy in design,
compliance with environmental guidelines and proper use of local knowledge and
experience.
* The active participation of affected communities is important in achieving effective and
sustainable management of watershed areas and ensuring government accountability.
* The infusion of local knowledge frorn national staff can be important in the design of
emergency operations, given the short time window usually available for consultants,
often foreign, to design sometimes cornplicated interventions.
* The experience of this project once again illustrates how strong Borrower ownership and
commitment contributes significantly to smooth, effective and timely project
implementation.
* The speed of internal Bank processing of this project, eight months between
identification and Board approval, proves that smaller less complicated Bank operations
can be quickly and efficiently processed.



PART Il: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                         E   =
Sector policies                   _                 V                             O
Financial objectives                    V          El           =
Institutional development               V                   .    l
Physical objectives                     V                  _ *                    O
Poverty reduction                      = ____=__                                  U
Gender issues                           O           Ol
Other social objectives                EL __                    _
Environmental objectives                V   =       O
Public sector management                                                         El _  U
Private sector development                                      El               E ll
B. Project Sustainability                    Likely              nlke             Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                     Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification             X                                                     EO
Preparation assistance                      V                  EO
Appraisal                                   V                  E
Supervision                                                                      El
D. Borrower Performance                 Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                 V_E
Implementation                                                 V                 E _
Covenant compliance                        [ I                                    _
Operation                                   []                                    O
Highly                                         Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome         Satisfactory |Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
Civil Works                                   l
Watershed Management Plan            E       |                                       El



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/                                                     Year of
Credit Title                      Purpose                   Approval       Status
Preceding operations:     None
IFollowing operations:     None



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned               Actual Date
Identification              October 1994              October 1994
Preparation
Pre Appraisal/Appraisal     December 1.994            December 1994
Negotiations                May 1995                  May 1995
Board Presentation         July 11, 1995              July 11, 1995
Signing                     July 14, 1995             July 14, 1995
Effectiveness               October 1995              October 10, 1995
Midterm Review              Not Done                  Not Done
Project Completion          June 30, 1997             December 31, 1997
Loan Closing                June 30, 1997             May 31, 1998
Note: There was no preparation mission, based on pre-appraisal mission it was decided to go from
White Cover to Green Cover without Pre Appraisal/Appraisal Mission.



16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY              96    97                98
Appraisal Estimate        2.0   3.3               na
Actual                    3.8   0.6              .9 *
Actual as % of Estimate    190    18              Na
Date of Final Disbursement: May 30, 1998
Note: Most of the Project was completed by the end of 1996 and during 1997 and 1998.
* Priority was given to execution of the civil works (financed by the loan), therefore most works
were completed by the end of 1996. During 1997 and 1998, implementation focused on
preparation of the Watershed Management Plan and only minor works remain to be completed.



17
Table 5 - Key Indicators of Development Outcome/Impact
Key Indicator   Expected               Key Indicators   Start Date            Entity              Actual
in Staff           Result                                                     Responsible
Appraisal
Report                                       _
Request PPF        Approval            Countersigned      January 27/95       MOPI)E              Completed
Letter
Open Special       Initiate            Initial IDA/IBR.D   February/95        MOPDE               Completed
Account            Disbursement        Deposit
Establish Project    Pus Operational   Staff in Place     February/95         MOPDE               Completed
Units                                                 _
Prepare TORs for   Initiate            Consultants in      February/95        MOPDE               Completed
Consulting         Recruitment         Place
Engineers          Process
Initiate           Start Repair Civil   Percentage of     March/95            MOPDE/MOCWT   Completed
Contracting for    Works               Works Completed
Petty Contracts of
Repair Works
Prepare TORs for   Recruit Hydromet   Adviser in Place    July/95             MOALFF/MOCW    Completed
Hydromet Adviser   Adviser                                                    T
Prepare            Invitation for Price  Bid Award        July/95             MOALFF/MOCW    Completed
Specifications for   Quotations                                               T
hydromet
Equipment and
instruments
Prepare            Invitation for      Bid Award          July/95             MOPDE               Completed
Specifications for:   Proposals
(i) benchmark and
river surveys; (ii)
hydromet data
collection system;
and (iii) pilot land
slope specification.
Ministry of        Condition of        Deposits in Project  June/95           MOPDE/MOCWT   Completed
Finance approval    Cr./Ln.            Account
of 1995/96 budget   Effectiveness
for counterpart
project funds and
deposit in project
account amount
estimated to cover
first four months
of execution costs.



18
Approval of       Complete           Number of         July/95            MOPDE/MOALF   Completed
contracting of    rehabilitation     Contracts executed                   F
balance of civil  works
works
Request proposals   Contracting of   Expected Outputs:  July/95           MOPDE/MOALF   Completed
for preparation of   study           (i) WMP                              F
Watershed                            (ii) Pilot WMP
Management Plan                     (iii) WM Project
(iv) Policy
Proposal; and
(v) Institutional
Development
Program                   _
Complete          Completed          Program           January/96         MOCWT              Completed and
remaining         Rehabilitation     completion                                              additional works
rehabilitation civil  Works Flood                                                            identified and
works             Prevention                                                                 completed by Dec.
97
WMP               Review with        Agreed changes    July 30, 1996      MOPDE              Completed and
recommendation    Bank/IDA                                                                   presented in WMP
for legal and
institutional
changes                     .
Resettlement plan   Define Policy    Promulgation of    July 30, 1996     MOPDE              No resettlement
for WMP                              Policy                                                  required
Monitor efficacy    Updated          Carrying capacity   August 1995      MOCWT              Monitoring being
of civil works to    maintenance and    of river channels in                                 carried out by
control and/or to   rehabilitation   relation to normal                                      River Management
diminish flood    program            river flow                                              Unit (RMU)
incidence
Monitor flooding    Indication of    Land area flooded,  August 1995      MOALFF/MOCW    Monitoring being
of land under food   additional river  value of crops lost                T                  done by RMU
and export crops    training and/or
bank stabilization
Determine         Recommendations  Land slides, soil    After each storm  MOALFF/MOCW    Carried out by the
environmental     regarding land use  erosion, river    occurrence        T                  two Pus
impact resulting  management,        water pollution
from storm-caused  agricultural
flooding and      practices
landslides                          I                 I                  I                  I                 I
**Note: Table 6 - Future Monitoring of the Project by the Borrower: The Borrower intends to
monitor project impact by measuring Key Indicators, to be defined when it completes
preparation of the Plan for the Post-Investment Phase and intends to inform the Bank.



19
Table 7 - Studies Included in Project
Study             Purpose             Status          Impact of Study
1. Review of       Input to preparation  Completed        Included in draft
existing watershed   of WMP.                              WMP.
plans, strategies, and
legislation.
2. Develop disaster   As above.        Completed          As above
forecasting and
warning systems
3. Review relevant   As above          Completed          As above
agricultural, social,
economilic,
environimental, land
tenure and
institutional data
4. Assess          As above            Completed          As above
implementation
procedures,
maintenance
provisions and
institutional
arrangements.
5. Collect         To derive criteria fDr Some completed  Contributed to
hydrological and   design of river     others on-going    effective design of
geomorphological   works and to                           river bank
data               produce hazard                         stabilization works
maps                                   and preparation of
hazard maps for
___ ___ __ ___ __   __ ___ __ ____  pilot watersheds



20
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ thousand)
Appraisal Estimate             ActuaUlatest Estimate
Item                  Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs                 Costs      Costs
1. REHABILITATION WORKS                            L
River training, debris clearing        844      1,264      2,108      3967 _                 3967
Resectioning, bank stabilization      929       1,649      2,578       554         874       1428
drains' clearing, desilting
Unassigned 1996 works                 253        378        631        556                    556
Sutbtotal                        2,024      3,293      5,317      5,077        874      5,951
Vehicles (4)                             0         67         67         65                    65
TA for Engineering Services             84       474         558                   345        345
Reliabilitation Total            2,108      3,834      5,942      5,142       1219      6,361
11 WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
PLANN ING
A. Studies and Equipment
River Surveys                        14         35         47         28                    28
Landslides surveys                   13         27         40        114         43        157
Hydromet equipment                   25        139        164                    60         60
Slope stabilization methods          64         61        125         78         61        139
Subtotal                          116        260        376        220        164        384
B. Planning and Project Preparation    46        579        625         46        409        455
C. Disaster Prevention and Partici-    21        136        157         21         96        117
pation
WVatershed Management Total         183        975      1,158        287        669        956
Total Project Cost                     2,291      4,809      7,100      5,429      1,888      7,37



21
Table 8B - Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate               Actual
(USSM)
Source     Local  Foreign          Local  Foreign
Costs    Costs   Total  Costs   Costs       Total
Government   1.30              1.30   1.22                 1.22
Bank          0.45     2.2    2.65   2.55      .10        2.65
IDA           0.45     2.2    2.65   1.65      1.00       2.65
ODA           0.10     0.40    0.50            .79         .79
Total              I                      I         I
2.30     4.80    7.10   5.42     1.89       7.31
**Note: Table 9 - Economic Costs and Benefits is not applicable and thus not included.



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Section    Covenant            Fulfillment  Fulfillment
______  Type    Status     Date         Date                Description of Covenant           Comments
2.02 (b)        01        C                               The Borrower may for the purpose of the Project  Done
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit
account in the National Commercial Bank of St.
Lucia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Acct. shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4, of Agreement.
2.03            05        C                               The Closing Date shall be June, 30, 1997, or  Following
such.                                       an extension
the Project
closed on
12/31/97
3.01 a)        (05        C                               The Borrower declares its commitment to the  None
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project through MOCWT, MOALFF and
MODPE with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate engineering,
environmental, hydrological, administrative,
financial and managerial practices and the
Project Implementation Plan, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
3.01 (h)        02        C                               Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph  Done
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i)
maintain in a bank acceptable to the Assoc., an
account (the Project Account) under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Assoc., for
purposes of depositing in such account the
Borrower's counterpart funds required for the
carrying out of civil works under the carrying
out of civil works under the project; and
(ii) maintain in the Project Account, at all times
during the Project implementation, a positive
monthly balance equal to at least $50,000
equivalent
3.01 (c)      05         C                              Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph  Done
(a) of this Section, tlhe Borrower shall carry out
an environmental analysis as part of the
engineering design of each civil work under the
Project. and shall implement the mitigatory
measures that may be recommended by each
such analysis.



23
3.04          05                                            Without limitation to the provisions of Section  Done
9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
reports of such scope and detail as the
Association may reasonably request, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project pursuant to the monitoring and
evaluation indicators set forth in the Project
Implementation Plan, as follows:
3.04 (a)       05          C                                 Not later than September 30, 1995 and           Received
September 30, 1996                             March 1997
3.04 (b)       05          C                                 Not later than March, 31, 1996, in respect of the   None
twelve calendar months preceding the date of
said report.
3.05          05         C                                  The Borrower shall review with the Assoc. by no  None
later than April 30, 1996, or such later date as
the Assoc. shall request, the report referred to in
par. (b) of Section 3.04 and thereafter take all
measures satisfactory to the Assoc. , required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project
and the achievement of the objective thereof;
3.06a         05          C                                 Maintain within MOPDE, until the report         Done
referred to in Section 9.06 (c) of the General
Conditions has been prepared, a unit with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association which shall include, inter alia: (i)
coordination of the implementation of the
Project; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of the
Project; (iii) preparation of the reports referred to
in Section 3.04 of the Credit Agreement.
Agreement and Section 9.06 (c) of the General
Conditions; (iv) processing of documentation
required for disbursement of Credit proceeds and
for procurement of goods, works and consultants
services under the Project, and (v) maintenance
of the records and separate accounts referred to
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
3.()6 (b)      05          C                                 Ensure that the unit referred to in (a) above is at   An
all times staffed with at least a Project Manager,   accountant
and a full time accountant to manage the Project   has not been
Account and the Special Account; and a         assigned
procurement officer professional with          exclusively
qualifications satisfactory to the Assoc. and shall  to the
be assisted by clerical staff in adequate numbers.  project. Each
PIU receives
the services
of an
accountant
from that
Ministry on
a part-time
basis. The
functions of
the
procurement
officer were
carried out
until July
1995 by the
consultant



24
resident
engineer.
Since then
there has
been none.
3.07         05        C                               Without limitation to the provisions of par. (a) of  Studies
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower  under Parts
shall complete the carrying out of Parts B2 and    B.2 and B.4
B4 of the Project not later than July 30, 1996  financed by
BDDC were
completed
on 12/30/97
3.08         05        C                               In the event that the Borrower undertakes or  No
cause to be undertaken any resettlement of  resettlement
population as a result of P.1, the Borrower shall   has been
(a) prepare & furnish to the Assoc. a resettlement  necessary.
plan, satisfactory to the Assoc., & (b) promptly
carry out the corresponding resettlement plan
referred to in (a) herein in accordance with its
terms
4.01 (a)      05         C                               The Borrower shall maintain separate accounts    Done
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part of thereof.
4.01 (b)      05        Soon                             Furnish to the Association as soon as available,   Due
but in any case not later than four months after    10/31/97,
the end of each of such year, a certified copy of   not yet
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such   received.
scope and in such detail as the Assoc. shall have
reasonably requested.
4.01 (c)      05         C                               Maintain or cause to be maintained, in      Done
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures.
6.01 (a)      05         C                               That the project account has been opened and an   Done
amount equivalent to at least $150,000 has been
deposited therein.
6.02        05         C                               The date October 12, 1995 is hereby specified  Actual:
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General    October 10,
Conditions.                                 1995
Covenant Types:                                                 Present Status:
I = Account/audits                                              C = Compliedwith
2  = Financial Performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  CP = Partially complied with
5  = Management aspects of the project or executing agency      NC = Not Complied with.
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9       Soon = Compliance Expected
in a reasonably Short Time
**Note: Table l1 - Compliance with Operational Manual Statements is not applicable and thus not
included.



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned'              Revised2                Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle    Weeks      US$        Weeks       US$       Weeks        US$
Preparation to
Appraisal                                                      62.3       219.7
Appraisal                                                       9.5        26.1
Negotiations
through Board
Approval           4         11.5        2.2         .3         4.2        2/.2
Supervision        13        70.2        1 7        61.0       11.2       45 _ 03
Completion         5         17.0                                728.0                                   U
TOTAL                                                        94.2       346.0
Historical Infonnation only partly available.
2 Idem
Estimate
4 [dem



Table 13: - Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Rating5
Specialized
Stage of                  Number of    Days in    Staff Skills   Impl.    Devel.          Type of
Project Cycle  Month/Year   Persons          Field     represented    Status     Objs.    Problems
Through            10/94          3            4        ec, wrs, eng
appraisal          11/94          1             8           env
12/94          1            8           env
1/95          1            9            soc
Appraisal      No Appraisal
through Board     Mission
Approval                                                                                                         M
Supervision        7/95           1            5            eng          s          s
3/96           1            5           env          s          s
10/96          2            6         nrm, eng        s         s
3/97           1            2           nrm          s          s
Completion         8/97           2           10,7        nrm, eng       s          s
Coding:      ec  = economist
eng = engineer
nrm  natural resources management
soc  social scientist
Ratings: s = satisfactory



