Report No. PIC1906
Project Name         St. Lucia-Watershed and Environment Management
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Environment
Project ID                     LCPA39455
Borrower                       Government of St. Lucia
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Works (contact Mr. John
Peters)
Ministry of Agriculture
Contact: Mr. M. Satney
Office of Planning
Contact: Mr. C. Springer,
Tel: 809-452-3688)
Appraisal Date                 January 1995
Projected Board Date           March 1995
1.   BACKGROUND.  Unanticipated torrential rainfall on September 9-10,
1994 in St. Lucia led to widespread flooding, massive landslides and
runoffs. Although hydrologic data is very weak, the "Debbie" storm
clearly was one of the country's worst historically. Many facilities
were destroyed, public services were disrupted, and there were heavy
farming losses.
2.   In response,   the Government speedily and successfully launched
emergency relief operations, which have helped restore essential
services. These also have begun to contain and somewhat remedy
"Debbie's" infrastructural effects, although rehabilitation works are
being hampered by more recent rains. Nonetheless, the damage done
will figure importantly in the reversal of the country's recent
economic success (real GDP growth of 5 percent in 1991-93). Only
marginal growth is projected for 1994-95. Foreign exchange earnings
are being significantly reduced while social hardships have increased,
particularly among the many small farmers. However, the storm's main
significance was its impact on the fragile, already stressed natural
resource base which is fundamental to the country's future.
3.   Soil erosion is a major problem in St. Lucia where steep
topography predominates. About a fourth of all lands are too steep
for current agricultural practices and suffer from severe soil
degradation. Massive, widespread landslide activity is one of the
principal erosion factors, producing debris flows whose removal and
attendant road repairs are major problems. Torrential rains exceeding
150 inches in the interior are common. These conditions have been
worsened by continuing environmental degradation from agriculture
(especially banana) production moving increasingly to higher, more
vulnerable valley slopes, reducing native vegetation. These have
steadily decreased water retention capacity, subsequently overtaxing
drainage systems. Agriculture is also constrained by the overall
small land area, equally small sized farms producing small quantities,
skewed distribution of lands (many without title) and absentee



ownership. These factors have crimped export diversification.
4.   Agriculture has been excessively dependent on banana production,
which grew from average exports of less than 30,000 tons p.a. in the
early 1980s to over 110,000 tons midway through the decade (over
120,000 in 1993). Bananas have been for some time the country's most
adequate crop and the staple of its growth. But this situation is now
jeopardized with the upcoming ending of preferential arrangements for
banana sales to Western Europe. Under the new EEC trade regime, St.
Lucia will continue to have access to that market for some 127,000 ton
exports. However, present developments project further, and future
sharper, price declines because of increased competition with
countries that produce bananas at lower cost and with equal,if not
better, quality. Anticipating these changes, the current and past
Governments have tried to diversify agriculture, which efforts have
had limited success.
5.   These concerns were given greater urgency by "Debbie", which
inundated already partly saturated agricultural acres, rerouted
channels, scoured banks and deposited thick silt layers. About 50
percent of banana production acreage was affected; 20 percent was so
severely damaged that may take years to redress. The anticipated
total banana loss over the next 18 months is calculated at about US$29
million, with the remainder of agriculture and related activities
raising the sum to about 12 percent of GDP in 1993. Remedying this
setback is the main objective of the Government's current
rehabilitation and reconstruction program, for which the authorities
requested Bank assistance. They particularly seek to salvage as much
of the upcoming crop prospects as possible and to maximize civil works
activity in the January-June 1995 dry season.
6.   The Government also asked for technical assistance to help guide
and initiate better land and water use policies, bearing in mind
"Debbie's" damage. The loss of considerable agricultural land will
create additional pressure on existing resources, possibly increasing
encroachment on the forest slopes. Damage from even much milder
future storms would consequently increase, and the lower ends of some
now debris-laden valleys may lose certain crop suitability. The
Government accordingly is pursuing an appropriate strategy to deal
with these consequences. It also recognizes the need to redirect its
overall development along securer lines. St. Lucia's economy has
already been undergoing some structural transformation towards reduced
agricultural dependence. To advance these ends, the authorities
recently issued a medium term economic strategy document and are
receiving assistance in examining future development options.
7.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES.   The proposed project's main emphases would
be on: (a) rehabilitating the productivity of the land base to pre-
"Debbie" status so as to prevent a collapse of production capability;
(b) preparing and launching an integrated watershed (or water
resource) management strategy; and (c) enhancing St. Lucia's machinery
for environmental management and flood preparedness. The project
would be complemented by broader based investments at a later stage,
which other aid sources plan to undertake. EU (Stabex), ODA, CIDA are
already engaged in collateral operations.
- 2-



8.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION.   The project will include the following
components:
-    Fortification of six catchment areas to permit renewed
agricultural production through desilting, sediment removal,
river resectioning/training, restoration of damaged water
intakes, etc. These would not include major civil works or
bridge and feeder road repairs, which other assistance
sources are providing.
-    Planning of programs for strengthening Government
institutional capabilities, including hydrological and
forecasting systems, monitoring of potentially severe
flooding conditions, and for carrying out environmental,
reconstruction and disaster mitigation activities. Small
amounts of supporting equipment would be provided, and
training to expand local skills.
-    Technical assistance also for design and engineering of more
substantial civil works, and for preparation of strategies
and implementation programs in watershed or water resource
management.
9.   COSTS AND FINANCING.   Project costs would be about US$6 million.
A 50 percent loan - 50 percent Credit is being sought. The British
Development Division (ODA) may be requested to help finance the
abovementioned technical assistance components, supplementing its
support of the consultant services employed for project preparation.
10. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUSTAINABILITY. All operations would
be managed by a central project entity coordinating the activities of
the Ministries of Agriculture (MAG), Works and Communications (MOW)
and the Planning Office. MOW would direct the civil works.
Investments in civil works (the major component) would protect
existing infrastructure, whose sustainability would be enhanced by
proposed project provisions.
11. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS. Environmental aspects are embodied in the
project. Agricultural technical support services and natural resource
management components are to be directly aimed at improving the
sustainability of production systems and at adequately protecting
ecological resources.
12. BENEFITS AND RISKS. The project will help to fully restore the
damaged infrastructure and to remove institutional constraints, as a
means of raising small farmer incomes, and also reducing the impact of
future floods. The risks stem from the somewhat weak institutional
base, which could obstruct the project's timely execution.
13. CURRENT STATUS. The project is being prepared and appraisal is
tentatively scheduled for January 1995.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
- 3-



1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



