Page  1
                                               CONFORMED COPY
                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2768-SLU
                Development Credit Agreement
      (Watershed and Environmental Management Project)
                           between
                          ST. LUCIA
                             and
            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated July 14, 1995
                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2768-SLU
                DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1995, between ST. LUCIA (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS  (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)  the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to two million six hundred and
fifty thousand Dollars ($2,650,000) (the Loan);
      (C)  the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan are
made; and
      (D)  by agreement dated January 27, 1995, (the BDDC Financing
Agreement), British Development Division in the Caribbean has agreed
to make technical assistance available to the Borrower in an aggre-
gate principal amount equivalent to $500,000 (the BDDC Financing) to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in the BDDC Financing Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
Page  2
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                          ARTICLE I
               General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
                 "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
                 otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
                 on account of expenditures in the territories of
                 any country which is not a member of the Association
                 or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
                 such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
                 payment to persons or entities, or for any import
                 of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge
                 of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of
                 the United Nations Security Council taken under
                 Chapter VII of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)  "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the "General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank,
dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
      (b)  "MOALFF" means the Borrower' ministry responsible for the
portfolio of agriculture, land, forestry and fisheries;
      (c)  "MOCWT" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for the
portfolio  of communications, works and transport;
      (d)  "MOPDE" means the ministry responsible for the portfolio
of planning, development and environment;
      (e)  "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (f)  "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan dated May 23,
1995, which provides for: (i) a work program and an implementation
schedule for the Project; and (ii) the monitoring indicators for
Project evaluation;
      (g)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the
Letter of Agreement, signed by the Association on January 11, 1995,
and by the Borrower on January 27, 1995, and to the letter of amend-
ment to the Letter of Agreement signed by the Association on June
23, 1995, and by the Borrower on June 27, 1995;
      (h)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (i)  "Watershed Management Plan" means the plan, satisfactory
to the Association, to be prepared under Part B.2 of the Project.
Page  3
                         ARTICLE II
                         The Credit
      Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
1,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the National
Commercial Bank of Saint Lucia on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1
Page  4
commencing August 1, 2005 and ending February 1, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2015 shall be one and one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                         ARTICLE III
                  Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOCWT, MOALFF and MOPDE with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate engineering, environmental, hydrological,
administrative, financial and managerial practices and the Project
Implementation Plan, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain in a bank acceptable
to the Association, an account (the Project Account) under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of
depositing in such account the Borrower's counterpart funds required
for the carrying out of civil works under the Project; and (ii)
maintain in the Project Account, at all times during Project
implementation, a positive monthly balance equal to at least $50,000
equivalent.
      (c)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall carry out an environmental analysis
as part of the engineering design of each civil work under the
Project, and shall implement the mitigatory measures that may be
recommended by each such analysis.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article
Page  5
IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)  prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six
months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
      Section 3.04.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, reports of such scope and detail as the
Association may reasonably request, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project pursuant to the monitoring and evaluation
indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, as follows:
      (a) not later than September 30, 1995 and September 30, 1996,
in respect of the six calendar months preceding the date of each
such report; and
      (b) not later than March 31, 1996, in respect of the twelve
calendar months  preceding the date of said report . Such report
shall also recommend the measures to ensure the efficient completion
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
including a budget for the implementation of the Project during the
period remaining until the completion of the Project.
      Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall review with the Association,
by not later than April 30, 1996, or such later date as the
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b)
of Section 3.04 and thereafter take all measures, satisfactory to the
Association, required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
      Section 3.06.  Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)  maintain within MOPDE, until the report referred to in
Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions has been prepared, a
unit with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association which shall include, inter alia: (i) coordination of
the implementation of the Project; (ii) monitoring and evaluation
of the Project; (iii) preparation of the reports referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement and Section 9.06 (c) of the General
Conditions; (iv) processing of documentation required for disburse-
ment of Credit proceeds and for procurement of goods, works and
consultants' services under the Project; and (v) maintenance of the
records and separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement;
      (b)  ensure that the unit referred to in (a) above is at all
times staffed with at least a Project manager, an accountant to
manage the Project Account and the Special Account, and a procurement
officer.  The Project manager, the accountant and the procurement
officer shall be full-time professionals with qualifications satis-
factory to the Association, and shall be assisted by clerical staff
in adequate numbers; and
      (c)  ensure that the unit referred to in (a) above is at all
times provided with adequate space to carry out its responsibilities.
      Section 3.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall complete the
carrying out of Parts B.2 and B.4 of the Project not later than July
30, 1996.
Page  6
      Section 3.08. In the event that the Borrower undertakes or cause
to be undertaken any resettlement of population as a result of Project
implementation, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to any such undertaking
prepare and furnish to the Association a resettlement plan, satis-
factory to the Association; and (b) promptly thereafter, carry out or
cause to be carried out the corresponding resettlement plan referred
to in (a) herein in accordance with its terms.
                         ARTICLE IV
                     Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)  The Borrower shall:
           (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                 graph (a) of this Section including those for the
                 Special Account and the Project Account for each
                 fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                 auditing principles consistently applied, by
                 independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                 in any case not later than four months after the end
                 of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
                 such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                 such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                 requested; and
           (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                 concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                 thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                 reasonably request.
      (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
           (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                 paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                 reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
                 has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                 which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                 payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                 records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                 and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
                 such records; and
           (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
                 in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                 this Section and that the report of such audit
                 contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                 whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                 during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
                 dures and internal controls involved in their
                 preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                 related withdrawals.
                           ARTICLE V
                 Remedies of the Association
Page  7
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)  Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, the right
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the BDDC Financing shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the BDDC Financing Agreement.
      (b)  Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination  is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are avail-
able to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                         ARTICLE VI
                 Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)  that the Project Account has been opened and an amount
equivalent to at least $150,000 has been deposited therein; and
      (b)  that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date October 12, 1995 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.03
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate or the date twenty years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earliest.
                         ARTICLE VII
          Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for the portfolio of
finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
           Permanent Secretary
           Ministry of Planning, Development and Environment
           P.O. Box 709
           Castries, St. Lucia
           Cable address:              Telex:
                 Prime Minister        3416243 SLUPM
                 St. Lucia
                                       Telefax (809) 452-2506
      For the Association:
           International Development
            Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
Page  8
           Cable address:              Telex:
                 INDEVAS               248423 (RCA)
                 Washington, D.C.       82987 (FTCC)
                                        64145 (WUI) or
                                       197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                       ST. LUCIA
                       By /s/ Joseph Edsel Edmunds
                                    Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ Sri-ram Aiyer
                               Acting Regional Vice President
                              Latin America and the Caribbean
                              SCHEDULE 1
       Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                    Amount        Amount
                    of the        of the
                    Credit         Loan          % of
                   Allocated     Allocated     Expendi-
                  (Expressed    (Expressed       tures
                    in SDR       in Dollar       to be
      Category    Equivalent)   Equivalent)    Financed
(1) Goods            70,000      110,000     100% of foreign
                                             expenditures,
                                             100% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             (ex-factory cost)
                                             and 75% of other
                                             items procured
                                             locally
(2) Works           330,000    1,010,000     75% of local
                                             expenditures
(3) Consultants'
    services        340,000      540,000     100%
(4) Refunding of                             Amounts due
    Project                                  pursuant to
    Preparation                              Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance         960,000                  of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                  990,000
                    =======      =======
TOTAL             1,700,000    2,650,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  9
      (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
      (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures".
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 510,000 equivalent, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after January 1, 1995.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
made for goods, works and consultants' services costing less than the
equivalent of: (i) $25,000 in the case of goods; (ii) $250,000 in the
case of works (other than the first two contracts to be awarded
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.4 (a) of Section I of Schedule 3
to this Agreement); (iii) $50,000 in the case of consulting firms'
services; and (iv) $25,000 in the case of individual consultants'
services.
                         SCHEDULE 2
                 Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) rehabilitate the
hydraulic infrastructure of priority watersheds from the damage
caused by floodings and landslides which resulted from tropical
storm "Debbie" and to enhance the maintenance of such infrastruc-
ture in order to reduce the immediate danger of future floodings
to livelihoods and property; (b) address the medium and long term
requirements for sustainable watershed development; and (c)
strengthen the Borrower's capabilities on environmental management
and flood preparedness.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Rehabilitation Works
      Carrying out of priority river and drainage rehabilitation works
and provision of supervisory engineering services thereof, including,
inter alia: (a) removing of boulders and debris deposited in river
beds and desilting of the channels thereof; (b) resectioning of river
beds to permit safe passage of discharges; (c) restoring of existing
river training and bank protection works; and (d) construction of new
river trainings and bank protection infrastructure.
Part B:    Watershed Management Plan and Disaster Preparedness
1.    Carrying out of studies for the preparation of the Watershed
Management Plan.
2.    Preparation of a plan to address the medium and long-term
requirements for sustainable watershed development in the territory
of the Borrower, including, if necessary, a population resettlement
policy to support such plan.
3.    Designing of a program of pilot watershed management projects.
4.    Preparation of an institutional development program to implement
Page  10
the Watershed Management Plan and the pilot projects referred to in 3
above.
5.    Carrying out of surveys to develop criteria for future design
of river works and for hydrologic mapping.
6.    Carrying out of tests of methods for arresting soil movements.
7.    Installation of equipment for hydrological data collection and
analysis.
8.     Strengthening of the Borrowers' capabilities for flood and
storm forecasting.
                                *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                         SCHEDULE 3
            Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:    International Competitive Bidding
      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section I, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix I thereto.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Hydrometering equipment which the Association agrees can only
be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines (limited
international bidding procedures).
2.    Vehicles, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $70,000,
and gabion baskets up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of inter-
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Stones, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.    Works: (a)  estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$400,000 but $100,000 equivalent or more, per contract, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines (national competitive
bidding procedures); and (b) which are required to respond to the
immediate danger of future floodings threatening lives and property
in the Borrower's territory, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,302,000, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines (direct contracting); such direct contracting may be
awarded on the basis of lump sum, fixed price contracts based on
an hourly rate established in accordance with the list of prevailing
rates utilized by MOCWT for equipment rental, dated February 1995
(the official hourly rates), and submitted to the Association as of
Page  11
May 25, 1995, or on the basis of contracts entered into on an hourly
rate based on the official hourly rates.
5.    In the procurement of works in accordance with Part C.4 (a)
above the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents approved by
the Association.
Part D:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract: (a) to be awarded pursuant to
the provisions of Part B and C.1 of this Section; and (b) the first
two contracts for works to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of
Part C.4 (a) of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part D, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:   Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have
been agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms accept-
able to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Associa-
tion review or approval of budgets, short-lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $25,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to
prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (c) single source selection of firms;
(d) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Association; (e) amendments of contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent; or
(f) amendments of contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent.\
                         SCHEDULE 4
                       Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement;
Page  12
      (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
      (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Con-
ditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,600,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                 for deposits into the Special Account at such
                 intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                 documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                 paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                 payments in respect of which replenishment is
                 requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                 the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                 withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
                 Account and deposit into the Special Account
                 such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                 and as shall have been shown by said documents
                 and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                 Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
Page  13
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto;
      (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
      (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
applicable General Conditions; or
      (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association or the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)  Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
Page  14
