Z,Al 3 t :; I   S LuL
LOAN NUMBER 39 25 -SL L
Loan Agreement
(Watershed and Environmental Management Project)
between
ST. LUCIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                ,1995


﻿LOAN NO. 3q 9       -SLO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated J- 19     I Lj /        1995, between ST. LUCIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
between the Borrower and the International Development Association (the Association)
of even date herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and by the Development Credit
Agreement the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to one million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDRI,700,000) (the Credit);
(C)    the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the
proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are
made; and
(D)    by agreement dated January 27, 1995, (the BDDC Financing Agreement),
the British Development Division in the Caribbean has agreed to make technical assistance
available to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $500,000 (the
BDDC Financing) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in the BDDC Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons
or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the United Nations."
(c)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (1) and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Preamble to this Agreement, the General Conditions and in the Development Credit
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Development
Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two million six hundred and fifty
thousand Dollars ($2,650,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.
(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
(c)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)     "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.


﻿-4-
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the -utstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 3i, i982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
of a calendar year.
(d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read
as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on
February I and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE m
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, Sections 2.02 (b) and
Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 4
thereto are incorporated in the Loan Agreement, with the following modifications in said
Sections and Schedules unless the context otherwise requires:
(i)     the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";
(ii)    the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be read as "Loan"
and "Loan Account";
(iii)   the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the Development
Credit Agreement";
(iv)    the term  "General Conditions" shall be read as "General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of
the Bank dated January 1, 1985; and
(v)     the references to Sections 9.06 (a) (iii) and 9.06 (c) of the
General Conditions shall be read as references to Sections 9.07
(a) (iii) and 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions.
(b)    So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified
otherwise by the Bank:
(i)     all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association
pursuant to any of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the
Development Credit Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of
this Section, as well as pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the
Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or
given in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the
Bank; and
(ii)    all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to
* the Association pursuant to the provisions of any of such
Sections of the Development Credit Agreement or Schedules
thereto shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Association
and the Bank.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)    Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, the right of the Borrower
to withdraw the proceeds of the BDDC Financing shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the BDDC Financing
Agreement.
(b)    Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectivoness of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date OJo0  e          , 1995 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior to the
termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement
referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the Borrower
and the Bank.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for the portfolio of finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Planning, Development and Environment
P.O. Box 709
Castries, St. Lucia
Cable address:       Telex:
Prime Minister             3416243 SLUPM
St. Lucia
Telefax:      (809) 452-2506
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ST. LUCIA
By                    "   S       VY~3 %AQ  0d
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    C'(       j~~V      ~   j?-
Sv1J      Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each February I and August I
beginning February 1, 2001,
through February 1, 2010,                       135,000
and on August 1, 2010.                           85,000
*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 10 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                  Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                  0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                    0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                  1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Dcvelopmcnt.
FOR SECRETARY


