Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
July
10, 2002
Mr. 
Nikola Gruevski
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev
7
Skopje
Re:
Global Environment Facility Grant for Lake Ohrid Conservation Project
(Grant  No. TF020428)
Amendment to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement_____________________
Dear Mr. Minister:
We refer to the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant Agreement for Lake Ohrid 
Conservation Project between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
acting as an Implementing Agency of GEF  and the Recipient, dated August 6, 1998 (the Agreement), 
and your letter, dated March 21, 2002, requesting amendment to the Agreement. Pursuant to your 
request, the Bank agrees to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 is amended by deleting the 
“and” at the end of Subsection (g), substituting “; and” 
for
”.” at the end of Subsection (h) and adding new Subsections (i), (
j
), (k) and (l) to read:
“(i) “Beneficiary” means any community group or association which is a recipient or proposed to 
be a recipient of a Sub-grant (as defined hereafter) under Part C (ii) of the Project; 
(
j
)
“Sub-grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the PIU out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project (as defined hereafter); 
(k) “Sub-project” means a community-based project for Lake Ohrid protection and/or 
conservation financed or proposed to be financed from the grant facility under Part C (ii) of the Project, 
and selected in accordance with the principles and procedures, and eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual
(as defined hereafter); and
(l) “Operational Manual” means an operational manual adopted by the Recipient and setting 
forth principles, procedures and criteria for the implementation of Part C (ii) of the Project , and referred 
to in paragraphs
7
and
8
of Schedule
4
to this Agreement.” 
2.
Section 2.02 (a) is amended to read:
“(a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures 
made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the PIU on 
account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for a Sub-program under Part C (ii) of the Project in respect of which the 
Page  2
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account is requested.
”
3.
Section 5.01 is amended to read:
“Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
(a) the Memorandum of Understanding shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
terminated, waived or otherwise modified so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Recipient to perform its obligations under this Agreement; and
(b) the  Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated, waived 
or otherwise modified without the prior consent of the Association.”
4.
A new disbursement category (5) Sub-grants under Part C (ii) of the Project is added in the table 
in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
which now reads as set forth in Annex  to this Amendment Letter.
5.
Paragraph 4 (iii) of Schedule 1 is amended to read:
“(iii) payments for Sub-grants under Part C (ii) of the Project and recurrent operating costs, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.” 
6.
Part C (ii) of Schedule 2 is amended to read:
“(ii) provision of Sub-grants to Beneficiaries to carry out selected Sub-projects aimed at Lake 
Ohrid conservation and protection;”
7.
In Part B of Section I of Schedule 3 the following new paragraph 4 is added:
“4. Community Participation
Goods, works and related services required for Part C (ii) of the Project may be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank and specified in the Operational Manual.”
8.
At the end of Schedule 4 the following new paragraphs 7 and 8 are added:
“7. The Recipient shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content satisfactory to the 
Bank and shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or otherwise modify the Operational 
Manual without obtaining the prior approval of the Bank.  The Operational Manual shall cover, among 
others, the following matters: (a) eligibility criteria for Sub-projects and Beneficiaries; (b) the principles 
and procedures for the approval of Sub-projects; (c) community contribution requirements; (d) the terms 
and conditions to be included in grant agreements with Beneficiaries; and (f) the indicators to be utilized 
by the PIU in monitoring the progress of Sub-projects.
8. The Recipient shall ensure that Sub-projects are designed and implemented in compliance with 
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank and in compliance with all applicable laws and 
regulations of the Recipient relating to health, safety and environmental protection, and in compliance 
with the Operational Manual.”
Page  3
Please confirm your agreement on behalf of the Recipient with the above amendments by 
signing, dating, and returning to us one of the original copies of this Amendment Letter.
Upon receipt by 
the Bank of the copy of this Amendment Letter countersigned by you, this Amendment Letter will 
become effective as of the date of your countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:  /s/
Kathryn A. Funk
Acting Country Director and Regional Coordinator
for South East Europe
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
RECIPIENT
By:
/s/
Nikola Gruevski
Title
Minister of Finance
Date:
July
30,
2002
Page  4
ANNEX
Amount of the GEF Trust Fund
% of 
Grant Allocated
(Expressed in
Expenditures 
Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Works
70,000
75%
(2) Goods
400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and
85%
of local expen-
ditures for other items
procured locally
(3) Consultants
’
services
600,000
100%
and training
(4) Recurrent Operating
260,000
100%
Cost
(5) Sub-grants
200,000
100%
under Part C
(ii)
of the Project
(6) Unallocated
150,000
TOTAL
1,680,000
