Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 020428
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Lake Ohrid Conservation Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
(the Recipient)
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
(the Bank)
Dated August 6, 1998
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 020428
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 6, 1998, between the RECIPIENT and the BANK acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from 
the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; and
(D)
Albania has also requested GEF to provide additional financing towards 
the financing of the Project by an agreement of even date herewith between Albania and 
the Bank (the Albanian Grant Agreement) has agreed to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to one million three hundred-seventy thousand 
Page  2
Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,370,000) (the Albanian Grant).
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(16), (17), (19) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (k), (l), (m), 
(n), (o) and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Section 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an implementing 
agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" 
shall also include the Bank acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (q) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."
Page  3
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Albanian PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established pursuant 
to the Government of Albania’s Decision No. 522 dated August 26, 1996 within Albania’s 
Committee for Environmental Protection;
(b)
"Local Coordinator" means the local coordinator for each of Parts A and C 
of the Project, the project manager for Part B of the Project and the local 
representative of the REC (as defined hereinafter) for Part D of the Project, and 
referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
"LOMB" means the inter-governmental Lake Ohrid Management Board  
established pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding (as defined hereinafter) and 
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) and (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
"Memorandum of Understanding" or "MOU" means the memorandum of 
understanding dated November 29, 1996, between the Government of the Recipient and the 
Government of Albania for the conservation of Lake Ohrid and referred to in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement;
(e)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Urban Planning, Construction and Environment in March 1996 
pursuant to the MOU;
(f)
"Project Coordinator" means the Project Coordinator appointed by the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Urban Planning, Construction and Environment referred to in 
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Project Director" means the Project Director within the PIU  referred to 
in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million six hundred eighty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,680,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices and with due regard 
to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Page  4
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that: the Memorandum of Understanding 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated, waived or otherwise 
modified so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Recipient to 
perform its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions: 
(a) 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Albanian Grant 
Agreement, have been fulfilled, other than these relating to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement;
(b)
four Local Coordinators have been appointed for each of Parts A, B, C and 
D of the Project with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank; and
(c)
a detailed work program and procurement plan for the first year of 
Project implementation have been submitted to the Bank by the PIU, setting out 
detailed implementation and procurement plans acceptable to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
91000 Skopje
Telex:
51 119
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RECIPIENT
By /s/ L. Acevska
Authorized Representative
BANK 
acting as Implementing Agency of the 
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
By /s/ A. Chhibber
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
70,000
75%
(2)
Goods
     450,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures
(3) 
Consultants’
     850,000
100%
 services and training
(4)
Recurrent Operating
     160,000
100%
Costs
(5)
Unallocated
     150,000
TOTAL
   1,680,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and
(c)
the term "Recurrent Operating Costs" means operation and maintenance 
costs of the PIU which would not have been incurred absent the Project and including, 
Page  7
inter alia, costs with respect to: (i) transportation; (ii) communications; (iii) 
office accommodation, equipment and supplies; (iv) utilities and maintenance; (v) 
salaries (other than salaries of government officials); and (vi) audits required under 
Section 4.01 of this Grant Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for:  (i) expenditures for goods under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (ii) for consultants’ services and 
training under contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent; and (iii) recurrent 
operating costs under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to develop a basis for the joint management and 
protection of Lake Ohrid by the Recipient and Albania and thereby promote 
cost-effective solutions to transboundary natural resources management and pollution 
problems and provide a basis for the sustainable economic development of the Lake 
Ohrid watershed.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening capacity of public officials in environmental licensing, 
inspection functions and in enforcement of environmental laws, regulations, standards 
and practices of the Recipient and Albania through the provision of technical 
assistance, training and equipment.
Part B:
Establishment of a Lake Ohrid Monitoring Program
Establishment of a bi-national monitoring program for Lake Ohrid and carrying 
out monitoring activities in Lake Ohrid through the provision of equipment, technical 
assistance and training and the carrying out of small works.
Part C: Lake Ohrid Watershed  Management
(i) Establishment of a watershed management committee for Lake Ohrid; (ii) 
carrying out of pilot activities to protect and conserve Lake Ohrid; and (iii) 
adoption and implementation of a watershed action plan for Lake Ohrid, through the 
provision of technical assistance, training  and equipment.
Part D:
Public Awareness and Participation Campaign
Carrying out a public awareness and participation campaign on environmental 
issues related to Lake Ohrid and increasing community participation in conservation 
and protection activities through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
equipment.
Part E:  Project Implementation Support
Provision of equipment, training and consultants’ services, including the 
carrying out of audits required under the Project, to assist the PIU in Project 
implementation.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $ 100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $580,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C: 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to:  (i) contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more; and (ii) the first contract for works awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
(A)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures 
the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received; 
(B)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(C)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f) and 2(g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  9
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 as revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for legal and regulatory assessments, water quality monitoring studies, 
data management, feasibility studies, watershed management plans and project impact 
assessments under Parts A, B, C and E of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for Part D of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing under Part E of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
Page  10
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall, at all times during Project implementation, maintain:
(a)
a Project Coordinator within the Recipient’s Ministry of Urbanism, 
Construction and Environment responsible for overall Project coordination within the 
territory of the Recipient and for serving as joint secretary of the LOMB, whose 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
the Project Implementation Unit reporting to LOMB and the Project 
Coordinator, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank including, 
without limitation, the carrying out of procurement activities for all parts of the 
Project, and with a Project Director and staff whose qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank; and
(c) 
for each of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, a Local Coordinator, 
reporting to the Project Coordinator, responsible for coordinating the activities in 
each respective Part of the Project, whose qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference are acceptable to the Bank.
2.
The Recipient shall cause:
(a)
Parts A, C, D and E of the Project to be carried out through the PIU in 
coordination with the respective  Local Coordinator for such Part of the Project, and 
under the supervision of the Project Coordinator; and
(b)
Part B of the Project to be carried out by the Hydrobiological Institute 
of Ohrid, in coordination with the PIU and under the supervision of the Project 
Coordinator.
3.
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project Director and the Local Coordinators 
participate in all meetings of LOMB.
4.
The Recipient shall take all necessary measures to ensure that any investment 
activities initiated under Part C of the Project are carried out in accordance with 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank.
5.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
6.
The Recipient shall submit to the Bank on January 31 and July 31 in each year, 
commencing with January 1, 1999, and until Project completion, progress reports 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  11
(a)
the term "eligible Categories means Categories (1), (2) (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
Page  12
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
