Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.19982
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 3549-HU)
December 29, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 15, 1999)
Currency Unit       Hungarian Forint (HUF)
IHUF   =   US$0.004
US$1   =   HUF 250
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(per US$1)
1994        1995         1996           1997            1998          1999 (Dec)
105.2       125.7        125.7          186.8           217.7           250.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EU  - European Union
ERR  - Economic Rate of Return
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
IDA  -  International Development Association
IS  - International Shopping
KHT  - Regional Road Management Public Companies
KTI  -  Hungarian Institute of Transport and Science
LCB  - Local Competitive Bidding
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOI  - Ministry of Interior
MTCWM   - Ministry of Transport, Communication and Water
Management
NBH      National Bank of Hungary
PIU  - Project Implementation Unit
PMS  - Pavement Management System
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
UKIG  - Road Management Coordination Directorate
HUNGARY'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Roger Grawe, ECCO7
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Teamn Leader Peter Parker, ECSIN
Responsible Staff: Jacques Bure, ECSIN
Robert Nooter, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 3549-HU)
CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE.
EVALUATION SUMMARY.1i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..............................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..............................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ..............................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................................7
D. Project Sustainability .............................................                                         9
E. Bank Performance ..............................................9
F. Borrower Performnance .............................................                                         10
G. Assessment of Outcome .............................................                                         10
H. Future Operations .............................................                                             11
I.  Key Lessons learned .............................................                                          12
PART  II: STATISTICAL               TABLES                        ............................................ 13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ............................................                                   14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ........................                                                   16
Table 3: Project Timetable ........................                                                            17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................... 17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................           18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................................              19
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ...................................................                       20
Table 8A: Project Costs .2..........................1 21
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................                                                         21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................                                                 21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................                                                 22
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..........................................     23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................                              23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .........................................                                   24
APPENDIX
A. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Map (IBRD 24044)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 3549-HU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Roads Project in Hungary,
for which Loan No. 3549-HU in the amount of US$90 million equivalent was approved on
December 22, 1992 and made effective on May 12, 1993.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1999, compared with the original closing date June 30,
1997. Funds were almost fully disbursed as of October 25, 1999, and a small balance is being
cancelled. No co-financing was provided to the Project.
The ICR was prepared by Jacques Bure and Robert Nooter of the Infrastructure
Department, Europe and Central Asia Region (ECSIN), and reviewed by Peter Parker (Program
Team Leader) and Eva Molar (Sector Leader). The Borrower provided comments that are
included as Appendix A to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in June 1999. It is based on material in the project
file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing documentary information
and presenting views reflected in its own evaluation of the project's execution in Appendix A.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 3549-HU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Hungary is a landlocked country in Central Europe, sharing borders with seven countries.
Road density is equal to the Western European average, but the technical condition of its
transport infrastructure remains below European standards in terms of quality and safety. The
Government has identified four main priorities for transport policy and infrastructure
development: (i) the promotion of European Union integration within the transport sector; (ii) a
more balanced regional development and more efficient transport organizations; (iii) the
protection of human life and the environment; and (iv) efficient and market-oriented transport
regulations. Maintenance of the road network was seriously under-funded in 1990 and 1991, and
pavement strengthening was financed at a much lower level than in the 1970s. In this context,
the Government requested that the Bank support the maintenance of the national road network,
to help reduce the heavy maintenance backlog. The Hungary Roads Project was approved in
December 1992 in response to this request.
Project Objectives
2.    The Project had three specific objectives: (i) to enhance the efficiency of public
expenditure on the road network through new management, planning and programming
techniques; (ii) to address the backlog of rehabilitation works; and (iii) to improve road safety.
The Borrower and the Bank agreed on minimum levels of maintenance expenditure for each year
of implementation, and on a set of actions to improve road safety. There were no modifications
of the original objectives during the implementation of the Project.
3.    The Project, which was supported by a US$90 million IBRD Loan (No 3549-HU), was
implemented from 1993 to 1999 by the Ministry of Transport and Communications and Water
Management (MTCWM). The Ministry of Interior also participated in the implementation of the
road safety component.
Project Accomplishments
4.    The efficiency of public expenditures on roads was fostered through the implementation
of an Institutional Development Program (IDP), with support from Hungarian scientific
institutes, universities and local consultants, and with the assistance of foreign road agencies and



iii
consultants. The IDP resulted in the adoption by MTCWM of improved management, planning
and programming techniques, and enhanced quality control; restructuring of the public sector
road maintenance organizations and upgrading of their testing laboratories; and by increasing the
proportion of works carried out by competitive contracting, which reduced road construction
costs by an estimated 20 percent. A Pavement Monitoring System was introduced and is in use,
and road surface treatment techniques were substantially improved. Routine maintenance was
enhanced by the supply of road maintenance equipment.
5.    The Project contributed significantly to improved road safety results, with the number of
road fatalities having fallen by roughly one third during the six years of Project implementation.
This was primarily the result of the introduction of 50 km per hour speed limits in urban areas,
the compulsory use of safety belts and lights in daytime, increases in penalties in the event of
breach of traffic rules, and increased police enforcement.
6.    The road maintenance backlog was reduced during Project implementation through the
use of financing from the Bank loan, although less than expected at the time of appraisal.
Pavement conditions were improved for the primary and secondary networks, thus allowing the
users to travel at lower cost and with less limitations.
7.    Financing mechanisms and working principles of the Road Fund were reformed during
the implementation of the project. A vehicle tax was introduced, the fuel tax was put on an ad
valorem basis from January 1998, and some of the investments toward the improvement of the
motorway network were financed through the budget. Starting in June 1989, expenditures, both
capital and recurrent, on the national highway system were financed from the Road Fund,
including the Bank loan itself. However, Road Fund expenditures, and the corresponding level
of fuel taxes, were subject to annual approval by the Parliament, so that the Road Fund was little
different in practice from a traditional budget procedure. The Road Fund was abolished in late
1998 when the Government decided that all funding and borrowing should be channeled through
the Ministry of Finance. Budget levels for road maintenance have not risen as anticipated at
appraisal, however, and the current budget level is not adequate to prevent the future
deterioration of the road network, especially the secondary roads.
Project Sustainability
8.    The sustainability of the Project achievements related to the improvements in the
efficiency of road maintenance operations seems likely as the Government observes the
usefulness of the new procedures and practices. Also, the organizational changes are in place
and are not likely to be reversed. Improvements in road safety are sustainable as the laws and
operating procedures are in place, and there is a growing public awareness of the importance of
road safety. The improvement in the road tax structure is likely to be retained for the same
reason. The situation regarding the backlog of deferred maintenance is more uncertain, however,
with the abolishment of the Road Fund and budget levels that are not adequate to prevent further
deterioration of the road network, due in part to the current emphasis on motorway construction.



iv
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
9.    Overall, the project is rated as "satisfactory" in that it achieved its major objectives of
improving the efficiency of public expenditures on the road network, reducing the backlog of
rehabilitation works (although to a lesser extent than expected at appraisal), and improving road
safety. The actual average ERRs for road and bridge rehabilitation were 36 and 29 percent
respectively compared to ERRs of 18 and 28 percent estimated at time of appraisal.
10.   The Bank's performance in all aspects of the Project cycle was satisfactory. There were
no deviations in Bank policies or procedures in project implementation. Project supervision was
adequate. The Bank team included participation by several specialists in road maintenance
management, Road Fund management and training programs.
11.   The overall performance of the Borrower and the concerned Government agencies was
also satisfactory in all phases of the project cycle except for meeting the financing requirements,
and the Borrower complied with all covenants under the Loan except for clause 4.02 (the
availability of funds for core maintenance activities in 1995 and 1996).
12.   There are no specific plans for a follow-on project at this time. However, there is a need
for further institutional improvements in the road sector including establishing a technically and
economically based system of expenditure decision-making, rehabilitation of existing motorways
and non-high speed roads and bridges, privatization in inter-city bus transport, and possibilities
for further road safety improvements.
13.   Two lessons emerged from the Project experience. Because the status of the Hungarian
road network is representative of the situation in most of the Eastern European countries, it is
expected that these lessons are transferable to other situations:
(a)   There is a tendency for the Government to use the road budgets to expand the
road network, whereas there are few incentives for allocating adequate resources
for maintenance although ERRs for maintenance operations are usually quite
high. Maintenance activities need to be given higher priority by the Government
if the road networks are to be sustained and overall transport costs reduced. This
could be done by greater efforts to educate the road users, the public at large and
the Government's financial and technical managers on the need for an appropriate
level of road maintenance financing and the consequent savings that would
accrue to their benefit.
(b)   It is possible to achieve a significant reduction in road accidents through a
coordinated road safety program.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 3549-HU)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Hungary is a landlocked country in Central Europe, sharing borders with seven countries.
The Hungarian road network is diversified to integrate its 93,000 square kilometers of territory,
and to serve the needs of its population of about 10 million. Road density is equal to the Western
European average, but the technical condition of the infrastructure remains below European
standards in terms of quality and safety. Combined transport has not yet been developed to the
same extent as in Western Europe. The Government has identified four main priorities for
transport policy and infrastructure development: (i) the promotion of European Union integration
within the transport sector; (ii) a more balanced regional development and more efficient
transport organization; (iii) the protection of human life and the environment; and (iv) efficient
and market-oriented transport regulation.
2.    Significant transit traffic is crossing the country in East-West and North-South directions.
The internal traffic is largely determined by the traffic generating and concentrating effects of the
capital, Budapest. In Hungary 87 percent of the passenger transport and 45 percent of the goods
transport are channeled through the public road network. The level of motorization is increasing
very significantly (203 passenger cars per 1000 inhabitants in 1997) following the shift toward
individual cars from public transport in the early 1990s.
Box 1. General Data about Hungary (as of 1997)
Area:      National Roads:      Public        Average Traffic on Motorways:
93,030 km2  30,000kms          Passenger      18,000 pcu/day
Cars:
2,092,000
Population:  Local Public Roads:   Trucks:    Average Traffic on Main Roads:
10.3 million  76,000kms        238,000        5,500 pcu/day
GDP:       Private Roads:      Buses:         Average Traffic on Secondary Roads:
3,060       53,000kms          22,000         1,300 pcu/day
USD/person _II                               I
3.    The rate of modernization and maintenance of the main road network did not keep pace
with the rapid traffic growth in 1990 - 1994, and the condition of the network was rapidly
deteriorating by the end of that period. During the identification of the Project in 1992, the Bank



2
estimated that pavement strengthening and rehabilitation investments had the highest economic
priority, with economic rates of return in the 20-30 percent range. At the same time, the
Government wanted to extend its motorway system rapidly, but was constrained by existing debt
and an economic slowdown during 1991-1995.
4.    Maintenance of the road network was seriously under-funded and pavement
strengthening was financed at a much lower level than in the 1970s. An average of 1800 km a
year were rehabilitated in the 1970s with an average 4 million tons of asphalt used each year.
Those quantities fell to 800 km and 2 million tons during the 1980s, and 500 km and 1 million
tons in 1991. In this context, the Government requested that the Bank support the maintenance
of the national road network and assist the Government to reduce the heavy road maintenance
backlog. The Project had three specific objectives:
(a) First, to enhance the efficiency of public expenditure on the road network through the
provision of financing for new management, planning and programming techniques: by
strengthening of the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Water Management
(MTCWM) in road management, training of the maintenance personnel, updating of national
standards, establishing of an environmental monitoring system in the sector, and promoting
bitumen technology.
(b) Second, to address the backlog of rehabilitation works: by financing maintenance and
rehabilitation of roads and bridges through support to the annual rehabilitation program for roads
and bridges (pavement strengthening, asphalt overlays, surface dressing, widening of narrow
sections of roads, and bridge repair on selected roads).  The project also financed the
procurement of road maintenance equipment.
(c) Third, to improve road safety: by designing a road safety program, including the treatment of
selected dangerous intersections, the provision of road safety equipment (e.g., radar's,
ethylotests) and public education aids.
5.    The Borrower produced a Strategic Plan for Maintenance, as agreed at negotiations. This
plan laid out a comprehensive approach for clearing the backlog of pavement and bridges
rehabilitation, and determining the optimum maintenance program for the long tern. A Core
Road Maintenance Program was agreed upon'. Minimal levels of expenditure were set as a
condition to the Project for each year of implementation (see table in paragraph 12). Regarding
road safety, the Borrower agreed to implement through the Project: (i) works to reduce the
number of dangerous intersections; (ii) public education; and (iii) enforcement of road safety
regulation. The Borrower also declared its intention to introduce a reduction of the speed limit in
heavily populated areas to 50 km from 60 km per hour.
6.    There was no modification of the initial objectives during the implementation of the
Project. Both the Borrower and the Bank have been monitoring the Project objectives, and have
agreed that these objectives were not over-optimistic.  Implementation and development
objective ratings were monitored during biannual implementation missions.
1 The Core Road Maintenance Program meant (i) the debt service under the Road Fund (the Road Fund was established in 1989),
(ii) current maintenance, and (iii) roads and bridges repair and rehabilitation.



3
7.    The Project, which was supported by a US$90 million IBRD Loan (No 3549-HU), was
approved by the Board of Executive Directors on December 22, 1992, and implemented from
1993 to 1999 by MTCWM. The Ministry of Interior participated in the Project with the
procurement and utilization of road safety equipment to enforce traffic regulation and the
issuance of public education aids.
B.   Achievement of Objectives
8.    At the time of appraisal, the Bank estimated that the risks for inadequate project
implementation were low, which has been confirmed over the six years of implementation. In
retrospect, the project objectives were realistic and the efforts that were expected from the
Government took into account a realistic pace for the reforms that were needed to enhance public
expenditures financing, and also planning and introducing new programming techniques. The
Project achieved its main objectives, specifically (i) enhancing management and planning
techniques; (ii) addressing the backlog of rehabilitation works; and (iii) improving road safety:
(i) Enhancing the efficiency of public expenditures on the road network through the provision of
financing for new management, planning and programming techniques:
9.   The Institutional Development Program (IDP) started in late 1993 when the Program
Manager appointed task managers to carry out a set of actions that were agreed upon at the
appraisal phase. The IDP contained nine actions, each of which was elaborated and implemented
through the preparation of studies and the use of foreign expertise and experience gained from
study tours. Each action had its financial framework and work program outlined. Hungarian
scientific institutes, universities and local consultants, assisted by foreign road agencies and
consultants, supported the implementation of the IDP. The program was completed successfully
in 1998. The results are summarized as follows:
* Action 1  Development of Road and Bridge Management Systems: Operable road and
bridge management systems were developed on the basis of a combination of the World
Bank HDM-3 model and the Finnish HIPS for roads and the PONTIS system used in the
United States for bridges.
* Action 2  Training of operating center personnel:  The program of training managed
outside of the school system was carried out through: (i) vocational training in road
maintenance, and (ii) regular post-gradual training for medium and high-level technical staff.
The program included the procurement of teaching aids, which contributed significantly to
the efficiency of training.
* Action 3: Updating of key road standards: A new system of technical specifications was
introduced together with the updating of the directives for road surface treatments (see action
4).
* Action 4: Increasing the lifetime of surface treatment: New techniques were introduced
that resulted in a significant improvement of the lifetime of the surface treatments. These
favorable developments were backed up by new standards, directives and other supporting
materials.



4
* Action 5: Establishing an environmental protection system for the national roads: A group
of experts prepared a global environmental action plan under the auspices of MTCWM. The
group issued estimates of financial implications of the plan in the short, medium and long
term.
* Action 6: Traffic control and traffic safety: Studies were made regarding: (i) identification
and assessment of accident black spots; (ii) a system of accident data collection; (iii)
evaluation of road safety; and (iv) methodology for safety audits. These studies proved to be
very useful to the participants of training programs that followed the studies. A wide range
of staff involved in road safety participated in the training, including staff responsible for the
management of the road network, inspectors, and traffic police staff.
* Action 7: Development of road fund type financing: This action was dropped as agreed
with the Bank, and funds were reallocated to the other actions under IDP. Nevertheless, a
seminar on Road Management and Financing was organized at the completion of the Project.
The participants--IFI staff, governmental authorities, road management institutions, civil
organizations and scientific organizations--expressed their views during round-table
discussions. The participants made recommendations regarding the establishment of a Road
Fund Board, and explored various ways to increase the revenues of the Road Fund.
* Action 8: Public involvement in the decision making processes: A committee reviewed the
existing regulatory framework regarding the rights of the public in participating in the
decision making process regarding the construction of new infrastructure, and numerous
public hearings were held. The committee concluded that the existing regulations2 were
suitable to allow the public to participate in the decision-making process.
* Action 9: Technical Assistance for Maintenance of the Local Road Network: First, a
geographic information system for local road registration was put in place. This action
allowed road officials of the local governments to be trained to maintain the newly
established database. The legal framework associated with the maintenance of the local road
network was also reviewed, and it was concluded that the existing framework was
satisfactory.
10.  In addition to the actions described above, the Borrower calculated the economic rates of
return (ERRs) for the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and bridges to be included in the
Project, which account for 80 percent of the Project cost. The weighted average ERR was 18
percent for the roads and 28 percent for the bridges. It was agreed that only components with an
ERR higher than 12 percent would be financed under the Project. The Bank's Design and
Maintenance Model (HDM-3) was calibrated to conform to the conditions of the Hungarian
network. The Borrower also contributed to the development of the new HDM-4. Regular road
and bridge condition surveys were conducted during the Project. High output measuring devices
were introduced to measure more quickly the physical condition of the network, and the data was
entered into a databank to guide the allocation of funds.
2 Concept and codification of the Act on Public Utility (APU), and the proposed revision of the APU, together with justification
for such revision.



5
11.   The number of road maintenance districts was reduced, and the district road
organizations were reorganized as public not-for-profit corporations (Regional Road
Management Public Companies, or KHTs) in 1996. The reorganization of the KHTs constituted
an important step forward toward the commercialization and rationalization of road maintenance
in Hungary. The KHTs contract with the Government and also with local authorities (mainly at
the municipality level), and establish their own personnel policies. They received new equipment
under the Project, and winter maintenance, grass mowing and maintenance of safety barriers
were expanded. Their testing laboratories were reorganized and upgraded by the provision of
new equipment and training for the laboratory personnel, and quality control procedures were
improved and strengthened.
12.   Competitive bidding procedures were introduced after a public procurement law was
adopted in mid-1995. The new law provided the public domain with competitive procedures,
thereby enhancing the prospects for economy and efficiency in the use of public funds. Periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation works under the Project have been largely contracted out since
that time. The KHTs still conduct routine and winter maintenance operations under force
account, with the costs of these operations monitored by the Road Management and
Coordination Directorate (UKIG). The overall effect of the improvements in operational
procedures and the use of competitive bidding has been a reduction in road construction costs by
some 20 percent.
(ii) Addressing the backlog of rehabilitation works:
13.   The level of road maintenance has been increased and the road maintenance backlog has
been reduced through the expanded program made possible by the Bank financing, although to a
lesser degree than expected at the time of Project appraisal. Maintenance works financed under
the Project were delayed during the years 1995 and 1996 due to a lack of counterpart funding,
which resulted in a six month freeze in implementation of the works in 1996. The Project was
rated "unsatisfactory", both with regard to the Implementation Progress and Development
Objectives, during this period because road maintenance and rehabilitation financing were
inadequate and lower than the relatively modest levels agreed during negotiations, as shown in
the table below and described also in paragraphs 17 to 21:
(1992HUF Billion) 1992   1993   1994    1995   1996    1997   1998   1999
Agreed           4.37    4.90    7.11    7.37    7.46    n-a    n-a    n-a
Actual           5.28    7.30    10.10   6.33    5.02    6.10    7.7    8.1
(budget)
14.   This inadequate financial support was due to: (i) reduced revenues flowing to the Road
Fund because of lower than expected traffic volumes; (ii) too rapid implementation of the
motorway expansion program (which diverted revenue from core maintenance activities under
the Road Fund to finance investment); and (iii) excessive borrowing against the Road Fund,
depriving the latter of needed maintenance funds. The Borrower budgeted additional financing
for road maintenance in 1997 (by about one-third in real terms over the actual amounts spent in



6
1996), though they still fell somewhat short of the stipulated levels in real terms. The authorities
declared, in September 1996, that additional Road Fund revenues that became available would
be spent on road maintenance, and no new road investment would be financed under the Road
Fund. An examination of actual physical road rehabilitation and maintenance conducted by the
Bank in May 1997 revealed that efficient use of the limited maintenance funds was indeed being
made. As a result disbursements were activated again in December 1997.
15.   At the time of project preparation, it was not anticipated that Hungary's economic and
budgetary situations would deteriorate to the degree they actually did during the implementation
phase. This situation resulted in the shortage of maintenance funds mentioned above. The
budget pressures noted in 1995-1996 decreased slightly during the last two years of
implementation of the Project, but the need for funds to build 500-600 kilometers of motorways
still provided intense competition for the financing of maintenance expenditures.
16.   The financing mechanism  and working principles of the Road Fund were reformed
during the implementation of the project. A vehicle tax was introduced, the fuel tax was put on
an ad valorem basis from January 1998, and some of the investments toward the improvement of
the motorway network were financed through the budget rather than through the Road Fund.
Unfortunately the reform has not proven to be long lasting, as the Road Fund was abolished in
late 1998. This action was the result of a decision by the Governnent to limit borrowing
authority to the Ministry of Finance, thus putting an end to independent financing arrangements
such as the Road Fund. The abolishment of the Road Fund was decided along with a broad set
of cancellations of similar financing mechanisms in other ministries.
(iii) Improving road safety:
17.   The Project has contributed greatly to improving road safety conditions, with the number
of road fatalities having fallen by roughly one third over the six years of implementation of the
Project. Road accidents and fatalities were as follows:
Number of Accidents
1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996       1997      1998
Total  24,500    24,600    19,500    20,700    19,800    18,400    18,000    20,150
Fatal  1,875      1,850     1,460     1,390     1,400      1,250     1,250     1,240
18.   Under the Project, the Government initiated an Action Plan to improve road safety3. The
main measures under the Plan were (i) the introduction of 50 km per hour speed limit, from a
3 Government Resolution No 2036/1993 (IX.9.) sets out (i) the acceptance of the National Program of Transport Safety, (ii) the
establishment of a financing scheme of program implementation, (iii) Transport Minister's responsibilities toward transport
safety, (iv) the establishment of an inter-ministerial committee, and (v) the elaboration of yearly action plans corresponding to the
available financial resources.



7
previous limit of 60 km per hour, in urban areas; (ii) the compulsory use of subdued lights at
daytime; (iii) the compulsory use of built-in safety belts including in the rear seats; (iv) a
significant increase in penalties in case of breach of traffic rules; and (v) an increase in police
control (for which the Project financed the supply of equipment). As a consequence, Hungary
has succeeded in reducing traffic fatalities by about 45 percent since its 1990 peak, compared,
for example, to a 20 percent increase in the Czech Republic during the same period. Hungary
alone among the Central and Eastern European countries has succeeded in restoring fully the
traffic safety level of the period before 1990. However, a slight increase in 1997-1998 indicates
that this trend may be slowing down. In spite of this improvement, Hungary's road fatality rate
is still about 50 percent higher than the EU average. The total socio-economic cost (direct and
indirect) of road accidents in Hungary is still approximately US$1.4 billion, or 3.0 percent of
GDP, which is a significant drag on economic development. Much, therefore, remains to be
done to further improve road safety.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
19.   There have been two factors that have affected the Project: (i) the low level of financing
of core maintenance activities during the years 1995 and 1996, and (ii) slippage in the
procurement of equipment for the safety component.
(i) the low level offinancing of core maintenance activities during the years 1995 and 1996:
20.   Core road maintenance expenditures fell 14 percent below  the level agreed at
negotiations in 1995 and 33 percent below the agreed level in 1996. In early 1997 the Bank
informed the Borrower that disbursements would be suspended until appropriate measures were
taken. UKIG explained that it spent 1.8 billion BHUF more than usual on winter maintenance in
1996 due to an unusually severe winter. These expenditures were not reflected in the core
maintenance budget4. In addition, UKIG contributed 2.8 BHUF to the reform of the road
maintenance organizations (UKIG subsidized the KHT's working capital in accordance with
Hungarian law in 1996). Here again, the expenditures were not reflected in the core maintenance
budget. The Bank concurred that this represented an advance payment for maintenance work,
and therefore could be considered as part of the core maintenance budget even though it was not
in the original definition. After these two items were included, core maintenance expenditures in
1996 increased to a level that was in substantial compliance with the project's maintenance
covenant. In addition, the Borrower undertook to: (i) spend any fiture additional Road Fund
revenues for road maintenance purposes; and (ii) finance new road development directly from
the budget. As a result of these decisions, and because other aspects of the project were
proceeding well, the Bank agreed to resume disbursements and to extend the project closing date
by one year, to June 30, 1998.
21.   The Bank and the Borrower agreed, however, that the core maintenance program, as
defined for the project, was below the level needed to maintain the main and secondary road
networks. UKIG prepared a Road Maintenance Strategy Study that estimated that much more
4As agreed at appraisal, core maintenance activities included routine maintenance and rehabilitation of roads and bridges only.
The 1.8 B3UF that was spent for additional winter maintenance in 1996 was budgeted under operational cost expenditures, and
was not considered as part of the core maintenance expenditures.



8
needed to be spent on road maintenance, but this level of expenditures was not agreed by
MTCWM. The Bank also visited typical roads and estimated that the Government would need to
spend about 20 billion BHUF to maintain existing roads plus an additional 12 billion BHUF per
year at 1996 prices over a fifteen year period in order to catch up with the maintenance backlog,
approximately twice the maintenance expenditures agreed under the project.
22.   The level of indebtedness of the Road Fund was very high during the same period. At
negotiations, it was anticipated that debt service would peak at a maximum of 1.7 BHUF in 1995
expressed in 1992 prices (3.4 BHUF in 1996 prices). Debt service, in fact, increased to 14.5
BHUF in 1996. This represented 28 percent of the expenditures under the Road Fund, which
declined to 18 percent of the expenditures under the Road Fund by 1999. This borrowing was
motivated by the Government's desire to expand its main road network, and reduced the funds
available for maintenance. At the same time, overall Government expenditures declined from
58.3 percent of GDP in 1993 to 47.2 percent in 1996. This was part of an unprecedented 23
percent reduction in the Government's central budget in only four years, a reduction that was not
anticipated at appraisal and that affected resource availability for all activities including road
maintenance.
23.   Since the Road Fund was abolished in early 1999, the decision process and financial
mechanisms could be described as follows. New investments on motorways and expressways
are made in accordance with a ten-year plan that is described in Government Resolution No.
2117/1999 (26 May 1999). According to this Resolution, a National Motorway Co. Ltd. (NMC)
will have to take over the existing public motorway companies and thereafter will be responsible
for the construction, operation (including a unified toll collection5) and maintenance of all public
expressways and motorways in the country.  Rehabilitation and widening of existing
expressways is part of the ten-year plan.
24.   Maintenance of the existing network will be financed by a combination of state budget
funds and development loans. MTCWM still gives high priority to the rehabilitation of the non-
high speed road and bridge national network in order to get ready for the EU Accession and to be
able to harmonize with the Community legislation by meeting the EU axle load standards. The
program for rehabilitation of the non-high speed network will benefit from the implementation of
the Road Project, as it will use the Pavement Monitoring System, which was substantially
improved under the Project. The prioritization of maintenance is now systemized through the
identification of a short-list of principal routes to be rehabilitated, given (i) the importance of
their function, (ii) the traffic they supported, (iii) the need to improve the load bearing capacity,
(iv) the condition of the pavement, and (v) the width of the road. The short list is ranked using
the ERRs calculated using the HDM computer model. Annual maintenance and rehabilitation
programs are reviewed at the beginning of each year, based on the above prioritization scheme.
(ii) The slippage of the safety component
5 A unified toll collection system for State owned motorways will be introduced gradually by January 2002. According to the
Govemment Resolution No 2252/1998 of November 25, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, Communications
and Water Management to negotiate with EKMA (the public concessionaire for M3 motorway) and to propose by July 30,
1999, further changes in favor of a unified toll collection system



9
25    The Ministry of Interior appeared to be well organized to procure safety equipment under
the Project, but was unable to procure more than half of the US$4.5 million of the Loan funds
that were allocated for this purpose, including fire brigade equipment and motorbikes for the
police. Consequently, the Borrower asked for a reallocation of the proceeds of the Loan in June
1998, and US$2.5 million was reallocated to Category 3 of the Project (works toward the
reduction of accident black spots). The Ministry has, however, made very efficient use of the
equipment that it did procure. An additional one year extension of the Closing Date was granted
to UKIG to implement this late contribution to the road safety program.
D.   Project Sustainability
26.   The sustainability of improved efficiency of expenditures on the road network seems
likely as the Government observes the usefulness of the new procedures. The Institutional
Development Program (IDP) has improved the management and planning techniques within the
MTCWM. The staff is now familiar with operating a road and bridge database and a traffic
safety database, and is likely to continue to use these systems. Also, the staff responsible for
maintenance operations procured new equipment through the Project, which will continue to be
used. New standards for road surface treatments have been incorporated into MTCWM's
operations and will most certainly be sustained. The organizational restructuring is in place, and
the capacity of the KHTs to carry out routine maintenance has been enhanced substantially by
the supply of road maintenance equipment under the Project, which will be sustained so long as
the equipment lasts.
27.   The improvements in road safety practices are the result of new laws and regulations that
are in place, and the police staff is now equipped and trained for better enforcement. The road
users are now accustomed to such practices as a 50 km per hour speed limit in urban areas and
the use of safety belts.
28.   The situation regarding the financing of road maintenance is more uncertain in view of
the termination of the Road Fund. The Project fostered discussions about trading maintenance
expenditures off against investments in Hungary, which was useful but not decisive in
establishing the importance of maintenance. The Bank and MTCWM monitored the national
financing plan and national road expenditures from 1992 to 1999, which has proven to be very
useful in assessing the extent of the backlog in maintenance and the minimum level of
maintenance required. Whether the regular budgetary system now in use will result in a level of
financing adequate to maintain the primary and secondary road network is uncertain.
E.   Bank Performance
29.   The Bank's performance in all aspects of the Project cycle was satisfactory. There were
no deviations in Bank policies or procedures in project implementation. Project supervision was
adequate. The Bank team included participation by several specialists in road maintenance
management, Road Fund management and training programs. The Bank was successful in
facilitating institutional development regarding the management of road maintenance. However,
the Project could have benefited from closer coordination with the EU-PHARE program and
utilization of additional Trust Funds for technical assistance.



10
F.    Borrower Performance
30.   The overall performance of the Borrower and the concerned Government agencies was
satisfactory in all phases of the project cycle except for the provision of financing for road
maintenance and the shortfall in procurement by the Ministry of Interior. The Government
complied with all covenants under the Loan except for para. 4.02a, which refers to the
availability of funds for core maintenance activities. The lack of sufficient financing for these
activities impeded the pace of the Project in 1996, but the Borrower was prompt to address this
issue (see paragraphs 18 to 21). All components under UKIG's responsibility are expected to be
fully disbursed, although one year later than estimated at appraisal. The Ministry of Interior was
slow in completing the procurement of the road safety equipment as was planned, but the
remaining funds were reallocated to the reduction of accident black spots under UKIG
management and relevant works were completed by June 1999. Despite the fact that not all of
the safety equipment was supplied by the Closing Date, the Ministry of Interior organized a very
successful advertising campaign regarding road safety and drastically improved the enforcement
of road safety regulations. This resulted in a significant improvement of road safety results
during the Project implementation period.
31.   The cooperation and exchange of information between the Bank and the Borrower was
excellent at all times. Issues, when they rose, were discussed and addressed through frequent
dialogue and supervision missions that the Bank organized on a biannual basis during the
implementation phase.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
32.   Both physical and capacity building outcomes are rated as satisfactory. The efficiency of
public expenditure on roads has been increased through continuous improvements in
management, planning and programming techniques and by increasing the proportion of works
carried out by competitive contracting mechanisms.  The road organization has been
restructured, with the district organizations converted to separate entities that secure their work
through competitive bidding. Pavement conditions have been improved for both the primary and
secondary networks, thus allowing the users to travel at lower cost and with less limitations.
Still, annual maintenance fumds are not sufficient to prevent a gradual deterioration of the road
conditions in the future, particularly of the secondary network, unless annual budgets are
increased substantially.
33.   Economic rates of return (ERRs) were calculated at appraisal for the road and bridge
rehabilitation components, which account for 80 percent of total project cost. Weighted ERRs
were 18 percent for roads and 28 percent for bridges. Actual average ERRs were 36 percent for
the road rehabilitation components and 29 percent for the bridge components. The difference
between estimated and actual ERRs for the road component is due primarily to the
underestimation of traffic volumes on the sections of roads to be repaired (only 20 percent of the
site locations were identified at the time of appraisal).
34.   Discussions regarding the importance of maintenance versus new construction made a
useful contribution to Hungarian understanding of this issue, even though the Road Fund was
abolished in 1999. The structure of road user charges was improved, including the decision that



11
the part of the fuel tax that contributes to road financing will be collected on an ad valorem basis.
Also road users, Chamber of Commerce and user associations were given the opportunity to
discuss maintenance plans with Government executives.
H.   Future Operations
35.   At present, there are no specific plans for a follow-on project, although one has been
under discussion for some time. Today's priorities lie in consolidating the results achieved so
far, while allowing Hungary to reach EU accession requirements in the transport sector. In this
context, a follow-up operation could address some or all of the following issues:
* Institutional development of the road sector: The possibility of reorganizing the road sector
and merging all public motorway companies into one joint stock company should be
explored. Also, the separation of the roles of UKIG and the Technical and Information
Services on National Roads (AKMI) should be promoted (AKMI is now exclusively
responsible for maintenance, while UKIG is now only responsible for investments on the
road network outside of the high speed roads). Many positive changes that have been
undertaken in the Hungarian road sector in the last five years should be consolidated, and
there is room for greater decentralization and competition. MTCWM should be encouraged
to focus on cross-sector coordination, creation of financing mechanisms, and policy and
regulatory developments.
E Ensuring minimalfinancing of maintenance expenditures: The separation of the financing of
road maintenance and rehabilitation from new construction should be encouraged. The
termination of the Road Fund and the financing of road maintenance activities through
annual budget negotiations could increase volatility of planning maintenance activities and
limit opportunities for social and users' influence over road maintenance.
.  Rehabilitation of existing motorways: This could include M7 between Budapest and
Zamardi, at an estimated cost of US$148 million (the economic feasibility study indicates
that the ERR of this project is 17 percent). The rehabilitation of existing expressways could
be financed by a combination of state budget funds, development loans, and toll income.
* Rehabilitation of the non-high speed road and bridge national network: MTCWM has
carried out a technical-economic study regarding the rehabilitation needs to match the 11.5
axle load standard under various budget constraints. A desirable program would include
major roads with substantial traffic that do not constitute alternative routes to the
expressways. This program could also include some intersection improvements, widening
and minor alignment improvements.
* Inter-city public transport: Some measures should be taken to accompany the new passenger
transport law that is currently being prepared. Those measures could address: (i) the Public
Service Obligation (PSO) of providing passenger transport services to every citizen and
village; (ii) the low demand for such service, making it very costly to the Government; (iii)
the prevalence of old buses (of the 20,000 buses in Hungary probably no more than 1000
meet the EU standard); and (iv) the employment of the private sector in the provision of the
PSOs and public transport service in general.



12
* Road Safety Improvements: Follow-up activities of the road safety component could be
targeted at (i) the supply of safety equipment and training for the police; (ii) black spot
improvements; and (iii) an improved accident data monitoring system.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
36.   Two lessons emerged from the Project, which are related below. Because the status of
the Hungary road network is representative of the situation of most of the eastern European
countries, it is expected that these lessons are transferable to other situations.
(a)   There is a tendency for the Government to use the road budgets to expand the
road network, whereas there are few incentives for allocating adequate resources
for maintenance although ERRs for maintenance operations are usually quite
high. Maintenance activities need to be given higher priority by the Government
if the road networks are to be sustained and overall transport costs reduced. This
could be done by greater efforts to educate the road users, the public at large and
the Government's financial managers on the need for an appropriate level of road
maintenance financing and the consequent savings that would accrue to their
benefit.
(b)   It is possible to achieve a significant reduction in road accidents through a
coordinated road safety program.



13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial         Nelible
Macro Policies                       a               U                a
Sector Policies                      :i              7               [ 
Financial Objectives                 00
Institutional Development            3               0                0                 0
Physical Objectives                                  ]               E                 El
Poverty Reduction                                   El                 l               lx
Gender Issues                                                        E]                lxa
Other Social Objectives               l              ]                a                 x
Environmental Objectives             0               3                0                 0
Public Sector Management                                             E 00
Private Sector Development          E              [xj               E                 [
Other (specify)Road Safety         Ix                 ]              E 
(Continued)



15
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                       (/)                      (9')
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                     (/)                        (/)
Identification                    [El
Preparation Assistance             [x                       I 
Appraisal                                                                             E l 
Supervision                        E                                                  I]
Higl
D. Borrower Performance             satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                        (x                       I                          a
Implementation                        l                     Ix 
Covenant Compliance                El                       E 
Operation (if applicable)          El                       E 
HiW1!y                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(9')            (e'             (9')              (9')
E                                ElE



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose                    Year of             Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. First Transport  Provide assistance to MAV (railway   1985     Closed in 1991
(Rail / Road) Project  company), the road infrastructure
(first section of the MO South West
Budapest), and Hungarocamioon
(parastatal trucking company).
2. Second Transport  Follow-up assistance in the same  1989       1995
Project             sectors than under the first project,
plus assistance to the Budapest BKV
(public transport company)
Following operations
1. Budapest Urban    The overall objective of the   1995          2000
Transport Project   Budapest Urban Transport Project is
to support the urban transport
reforms undertaken by the City of
Budapest and Budapest Transport
Company (BKV).



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  April 1991      April 1991
Preparation                               December 1991    December 1991
Appraisal                                 April 1992        April 1992
Negotiations                              November 1992    November 1992
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if   n-a               n-a
applicable)
Board Presentation                        December 1992    December 3, 1992
Signing                                   February, 1993    March26, 1993
Effectiveness                             April 1993        May 12, 1993
First Tranche Release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if
applicable)
Project Completion                        December 1996    February 1999
Loan Closing                              June 1997         June 1999
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY 93  FY 94  FY 95  FY 96  FY 97   FY 98   FY 99
Appraisal estimate      8       25      50      75      90               -
Actual                  3       15      35      58      72      85       88
Actual as % of estimate    37   60      70      77      80      -        -
Date of final                                                            10/15/
disbursement "                                                           99
1  A small balance is being cancelled.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                  Actual
I Key implementation indicators in SAR
1. Core maintenance         1992   4.37               1992   5.28
expenditures              1993   4.90              1993   7.30
(1992 HUF billion)        1994   7.11              1994   10.10
1995   7.37              1995   6.33
1996   7.46              1996   5.02
1997   n-a               1997   6.10
2. Decrease the number of                             1991   24, 500 (1,875 fatal)
road accidents                                        1992   24, 600 (1,850 fatal)
1993   19,500 (1,460 fatal)
1994   20,700 (1,390 fatal)
1995   19,800 (1,400 fatal)
1996   18,400 (1,250 fatal)
1997   18,000 (1,250 fatal)
1998   20,150 (1,240 fatal)
II Modified indicators (if applicable)
III Other indicators (if applicable)



19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Esfimated                   Actual
I Key operating indicators in SAR
1.                     Not applicable
2.
3.
1. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1.
2.
3.
III. Modified indicatorsforfuture operation (if applicable)
1.
2.
3.



20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                     Purpose as defined   Status    Impact of study
at
appraisal/redefmed
1. Development of Road Enhancing the        Compl.   An operable road and
and Bridge Management efficiency of public           bridge management system
Systems:                 expenditures                 has been developed on the
basis of the Finnish HIPS
and the PONTIS system
used in the United States.
2. Establishing an       Enhancing the      Compl.   A group of experts prepared
environmentalprotection    efficiency ofpublic        a global environmental
system for the national  expenditures                 action plan under the
roads                                                 auspices of MTCWM. The
group issued estimates of
financial implications of the
plan in the short, medium
and long term.
3. Traffic control and traffic  Enhancing road  Compl.  black spots were identified;
safety:                  safety                       data collection on accidents
was put in place
4. Technical Assistance for  Enhancing the  Compl.   A geographic information
Maintenance of the Local   efficiency ofpublic       system for local road
Roads Network:           expenditures                registration was put in
place, and road officials of
the local governments were
trained.
5. Public involvement in the  Enhancing the  Compl.   A committee reviewed the
decision making processes   efficiency ofpublic       existing regulatory
expenditures                framework regarding the
rights of the Public in
participating in the decision
making process regarding
the construction of new
infrastructures.



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate       Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)             (US$ million)
Item                         Local Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign  Total
costs  costs               costs   costs
1. Road rehabilitation      54.0   54.0   108.0        57.3   57.3   114.6
2. Bridge rehabilitation     8.4   12.0    20.4          7.0   10.6    17.6
3. Maintenance equipment     3.0   12.0    15.0          2.8   11.3    14.1
4. Safety program
-works                    3.0    3.0      6.0         5.3    5.3    10.6
-equipment                1.4    5.4      6.8         0.7    3.0      3.7
-training & TA            0.1    0.5      0.6         0.1    0.3      0.4
5. IDTA(i)                   0.6    2.3      2.9         0.4    1.8      2.2
6. Local roads IDTA (i)      0.2    1.2       1.4        0.2    0.8      1.0
Total                       70.7   90.4   161.1         73.8   90.4   164.2
(i) Institutional Development Technical Assistance
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate       Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
Item                          Local  Foreign   Total     Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs              costs   costs
IBRD                        0.0     90.0   90.0         0.0     90.0   90.0
Grant Financing                     0.4    0.4                  0.4    0.4
Domestic Contributions      70.7    0.0    70.7         70.7    0.0    70.7
Total                       70.7    90.4   161.1        70.7    90.4   161.1
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Type of Expenditures    Cost in US$        Estimated ERR         Actual ERR
Road Rehabilitation     90 million              18                  36
Bridge Rehabilitation    17 million             28                   29
Overall Average                               19.5                30.7



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original    Revised          Description of Covenant           Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Loan        4.02 (a)  11        CP..   June 94                   Making funds available for       Not compliant in 1995 and
maintenance activities, according   1996
to schedule agreed at negotiations
Loan        4.02 (b)  9         C.       June 94                 Copy to the Bank of financial
expenditures and financial plan
Loan        4.02 (c)  11        C.       June 94                 ERR above 12% necessary for a
rehabilitation to be financed out of
the proceed of the Loan
Loan        4.02 (d)  02        CP.    August 98                 Review the road users charges and  Did not comply in 93 and
ensure that receipts from each  94. Complied partially in
vehicle class reflect the road cost   95, 96 and 97. Comply
attributable to that vehicle class.   since August 98
Loan        4.03      12        C.       June 94                 Enhance competitive bidding for   The Borrower went far
rehabilitation of roads and bridges  beyond the requirement
Loan        4.04      12        CP.    August 98                 Issuing of a long term plan      Did not comply in 94.
regarding road maintenance      Complied partially in 95 -
97.
Loan        Sched 1  12         C.       June 94                 Issuing of a road safety program
Sect 3 b
Covenant types:                                                                           Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                             8. = Indigenous people                   C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered  CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project finds           by categories 1-9                    NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                          11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  other resource allocation
agency                                         12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                        regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                     13. = Other



23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title     Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. O.P.4.01 and 4.02           The borrower complied with the requirements of the O.D.'s.
Environmental Assessment and   Environmental regulations in Hungary are more stnngent
Action Plan                    than prevailing best practice. These were not only strictly
adhered to, but were further strengthened during
implementation (e.g. through the introduction of new
specifications regarding asphalt plants and construction
wastes).
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                Revised                   Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    US$      Weeks       US$           Weeks    US$000
Preparation to Appraisal   No mention         n-a        n-a            29.6      79.6
Appraisal             No mention              n-a        n-a            14.2      37.8
Negotiations through Board No mention         n-a        n-a            11.6      34.5
approval
Supervision           No mention              n-a        n-a           98.1      231.1
Completion            No mention              n-a        n-a            10.6      20.9
Total                                  n-a        n-a           164.1     403.9



24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratm        Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month!    No. of  Days Specialization'   Implem.    Developm. Problems3
Year    Persons   in                      Status      objectives
Field
Through Appraisal           10/90        3      12  TE, RR, U          Not          n.a.         n.a.
2/92       2       7   TE, U           applicable
Appraisal through Board      4/92        2      5   TE, TE             n.a.         n.a.         n.a.
approval
Supervision                  5/93       2       7   TE, F                I            I
2/94        5      7   TE, F                I            I
10/94       2       6   TE, HE              S            S
7/95       2       6   TE, HE              S            U            CP
10/95       2       7   TE, HE              S           U            CP
6/96       2       6   TE, TE              U            U            CP
5/97       2       6   TE, TE              S            S
11/97       2       6   TE, TE              S            S
6/98       2       6   TE, TE              S            S
3/99        1      5   TE                  S            S
Completion                  None
Total                        13                                  S            S
missions
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:    3 - Key to Types of Problems:
TE-Transport Engineer                HS-Highly Satisfactory        CP-Lack of counterpart funding
HE-Highway Engineer                  S-Satisfactory
RR-Railway Engineer                  U-Unsatisfactory
U-Urban Specialist                   HU-Highly Unsatisfactory
F-Financial Analyst                  NA-Not Applicable
TE-Transport Economist               NR-Not Rated



APPENDIX A
Page I of 9
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 3549-HIU)
Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
(Parts A and B of the Project, Categories 1 and 2)
and
Reconstruction of Dangerous Road Sections
(Part DI of the Project, Category 3)
1.   Implementation of Project Objectives
The objectives of the Project are to increase the efficiency of public spending on roads, to
raise the funds available for road and bridge rehabilitation and to increase road safety.
The Loan HU-3549 provided by the Bank brought about significant results for the
Beneficiary. Maintenance demands of the Hungarian road network remarkably exceed the
possibilities allowed by the resources (even if supplemented by the Bank Loan).
However, in part attributed to the Loan, the pace of depreciation of the national wealth
constituted by the road network could slow down.
2.    Progress of Project Implementation
The rehabilitation works (road and bridge) were completed according to the yearly
schedules, including the use of the balance of MoI-part of the Loan.
3.    Main Aspects of Project Implementation
a/    Design of the Project
The outlines, composition and elaboration of the Project, as revised during
implementation, were well designed.



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 9
The use of the Bank procurement guidelines for contracting out the Works (bidding) has
brought about good results at many areas, such as:
-   improvement of the bidding practice (quality of the Bidding Documents,
transparent evaluation aspects, etc.);
-   increased competition (unified reference system, new ventures entering the
market);
-   acceleration of the privatization process (as a result of bidding, being a
compulsory process contracting out surface treatment, pavement strengthening,
etc. works); and
-   an improved maintenance strategy.
The results (the content of the Bidding Documents, contractors' participation in the bids,
progress of maintenance works put to bid, etc.) were regularly reported to the Bank.
The programn results of upgrading the equipment fleet of operating and maintaining the
national road network are also to be underlined.
hb    Institutes and governmental bodies
The institutes (MTCWM, UKIG and NBH) taking part in the implementation have been
sincerely committed to the Project, which is well proven by the quality of their co-
operation.
C/    Financing schedule
The financing schedule was well prepared, however, the local funds were not sufficient to
complete the Project by the original deadline.
dV     The original objectives
The validity of the original objectives was not affected by the various adjustments made
in the course of implementation. The original objectives are still prevailing.
e/    Supervision of Project implementation by the Bank
The Bank's performance in supervising Project implementation was undoubtedly
excellent. The issues and problems raised in the consultations were solved without
exception.
fl     Rules of the Bank
No problems were faced in complying with the Bank rules.



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 9
4.   Problem Areas
The Bank temporarily suspended the disbursement of the Loan proceeds in 1996. Such
suspension was not attributed to the shortcomings in implementation but rather to the
insufficiency of Road Fund financing.
5.   Recommendations
While understanding the Bank requirement for establishing the IRR values, we
recommend to lower the 20% limit to 10-12%. Our experience was that under a traffic
volume 2000 PCU/day very few road sections could be incorporated in the rehabilitation
program, though their condition would have justified it.
The reduction of the maintenance backlog would be further supported by raising the
Bank part to 60%.
6.   Future operation
The operability of the national public road network can be maintained and the negative
trends can be stopped through following consequently the priorities in the sector.
The tasks pertaining to the priorities are the following:
-  In the field of operation:
-   The provision of services at level "A" as set by the Resolution NO 6/1998 (III.
1.) by MTCWM should be ensured by the time of joining the EU.
-  In the field of maintenance:
-   Within a ten-year time span, regular maintenance of pavements in 15-year
periods should be achieved and funds amounting to 1.5% of the total bridge
value should be accumulated for bridge rehabilitation.
-  In the field of smaller upgrading projects:
-   Continuation of the program of reconstructing dangerous intersections,
-   Liquidation of the "dead end" nature of several villages,
-   Rehabilitation of secondary roads,
-   Construction of by-passes.
-  Pavement strengthening program:
More than one third of the 30,000 km long national public road network requires
urgent strengthening. The improvement of load bearing capacity is much more
expensive than that of any other condition characteristics.
The extremely severe winter in 1998/1999 and the resulted floods and high ground
water levels caused very serious deterioration of pavements calling for additional
strengthening over and above the scheduled program designed to achieve 11.5-ton
load bearing capacity; this is underlined by that EU-resources are only available for a
certain part of the network (roads included in TINA-program).



APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 9
PROCUREMENT OF ROAD MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
(PART C OF THE PROJECT, CATEGORY 4)
1.   Implementation of Project Objectives
The objectives of the Project were entirely met in this Category.
2.    Progress of Project Implementation
Progress of Project implementation was on schedule according to the original program.
The contracts concluded for the various parts of the Component were paid by NBH from
the Special Account, so the schedule of disbursements had no impact on implementation.
3.    Main Aspects of Project Implementation
a!    Design of the Project
Implementation of the Component was well supported by adequate preparation.
b/     Institutes and governmental bodies
Since the Component was designed to support a specific activity within the beneficiary
sector and implementation was undertaken by the administrative body of road
maintenance, the implementing institute's commitment to the objectives did not change
over the implementation.
CY     Financing schedule
100% of the "CIP Hungarian customs area" costs or "ex-works" costs of the procurements
under the Component were financed by the Bank, while the auxiliary costs (which
decreased over the Project period) were financed from the Road Fund. The financing
schedule proved to be fully justified.
dl     The original objectives
The institutional re-structuring of the sector did not require the revision of the original
objectives. The system of channeling budgetary payments through the Treasury is based
on priority budget lines. The auxiliary costs of procurements were included in the
relevant budget line; hence the institutional revisions did not hinder meeting the
objectives.



APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 9
e/     Supervision of Project implementation by the Bank
Smooth progress of the Component was promoted by the mutual understanding and co-
operation reached with the Bank missions (e.g. the practice followed in the last contracts
i.e. approving in one step the Bidding Documents, the Evaluation Report and the award
of the contract, saved weeks in implementation).
fl     Rules of the Bank
No problems were faced in complying with the Bank rules.
4.   Problem Areas
No significant problem occurred in the course of implementation.
5.   Recommendations
It is deemed to be useful to reduce the number of necessary Bank approvals in the case
proper contractors have been found and the contracts are of similar value.
6.   Future operation
Further machinery should be acquired for maintenance through
-  procurement of ditch and shoulder maintenance equipment,
-  procurement of devices for the maintenance of green belts,
-  procurement of vehicles and equipment for winter maintenance.



APPENDIX A
Page 6 of 9
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(PART E OF THE PROJECT, CATEGORY 6)
1.    Implementation of Project Objectives
The objectives of the Project were entirely met.
2.    Progress of Project Implementation
Progress of Project implementation was on schedule according to the original program,
however, disbursements were behind it. Nevertheless, disbursements were completed by
the deadline.
3.    Main Aspects of Project Implementation
a/    Design of the Project
The program of the Component was well designed by setting out the objectives and
establishing the tasks, institutional frameworks, actions to be financed and the issues to
be covered in the progress reports.
b/     Institutes and governmental bodies
Implementation was monitored by MTCWM Road Department and the management of
DRMC (UKIG).
c/     Financing schedule
The financing schedule, including the Hungarian part, was adequate.
dl     The original objectives
The program was implemented substantially along the original objectives, except for the
subject regarding the Road Fund.
el     Supervision of Project implementation by the Bank
The Bank staff, during their missions, provided all the necessary assistance to make the
Component a success.



APPENDIX A
Page 7 of 9
fl     Rules of the Bank
No problems were faced in complying with the Bank rules. All parts of the Component
were implemented in line with the Bank's approvals.
4.   Problem Areas
As a result of re-organizations within the Bank, several Bank officials were involved in
the Component. It would have been easier if there had been one official to keep track of
the progress from the very beginning. Though it has to be mentioned that the Hungarian
counterparts had very good working relations with each of the involved Bank staff.
5.   Recommendations
It is deemed to be useful to reduce the number of necessary Bank approvals as far as the
study tours are concerned.
6.   Future operation
Action 1: Development of Road and Bridge Management System
The Pavement management system has been operational for two years. The output data and the
resulted reports serve road policy making, strategic planning of maintenance actions, resource
allocation and maintenance project preparation purposes and is suitable means of defining the
optimum ratio of maintenance versus development.
The deterioration matrices need revision in the near future to reflect 11.5-ton allowed axle load
with a view to the European standards.
Action 2: Training of Operating Center Personnel
(i)   As a follow up, the operational experiences of the new training system should be
compared to the foreign ones through regular involvement of foreign experts (e.g. in the
field of new technologies).
(ii)   Making use of foreign expertise, application for central moneys to fund the operation of
the Regional Center of Technology Transfer for which the foundation has been laid under
the Action.
(iii) The system of road related training should be further improved together with the
condition of operation of the Training Board and the regional Training Centers.
(iv)  On the basis of the considerations of the changing financing policies a new maintenance
strategy should be developed also observing the findings under the Action. As an element
of this activity, measures aiming at the efficiency improvement of road management and



APPENDIX A
Page 8 of 9
operation centers and an EU-compatible operation at regional level which at the same
time provides for the control of the central road administration, should be re-considered.
Action 3: Updating of Key Road Standards
In the forthcoming years the regulations will be further refined in accordance with the schedule
approved by the Road Department of MTCWM as allowed by the funds available for this
purpose.
Action 4: Increasing the Lifetime of Surface Treatments
As an outcome of the studies completed under the Action the following technological
recommendations should be observed in the future operations:
(i)   A one-month interval is recommended between laying two layers of pavement to achieve
optimal embedding and minimum peeling.
(ii)   After cross section improvements surface treatments should be undertaken within one to
three years, which results in a lifetime of the structure of 10-15 years.
(iii)  Preparatory works are recommended in the year preceding surface treatments. Only the
new defects should be repaired in the reference year. The preparatory and surface
treatment works should be separated in time.
(iv)  This is a foreign practice to apply 0/30 dolomite crushed aggregates and two-layer
treatments on secondary roads. This may be useful to adopt it also in Hungary.
(v)   The ruts at the range of 8-20 mm are generally repaired with a self-spreading course
mixed at the site. For the following layer spread or plant-mixed material can be applied.
(vi)  Single-layer double crushed or two-layer spread treatments can be applied on trunk roads.
(This is less hazardous in the course of mixing and right afterwards.)
(vii)  The modified bituminous binders are becoming widespread to be used abroad. In the case
of mixed technologies only modified binders are recommended.
The foreign practice is to make treatments of certain types on 10-15% of the road network. As a
result, the lifetime of the surface treatment and the pavement structure is increased by that the
treatments are made to a structure of sufficient load bearing capacity and leaking of water into
the pavement structure can be avoided. In comparison, around 3% of the national network
receives any treatment in Hungary, which is obviously insufficient.
Action 5: Establishing an Environmental Protection Systems for the National Public Roads
On the basis of the studies made under the Action, the system can be established subject to the
decision by MTCWM and the availability of funds for this purpose.



APPENDIX A
Page 9 of 9
Action 6: Traffic Control and Traffic Safety
Follow-up actions are recommended in line with the following:
(i)   assisting the national program of road transport safety,
(ii)  establishment of technical background to connect to the European systems of road data
banks,
(iii)  studies to find the way of adopting the telematics systems in Hungary,
(iv)  assisting development actions with a view to accession to the European Union,
(v)   co-ordination of transport safety measures and technical development within the Central-
Eastern European region,
(vi)  assisting the special municipal tasks and those of the transport police.
Action 7: Development of Road Fund Type Financing
The Action is no longer topical.
Action 8: Public Involvement in the Decision Making Processes
The legal and technical background for introducing public involvement can be established
provided a top-level decision to this end has been made.
Action 9: Technical Assistance for Local Roads
As a follow-up, the elaborated system should be extended over all the settlements and the
105,000 km long local road network with provision for the legal background and the financial
resources. Following the establishment of regional centers, the involved staff should be given
regular training through guidance, manuals, demonstration of new systems and assisting in
introducing them as well as through the exchange of information and expertise.
Continuation of the Action in the direction of practical issues could accelerate the process.
Country-wide introduction along the recommendations of the Action could be achieved within a
few years provided the necessary funds are available. This would be a very significant result; the
problems deriving from sub-standard management could be eliminated and the use of limited
local resources could be much more efficient.






H U N G A R Y
ROADS PROJECT                                                                         CZECHOSLOVAKIA                                     UKRAINE
N                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Konice
y)  URBAN AREAS                              ROADS PROPOSED FOR REHABILITATION                                                                       Tlo Uzgorord
* SELECTED TOWNS                              MAIN NATIONAL ROADS
)  COUNTY CAPITALS                           SELECTED SECONDARY ROADS                            To Kosi
0 NATIONAL CAPITAL                             MOTORWAYS
COUNTY BOUNDARIES            _          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
>b ToCrotislovo                         jgJ-   ~~~~~~~~ ~                                  ~ ~~MISKOLC     f 
AUSTRIA }/                                      %TBNADPS                                                                                  v  ERCN|TStMr
To Grac~~~~~T
j   2t}  ,- ' *  i                        Siofo       DfoI             KECSKME         a,  R,,          ;,          ,jOMANA
FZALAEGERSZEG '          ..- .rnoEnyG ER
X t >- - .. ,r ,,*} BB.Bztcvorov ..... 3 /     
N o    , ,_,,_,  f<, ,>,>    D,oX,              6 &   ''2 )uD 1                      "                  ''Da              TonArad T No-
JaZaareb   V       t~~ KAPOSVAR                      ,       tr?                 SEE   3tKILOMETERS
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ar
\ i ., . . . (3 Bata~~Sre95 .o                                                                         Iua,a        exclssively for the cseveniesce
BerettY66ifaitesalse tTh WrluBn
:> >_ , \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and the bosndaries showse_
r                   _    t       ToOsijek        fUr/3R>LAV5SA                      M                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any jud ment on the legal   C)
o    _   _                                            .                   ensdorsemenst or acceptance of  o
1.5                                                                                                                                                        00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZLO



