Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3996 PH
                             Loan Agreement
                   (Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project
                             Currency Pool Loan)
                                 between
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                          NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
                            Dated May 15, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3996 PH
                         CURRENCY POOL LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank") and NATIONAL POWER
CORPORATION (the "Borrower").
      WHEREAS Republic of the Philippines (the "Guarantor") and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS by an agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement") of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan to be
provided to the Borrower by the Bank pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement (the "Loan") and to undertake such other obligations as set
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
      WHEREAS: (A) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank (the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan Agreement),
the Bank has agreed to provide a loan equal to one hundred fifty million
dollars ($150,000,000)  (the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan) to assist
in the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan Agreement;
      (B)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor
and the Bank (the Floating Rate Single Currency Guarantee Agreement), the
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan and to undertake such
Page  2
other obligations as set forth in the Floating Rate Single Currency
Guarantee Agreement;
      (C)   the Borrower has obtained  from the Asian Development Bank
(the "ADB") a loan (the "ADB Loan") in an amount equivalent to two
hundred and forty four million dollars ($244,000,000) to assist in
financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the "ADB Loan Agreement") dated November 27, 1995, entered
into between ADB and the Borrower;
      (D)   the Borrower has obtained from the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (the "KfW") a  loan (the "KfW Loan") in an amount equivalent
to fifty million ninety eight thousand Deutsche mark (DM 50,098,000) to
assist in financing Part A of the Project, on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the "KfW Loan Agreement") dated December 14, 1995,
entered into between  KfW and the Borrower; and
      (E)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Export-Import Bank
of Japan (the "JEXIM") a loan (the "JEXIM Loan") in an amount equivalent
to two hundred and forty four million dollars ($244,000,000), to assist
in financing Part A of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the "JEXIM Loan Agreement") to be entered into between
the JEXIM and the Borrower;
      WHEREAS The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the "General Conditions"), constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
            no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
            in the territories of any country which is not a member of
            the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
            such territories; or (b) for the purposes of any payment to
            persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
            payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited
            by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
            under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
            any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
            with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
            Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
       (a)  "Charter" means the Borrower's constituent instrument (R.A.
No. 6395), dated September 10, 1971, as amended to the date of this
Agreement, published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette, dated
February 7, 1972, establishing the Borrower as a state-owned power
generation company duly authorized and operating under the Guarantor's
laws and regulations;
Page  3
      (b)   "Energy Plan" means the Guarantor's plan for reforming its
power sector and promoting energy sufficiency, both at the national and
local levels, to be implemented by the Guarantor and its electricity
power generation and transmission utilities and related power entities,
as set forth in the "Philippines Energy Plan 1994-2010," issued by the
Guarantor's Department of Energy in 1994, as such plan may be revised from
time to time;
      (c)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding
to any of the Borrower's or Guarantor's financial years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31, in each calendar year, and
the term "Fiscal Years" means, collectively, each of said Fiscal Year;
      (d)   "FIRSC Loan Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02(a) of the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan Agreement;
      (e)   "RAP-I" means the Resettlement Action Plan, dated December,
1995, approved by the Borrower pursuant to Resolutions Nos. 95-199 and
95-255 of its Board of  Directors,  dated September 11, 1995 and November
8, 1995, respectively, for carrying out the compensation, resettlement
and rehabilitation of all persons who are involuntarily resettled or whose
rights to land and other assets are compulsorily acquired under Part A of
the Project; the term "RAP-2" means the detailed resettlement action plan
referred to in paragraph B.2 (i)  of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such
plan may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and
the Borrower; and "RAPs" means RAP-1 and RAP-2 collectively; and
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and "FIRSC Special Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of the  Floating Rate Single Currency
Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                              The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
one hundred  million dollars ($100,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of
the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
specifically authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
Page  4
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                   reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                   percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
                   of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                   such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                   allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
                   provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this
Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
            of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
            rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
            plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
            shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
            during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
            the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
            on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
            year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall: (a) carry out the Project (i) with due diligence
and efficiency, (ii) in a manner consistent with the Energy Plan, (iii)
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices, and (iv) in accordance with appropriate
safety, health and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Page  5
this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date, or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
      (b)     afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
               Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not, without the Bank's prior
consent, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which are required for the efficient conduct of its
operations or the carrying out of the Project.
      Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall promptly take all measures
necessary to acquire, maintain, renew and otherwise exercise all rights,
power, privileges and franchises required for the proper conduct of its
operations and carrying out of its obligations under this Agreement.
      Section 4.06.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)    prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and the Bank not later
than October 1 in each Fiscal Year a proposed power development program,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request, to
be carried out by the Borrower during the next five (5) following Fiscal
Years;
     (b)    exchange views with the Guarantor and the Bank on the program
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
     (c)    promptly thereafter, take all measures required on its part
to carry out, during the next following Fiscal Year, such program for
said year as shall have been agreed upon among the Guarantor, the Bank
and the Borrower.
                             ARTICLE V
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and separate
Page  6
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) and the records and accounts for
                  the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six (6) months after the end of each such
                  year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements
                  for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records, accounts and financial statements as well
                  as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal
                  Year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain power
tariff structures or levels sufficient for it to earn: (i) an annual
return of not less than seven percent (7%) of the average current net
value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation in its Fiscal Year
1996 and eight percent (8%) in each Fiscal Year thereafter; and (ii)
revenues sufficient to cover its estimated debt service requirements
during each such Fiscal Year.
      (b)  Before December 1 in each of its Fiscal Years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements
set forth in sub-paragraphs (a)(i) and (ii) of this Section in respect of
such year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the
Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
      (c)  If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in said sub-paragraphs (a)(i) or (ii) for its
Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take
all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
Page  7
   (d)    For the purposes of this Section:
          (i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing the
              Borrower's net operating income for the Fiscal Year in
              question by one half (1/2) of the sum of the current net
              value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the
              beginning and at the end of that Fiscal Year.
          (ii) The term  "net operating income" means total operating
               revenues less total operating expenses.
         (iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all
               sources related to operations.
          (iv) The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses
               related to operations, including administration, adequate
               maintenance, taxes, and provision for depreciation in a
               manner consistent with generally accepted accounting
               principles.
          (v) The term "current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets
              in operation" means the total gross value of the Borrower's
              fixed assets in operation less the amount of accumulated
              depreciation, as valued from time to time in accordance with
              sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation
              satisfactory to the Bank.
         (vi) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
              maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date
              on which it is originally incurred. Debt shall be deemed to
              be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or agreement or
              other instrument providing for such debt or for the
              modification of its terms of payment on the date of such
              contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a
              guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
              for such guarantee has been entered into.
        (vii) The term  "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
              amount of repayments (including payments out of  sinking
              funds, if any,) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
       (viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
              necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
              Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation
              shall be made on the basis of the prevailing market rate of
              exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
              such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
              such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
              a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     (e)    For the purpose of calculating the rate of return specified
in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out, not later
than December 31, in each Fiscal Year, a revaluation of its fixed assets
in operation, in accordance with sound and consistently applied methods
of valuation, acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.03. (a)Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated net
revenues of the Borrower (i) during each Fiscal Year up to and including
Fiscal Year 1999, shall be at least equal to the estimated debt service
requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower,
including the debt to be incurred; (ii) and for each Fiscal Year
thereafter shall be at least one and three-tenths (1.3) times said
estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year.
          (b) For the purposes of this Section:
          (i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
              maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the
              date on which it is originally incurred.  Debt shall be
              deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or
Page  8
              agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or
              for the modification of its terms of payment on the date
              of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
              a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
              for such guarantee has been entered into.
         (ii) The term "net revenues" means the difference between: (A)
              the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations
              and net non-operating income; and (B) the sum of all
              expenses related to operations including administration,
              adequate maintenance and  taxes, but excluding provision
              for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and
              interest and other charges on debt.
        (iii) The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
              between: (A) revenues from all sources other than those
              related to operations; and (B) expenses, including taxes,
              incurred in the generation of revenues in Sub-section
              (A) above.
         (iv) The term  "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
              amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
              any,) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
          (v) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
              by the Borrower not earlier than twelve (12) months prior
              to the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the
              Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to which
              the Bank has notified the Borrower of its acceptability,
              provided that no event has occurred since such notification
              which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
              have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition
              or future operating results of the Borrower.
         (vi) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
              necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
              Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation
              shall be made on the basis of the prevailing market rate of
              exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
              such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
              such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
              a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.04. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for
information, not later than December 31 in each Fiscal Year, its
projections in respect of its capital expenditures and of the demand for
power supplied by it, and its financial projections, all for the next
following five (5) Fiscal Years.
                             ARTICLE VI
                        Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations
or the financial condition of the Borrower or the ability of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (b)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or (B) any such loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
          (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the Bank, that: (A) such
Page  9
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the
agreement providing therefor ; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)   The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
     (b)   The event specified in subparagraph (b)(i) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions of subparagraph
(b)(ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VII
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
       (a) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of each of
the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan Agreement, the  ADB Loan Agreement,
the JEXIM Loan Agreement and the KfW Loan Agreement have been fulfilled,
other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
      (b) that the RAPs have been duly approved by the Borrower and all
necessary corporate and governmental approvals and actions have been
obtained or taken, as the case may be, to enable the RAPs to be
implemented in accordance with their terms.
      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VIII
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                    Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                   248423 (MCI)
                  Washington, D.C.             66145 (MCI)
      For the Borrower:
            National Power Corporation
            Quezon Avenue
            Diliman, Quezon City
            Republic of the Philippines
            Cable address:                    Telex:
                  NAPOCOR                     742-40120 (PM)
Page  10
                  Manila
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                              East Asia and Pacific
                  NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
                  By /s/ Raul Ch. Rabe
                                          Authorized Representative
                              SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
                          and the FIRSC Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and the FIRSC Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan and the FIRSC Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                  Amount of the     Amount of the
                  Loan Allocated      FIRSC Loan              % of
                   (Expressed in    (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category        Dollar Equivalent)     Dollars)           to be Financed
(1) Goods under     24,800,000         37,200,000        100% of foreign
    Parts A.2,                                           expenditures,
    A.4 and A.5                                          100% of local
    and Part C of                                        expenditures
    the Project                                          (ex-factory cost)
                                                         and 70% of local
                                                         expenditures for
                                                         other items
                                                         procured locally
(2) Goods and       46,000,000          69,000,000       85%
    related instal-
    lation under
    Part A.1 (b)
    and (c)
    of the Project
(3) Goods and       18,000,000           27,000,000      95%
    related instal-
    lation under
    Part B of
    the Project
(4) Works under      3,200,000            4,800,000      75%
    Parts A.4 and
    A.5 of the
    Project
(5) Consultants'     2,000,000            3,000,000      100%
    services and
    training under
Page  11
    the Project
(6) Unallocated      6,000,000            9,000,000
                     _________            _________
        TOTAL      100,000,000          150,000,000
                   ===========          ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Guarantor; and
      (b)   The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
of the proceeds of the Loan and the FIRSC Loan shall be made in respect of
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), may be made in respect of the Project
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
February 1, 1996.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from each of the Loan Account and
the FIRSC Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts for: (a) works valued at less than five
million dollars ($5,000,000) equivalent each; and goods valued at less than
one million dollars ($1,000,000); (b) the employment of consulting firms
valued at less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent each;
(c) the employment of individual consultants valued at less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent each; and (d) training; all under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to (i) assist in meeting demand for
electric power within the territory of the Guarantor by expanding and
reinforcing the Borrower's power transmission and local dispatch systems;
(ii) promote private sector participation in the operation of said
transmission systems; and (iii) support the continued restructuring of the
Borrower.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Extending the Borrower's extra high voltage (EHV) transmission
systems in northwest Luzon and western Visayas through:
(1)      Construction in Luzon of (a) a 230 kilovolt (kV) double circuit
transmission line from Masinloc to Labrador, (b) 500 kV transmission lines
from Labrador to San Manuel and San Jose; and  (c) a 230 kV double circuit
transmission line from Sual to Labrador.
(2)      Rehabilitation of the transmission line between Naga and Tayabas
in Luzon.
(3)      Construction of the 500/230 kV substations at Labrador, and San
Manuel and expansion of the 500/230 kV substation at San Jose.
(4)      Upgrading of  about eight 230/115-69 kV substations in Luzon.
(5)      Upgrading of the 138/69 kV subtransmission systems in Negros,
Panay and Cebu in Visayas.
Page  12
Part B:   Establishment of the Borrower's national load dispatch center
including the provision of expert design and training services, load
dispatch facilities, and communications and protection equipment.
Part C:     Carrying out of a program to establish the Borrower's
transmission activities as a separate profit center with a view to
establishment as a separate corporate entity, through the provision of
expert services and training, management information systems facilities
and office equipment and the construction of new physical premises for
said center.
                             **************
      The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                        Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (Expressed in dollars)*
August 15, 2001                            1,940,000.00
February 15, 2002                          2,010,000.00
August 15, 2002                            2,080,000.00
February 15, 2003                          2,150,000.00
August 15, 2003                            2,225,000.00
February 15, 2004                          2,305,000.00
August 15, 2004                            2,385,000.00
February 15, 2005                          2,465,000.00
August 15, 2005                            2,555,000.00
February 15, 2006                          2,640,000.00
August 15, 2006                            2,735,000.00
February 15, 2007                          2,830,000.00
August 15, 2007                            2,930,000.00
February 15, 2008                          3,030,000.00
August 15, 2008                            3,135,000.00
February 15, 2009                          3,245,000.00
August 15, 2009                            3,360,000.00
February 15, 2010                          3,475,000.00
August 15, 2010                            3,600,000.00
February 15, 2011                          3,725,000.00
August 15, 2011                            3,855,000.00
February 15, 2012                          3,990,000.00
August 15, 2012                            4,125,000.00
February 15, 2013                          4,270,000.00
August 15, 2013                            4,420,000.00
February 15, 2014                          4,575,000.00
August 15, 2014                            4,735,000.00
February 15, 2015                          4,900,000.00
August 15, 2015                            5,070,000.00
February 15, 2016                          5,240,000.00
__________________________
*   The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General
    Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                           The interest rate (expressed as
                                           a percentage per annum)
                                           applicable to the Loan on the
                                           day of prepayment multiplied
Page  13
                                           by:
Not more than three years                         0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                         0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                           0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                    0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                   0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity
More than eighteen years before                   1.00
      maturity
                             SCHEDULE 4
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines of Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the "Guidelines").
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and related
installation works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and related
installation works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Prequalification
      Bidders for the 500 kV transmission line under Part A (1)  (b) and
(c) of the Project and for the national load dispatch center facilities
under Part  B of the Project shall be prequalified in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Grouping of Contracts
      To the extent practicable contracts for goods and related
installation works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
five million dollars ($5,000,000) equivalent or more each.
      (c)   Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
      The provision of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereof shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Guarantor.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000)
equivalent or less per contract, and sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000)
Page  14
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its  review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for (i) works and (ii) goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 and $1,000,000 or more respectively,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 of theGuidelines shall 
apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines").
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost
less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                       Implementation Program
A.    Reporting
        Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, on each March 31,
June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each Fiscal Year, beginning with
Fiscal Year 1996, furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a
quarterly report, of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
require, on the progress achieved to date in implementing the Project.
Page  15
B.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that all
persons shall be resettled or otherwise compensated in accordance with
RAP-1.
2.   To that end, the Borrower shall: (i) prior to undertaking any
resettlement or compulsary acquisition of property under Part A of the
Project, submit to the Bank for its approval a detailed resettlement
action plan relative to such resettlement or acquisition; (ii) implement
said resettlement action plan; (iii) maintain operational procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on a regular basis, in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of
the RAPs; (iv) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than April 30,
July 31, October 31 and January 31 in each Fiscal Year during which
resettlement activities are carried out, a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the monitoring and
evaluation activities carried out pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this
Section, together with any additional measures proposed to further the
progress in the carrying out of the RAPs; and (v) promptly take all such
measures referred to in subparagraph (iv) of this Section, taking into
account the comments and the views of the Bank thereon.
C.    Corporate Restructuring
      For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall (i)
carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank of the
establishment of the Borrower's transmission activities as a separate
corporate entity; and (ii) establish, by March 31, 1997, or such other
date as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree, a holding company
possessing a legal personality, attributes, functions, and resources
acceptable to the Bank.
D.    Tariff Restructuring
      The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1996, submit for
approval by the Guarantor's Energy Regulatory Board  proposals, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, for a revised electricity tariff
rate structure designed, inter alia, to incorporate long run marginal
cost principles, to remove cross-subsidies between electricity grids, and
to introduce appropriate charges for wheeling and ancillary services in
the Luzon grid.
                             SCHEDULE 6
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4,
and 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   The term "Eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
      (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
one million dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of five
million dollars ($5,000,000).
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  16
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                  Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                  request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                  and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                  Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
      (a)   If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and
accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   If, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
Page  17
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
