Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3996 PH
                              Guarantee Agreement
                     (Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project
                               Currency Pool Loan)
                                     between
                          REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                                       and
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                 AND DEVELOPMENT
                               Dated May 15, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3996 PH
                             GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated  May 15, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (the "Guarantor") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank").
      WHEREAS: (A) The Guarantor and the National Power Corporation (the
"Borrower"), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to  an agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Borrower (the "Currency Pool Loan Agreement"),
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS: (B) By the Currency Pool Loan Agreement, the Bank has
agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent
one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Currency Pool Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS: (C) The Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Currency Pool Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank dated January 1, 1985,  (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section
1.02 of the Currency Pool Loan Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                              ARTICLE II
                    Guarantee; Provision of Funds
      Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Guarantor hereby uncondi-
tionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the
due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the
Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Currency Pool Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes,
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to
the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required
for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
                               ARTICLE III
                             Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall take, or cause to be taken, all
measures necessary on its part to enable the Borrower, promptly as
required, to adjust the structure or levels of its tariffs in order to
comply with its obligations under Section 5.02 of the Currency Pool Loan
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall, not later than July 30, 1996,
present to its Congress for consideration a proposed Omnibus Electric
Power Industry Code, which proposed legislation it shall certify as an
administration bill.
      Section 3.03.  The Guarantor shall: (i) take all measures necessary
on its part to continue to carry out the  restructuring and privatization
plans set out in the Energy Plan with due diligence and efficiency; (ii)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30 in each Fiscal
Year, commencing with Fiscal year 1996, a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank may reasonably request, on the progress achieved
in the carrying out of said plans during the preceding twelve (12) month
period, together with any revisions proposed to be introduced into said
plans; and (iii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Guarantor on each such report.
      Section 3.04.  The Guarantor shall: (i) not later than October 1 in
each Fiscal Year, commencing with Fiscal Year 1996, exchange views with
the Bank and the Borrower on each power development program furnished to
it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.06 (a) of the Currency Pool Loan
Agreement; and (ii) thereafter promptly take all measures necessary on its
part to enable the Borrower to carry out, in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.06 of the Currency Pool Loan Agreement, such power development
program as agreed upon among the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower
pursuant to said Section.
      Section 3.05.  The Guarantor shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1996,
furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request, on the results of
(A) an analysis by the Guarantor of currently existing inefficiencies in
the load dispatch within its power sector, and (B) its proposed time-bound
action plan for eliminating said inefficiencies, which plan shall include
specific steps for the promotion of competition in the generation of power
within its territory; and (ii) promptly following the completion of said
review by the Bank, implement said action plan with due diligence and
Page  3
efficiency, taking into account the Bank's views and comments thereon.
                               ARTICLE IV
              Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
      Section 4.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Guarantor:
            Department of Finance
            Executive Tower
            Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex
            Manila
            Republic of the Philippines
            Cable address:          Telex:
                  SECFIN            40268 CB CONF
                  Manila
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
            INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
            Washington, D.C.                64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above  written.
                        REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                        By /s/ Raul Ch. Rabe
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
