Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 25103
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24560)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.5 MILLION (US$26.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
RWANDA ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION AND URBAN WASTE MANAGEMENT
PROJECT
November 27, 2003
Eerg Unst
Afrks R-&
|lbis doommhas a resticted distribution and may be wed by recipients only in the pfomance of their
official duties lls oontet  may not otewise be disclopw without World Bank auw on.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Umt = Rwanda Francs
RWF 1.00 = US$ 0.002
US$ 1 = RWF 469
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                  African Development Bank
BADEA                 Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CCCE                  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French aid agency, now Agence de
Developpement Francaise)
CPPR                  Country Portfolio Performance Review
DCA                   Development Credit Agreement
EIB                   European Investment Bank
ELECTROGAZ            Etablissement Publique de Production de Transport et de la Distribution de l'Eau,
d'Electricite et de Gaz (the public utility company)
ESRP                  Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IDA                   International Development Association
MICOMART              Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Handicrafts
MINAGRI               Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry
MINERENA              Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural Resources (successor of MINITRAPE)
MINITRAPE             Ministry of Public Works and Energy
NGO                   Non-governmental organization
PCAU                  Project Coordination and Administration Unit
PCD                   Project Concept Document
PFP                   Policy Framework Paper
PIP                   Project Investment Plan
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
PMU                   Project Monitoring Unit
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
PSR                   Project Status Report
PVK                   Prefecture de la Ville de Kigali (Kigali City Hall)
QAG                   Quality Assurance Group
SAR                   Staff Apraisal Report
SDR                   Special Drawing Rights
SINELAC               Societe Internationale de l'Electricite des Pays des Grands Lacs (Operator of Ruzizi II
hydro power plant)
TTL                   Task Team Leader
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:     Emmnanuel Mbi
Sector Manager/Director:    Ananda Covindassamy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Ludmilla Butenko



RWANDA
Rwanda Energy Secor Rehabilitation and Urban Waste Wanagement Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              12
6. Sustainability                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 16
9. Partner Comments                                                                17
10. Additional Information                                                         37
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               38
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               39
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              46






Project ID: P002241                                       Project Name: RW Energy Sector
Team Leader: Ludmilla Butenko                             TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: November 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: RW Energy Sector                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-24560
Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF RWANDA                                   Region  Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Power (51%); Mining and other extractive (16%);
Central government administration (15%);
Renewable energy (10%); Oil & gas (8%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/10/1987                             Effective: 01/21/1994         01/21/1994
Appraisal:  03/25/1992                                MTR: 01/01/2000
Approval:  02/09/1993                              Closing: 12/31/1998          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT OF RWANDA/ELECTROGAZ; MINITRAPE (MINERENA), Prefecture
de la Ville de Kigali (PVK)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Emmanuel Mbi                              Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Ananda Covindassamy                       Michael Sarris
Team Leader at ICR:  Ludmilla Butenko                          Richard Senou
ICR Primary Author:  Ludmilla Butenko;
Marie-Chantal Uwanyiligira
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neglgible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance. S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project (ESRP), later renamed Rwanda Energy Sector Rehabilitation and
Urban Waste Management Project, had an overall objective of providing comprehensive support to the
implementation of economic reform in the energy sector. The main objective, as defined in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) of January 13, 1993 (Report No. 11241-RW), was to promote rational energy policies while
minimizing adverse environmental implications and establish the basis for efficient utilization of Rwanda's energy
resources. The four specific objectives were:
*   create an enabling legal and regulatory environment;
*   enhance the efficiency of ELECTROGAZ's operations;
*   provide technical assistance and training to key sector institutions to build up investment planning capacity;
strengthen government capacity to formulate a coherent sector policy and monitor sector activities including
those related to woodfuel, methane, petroleum productsand least-cost power supply alternatives for rural areas;
*   rehabilitate key power infrastructure.
The basic principle underpinning the project was that the Government would establish the policy environment but
commercial decisions would be left to private economic agents.
The objectives of the ESRP reflected the economic policy of the Rwandan Government and fitted well into the
economic reform program detailed in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1991-1993. The PFP placed the
emphasis on recourse to market forces and private sector, aiming at: (i) creation of a climate conducive to private
sector activity; (ii) improvement and rationalization of public sector management; (iii) development of the human
resource base; and (iv) improvement of natural resources management. The objectives of the project were also in
line with the draft law on Institutional Reform of Public Enterprises adopted by the Council of Ministers in
December, 1992 and the Govemment's energy policy reflected in the Statement of Development Policy for the
Energy Sector of November 1992. The energy policy focused, inter alia, on (i) adoption of least cost solutions for
investments in the sector; (ii) regeneration and expansion of the potential of woodfuel production; (iii) improved
efficiency in the production of electricity, water, woodfuel and charcoal; (iv) identification of altemative sources of
energy; (v) rehabilitation of key power infrastructures; and (vi) extension of electricity supply to rural areas.
In 1993 the Govemment adopted the institutional reform program for the electricity subsector opting to contract
out the operations of ELECTROGAZ, the national power, water and gas utility, to a private operator through a
lease contract and launched a selection process. It also agreed to implement a revised electricity tariff structure.
On the investment side, in October 1991 the Govemment introduced a system of three-year rolling Project
Investment Plan (PIP) with a view to integrate the selection of energy projects into clearly defined sectoral
objectives and a comprehensive macroeconomic framework.
The ESRP objectives were realistic and the risks were considered low for several reasons. First, a significant
amount of preparatory work supported project design, including numerous sector studies done through previous
projects and the ESRP Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Second, the Government's track record of implementing
difficult decisions to create an enabling environment for the path of reforms suggested that the risk of not taking
necessary measures, i.e. implementation of a revised energy pncing policy and restructuring of ELECTROGAZ,
was not high. Third, the physical risks of the project were considered minimal, as the planned rehabilitation work
was routine. The scope and scale of the project seemed justified at the time of the project preparation. Overall, the
Government is said to have been well perceived by the donor community, as demonstrated by the co-financing
approach adopted initially by the ESRP, and by the high level of foreign assistance to Rwanda at that time.
However, the project recognized a weakness of the Govemment's administrative and financial management
capacity and made an appropriate provision for technical assistance to support the implementation of the ESRP
activities.
-2-



The total estimated cost of the Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project was US$ 38.95 million. It was to be financed
jointly by the Intemational Development Association (IDA) - 66.76%, French aid agency Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) - 6.96 %, European Investment Bank (EIB) - 20.32% and the Government -
5.96 %. The IDA Credit (Cr. 2456-RW) in the amount of SDR 18.5 million (US$ 26 million equivalent) was
approved by the Board on February 9, 1993, signed on April 21, 1993, and became effective on January 21, 1994.
The original closing date of the project was December 31, 1998.
The first few months of the project implementation showed promising results but the project activities were
interrupted by the civil war that culminated in the 1994 genocide. The general view of persons involved in the
project preparation is that there was no indication of the potential for the civil war and the ensuing genocide at the
time. This is confirmed by the absence of any reference to these factors in the available project documentation
including the SAR and the Board minutes. The war delayed the implementation of the ESRP for almost two years
as the project entities suffered huge losses of assets, irrecoverable dislocation of staff and cessation of project
activities during and immediately after the genocide. The project resumed in 1995 after the country embarked on a
post-war emergency reconstruction program under a new Govemment established in late 1994.
The war and the resulting institutional weaknesses had a deep negative impact on infrastructure services delivery,
especially on provision of electricity and water. ELECTROGAZ was technically bankrupt despite high electricity
prices (US$0.15/kWh since January 1994). Tumaround of the utility became an essential part of the new
Govemment's structural and economic reforms program. From end 1995 to mid 1998 there were three attempts
made to improve energy sector efficiency through three different time-bound proposals. Although unsuccessful,
these efforts led to forging a consensus on the need for a fundamental restructuring and privatization of
ELECTROGAZ.
The interruption of the project implementation and the need to adjust the project scope to the post-conflict needs
and constraints called for a revision of the project objectives.
3.2 RevLsed Objective:
The ESRP was conceived before the 1994 genocide as a vehicle to improve energy sector operating efficiency. In
the face of severe institutional capacity constraints resulting from the civil war, Government progress with the
sector reform, particularly the restructuring of ELECTROGAZ, was extremely slow and the project
implementation was substantially delayed. Country circumstances also influenced the co-financiers who, due to
arrears from the Govemment, pulled out of the project. Their funding, in the amount of US$ 10.63 million (SDR
7.56 million) was mostly intended for financing the infrastructure rehabilitation program and in any event was no
longer adequate after the war. The Bank remained the only financier of the ESRP with a reduced scope,
maintaining a Credit of SDR 18.5 million In November 1994 the Bank organized a Donors meeting in Paris to
mobilize the necessary resources to assist the Govemment in carrying out emergency reconstruction activities. The
new program of emergency water and electricity infrastructure rehabilitation was financed outside the ESRP by
other donors, mainly Canada and Germany, for an amount of about US$ 6 million.
Reflecting the difficulties in project implementation the Project Status Reports (PSRs) rated the Development
Objective and the Implementation Progress of the project as unsatisfactory for over three years until mid 1998.
Despite the poor implementation performance, the Government requested the Bank's not to cancel the Credit but to
restructure the project instead. The Govemment proposed to retain the overall sector efficiency improvement
objective and to add a specific new objective to improve sanitation conditions within the overpopulated city of
Kigali through the design and implementation of a system for solid waste collection. The Government also
requested the Bank to focus the energy component only on the restructuring of ELECTROGAZ and to reallocate a
part of the Credit proceeds to a new waste management collection component to be implemented in the city of
Kigali.
-3-



During the civil war solid waste in the streets of the capital accumulated for months. In 1994 financial assistance
for the clean-up was provided by some donors but no mechanism to sustain the activity was put in place. The
sanitary situation was exacerbated by a massive influx of refugees that created an additional problem, including the
disposal of sewage and solid waste, for the city management.
To make the project more responsive to the country's post-war situation and to reflect the new Government
strategy the project was restructured and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended in August,
1998. The project objectives were revised in line with the management's proposal to restructure existing projects to
respond better to the new situation prevailing in Rwanda. The amendment (Report No. P-7222-RW) was prepared
to reallocate funds among the categories and to incorporate activities for solid waste management in Kigali into the
project. It also included a special provision for retroactive financing of collection equipment already procured by
the Borrower and for some of the operating costs. Through the restructuring of the ESRP the Bank was to assist
the Government in resolving an issue that could have developed into a serious sanitation and health problem.
As a result, the following two new project objectives were added to ESRP:
(i)    contribute to the improvement of the sanitation conditions related to waste disposal in the city of Kigali;
and
(ii)   help Prefecture de la Ville de Kigali (PVK) to establish a minimum physical and institutional capacity for
sustainable improvement of waste sector management, including a cost recovery policy.
The Credit amount of SDR 18.5 million remained unchanged and one more expenditure category was added to
allow disbursements to cover operating costs. The closing date remained unchanged. In December 1998, a partial
cancellation of funds (SDR 4.98 million) that were intended to finance investments in distribution was done and
the project closing date was extended to December 31, 1999 (See "Revised Components" p. 7 for more details).
Later, the project was extended two more times - to December 31, 2000 and, finally, to December 31, 2001. The
project, therefore, had an effective implementation period of five years within a seven-year life span.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project consisted of two main components:
Component A: Strengthening Regulatory and Policy Environment (US$12.40 million), including:
*   institutional reform program for the power subsector (including revision of the legal framework and
engagement of a private operator for ELECTROGAZ under a lease contract) (US$5.7 million);
*   improvements in the charcoal subsector (introduction of incentives to rationalize and improve subsector
efficiency) (US$4.25 million);
*   solar home systems (studies to design and implement a strategy for solar home systems as a cost efficient
alternative for electrification in rural areas) (US$0.26 million);
*  Kivu methane gas development (implementation of environmental and technical guidelines for future
development of Lake Kivu methane gas (US$1.33 million);
*  technical assistance to the petroleum sector (training to strengthen the institutional capacity of
MICOMART to implement the reform of the taxation and pricing of petroleum products) (US$0.60
million).
Component B: Power Subsector (US$20.28 million), that aimed at rehabilitation and improvement of key power
infrastructure, including:
*   distribution rehabilitation and extension (for five cities) (US$8.01 million);
*   transmission improvements (improvements in the transmission network substations including the addition
of two 110 kV bays at the Mururu I substations) (US$4.50 million);
*   hydro plant rehabilitation (overhaul of the Mukungwa I hydro power station, and hydraulic structures of
-4 -



the Gisenyi and Gihira hydro plants) (US$2.40 millions);
*   spares, maintenance equipment and tools (constitution of a reserve stock of spare parts for plants and
substations (US$2.50 million);
*   technical assistance and training (capacity building and training for (i) the staff of the Project
Coordination and Administration Unit (PCAU) and Project Implementation Units (PlUs) in areas of
project monitoring and management; and (ii) strengthening of the investment planning and monitonng
capacity of the utility staff) (US$0.87 million);
*   feasibility studies for hydroplants (US$ 2.00 million).
The project also included an amount of US$6.53 in physical and price contingencies. Both components of ESRP
were in line with the development objective of promoting rational energy policies and establishing the basis for the
efficient utilization of Rwanda's energy resources, while minimizing adverse environmental implications. In
addition, the Component B was complementary to the rehabilitation and improvement of power infrastructure
carried out under the Energy I Project (Cr. 1495-RW).
Project design is rated satisfactory in terms of component packaging. The weakness in the Government's
administrative and financial management capacity was recognized during project preparation and appropriate
provisions were made for technical assistance to enhance the existing capacity. However, the project components
should have been better aligned to meet the development objective.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Amendment of August 1998 included: (i) an urban waste management component; (ii) financing of a part of
the project's operating costs; and (iii) retroactive financing of expenses already incurred by the Government for the
waste management and some operating costs for the project coordination unit, in the amount of US$3.6 million. A
waste management component for the City of Kigali was added to improve the disposal of solid and liquid waste by
implementing a sustainable arrangement to delegate responsibility for collection and disposal of solid wastes and
septic tanks contents to local private contractors.
The restructured project, renamed Energy Sector Rehabilitation and Urban Waste Management project, contained
two main parts: the Energy Component and the Urban Waste Management Component.
Energy Component (SDR 15.33 million) representing 83 percent of the project costs, included:
Part A - Strengtheninz of Regjulatorv and Policy Framework:
*   strengthening of regulatory and policy framework, mainly technical assistance to prepare the restructuring
package for ELECTROGAZ (splitting it into three entities (electricity, water, gas);
*   training of charcoal and improved stoves producers;
*   training in maintenance of photovoltaic systems;
*   provision of funds to carry out a bathymetric survey and an environmental impact study of the identified
sites on the Lake Kivu;
*   strengthening of the capacity of MICOMART, provision of equipment and training to a small monitonng
and analysis unit for petroleum products within MICOMART;
*   provision of resources to the management of the project (project operating costs).
Part B - Rehabilitation and Improvement of Key Power Infrastructure:
*   rehabilitation and extension of the distribution network in the cities of Kigali, Butare, Gisenyi,
Nyabisindu, and Ruhengeri;
*   studies to determine the improvements in transmission networks substations including the addition of two
110 kV bays at the Mururu I substation);
*   studies to identify overhauling works in the Mukungwa I hydro power station, including the hydraulic
structures of the Gisenyi and Gihira hydro stations;
*   constitution of a reserve stock of spare parts for substations and maintenance equipment and tools;
- 5 -



*   capacity building of the PMU and staff involved the management and monitoring of the energy
component of the Project and training of students through scholarship;
*   feasibility study for hydroplant (Nyabarongo).
Urban Waste Management (SDR 3.17 million), representing 17 percent of the project cost, included:
Subcomponent I - Collection and disposal of earbaxze and septaMe:
*   design of a pilot collection and disposal scheme, limited to about 40 percent of the population of Kigali,
involving local communities and private sector participation (in case of success, an extension of the pilot was
to be considered under an Urban project planned for FY03);
* studies of cost recovery/financial resource mobilization, leasing arrangements between the local private
contractors and the PVK for the rented and/or leased equipment, with affordability/willingness to pay surveys;
*   a study to establish a proper institutional framework for PVK while strengthening its financial management
capacity through technical assistance;
*   definition and implementation of a strategy for community participation and liason including sensitization,
infornation and marketing programs, and training and capacity building under contractual arrangements with
NGOs;
*   equipment purchase, including weighing stations, and rehabilitation of bulldozers;
*   minimal upgrading of the existing dump site and construction of collection stations.
Subcomponent 2 - Preparation of an extension phase, with the phasing out of the existing dumpsite and the
selection of a new sanitary landfill:
* a study on sanitary landfill identification and preparation, including an environmental impact study;
* closing of the existing dumpsite;
* study of the treatment and reuse of septage and garbage.
The following table contains revised project components financed under the Credit and the respective allocations
(in SDR million):
Components                              Initial       Revised
allocation     allocation
1. ENERGY COMPONENT
A - Regulatory and Sector Policy Strengthening              7.46           4.78
1. Institutional reform for ELECTROGAZ                  2.80           2.80
2. Training of charcoal and improved stove producers    2.95           0.07
3. Training on solar energy                             0.18           0.02
4. Bathymetric study of Lake Kivu                        1.04          0.78
5. TA to petroleum sector                               0.49           0.49
6. Project Coordination Unit                            0.00           0.62
B - Rehabilitation/lmprovement of Electricity Infrastructure  11.04        10.55
1. Rehabilitation and extension of distribution in five cities  6.56   5.14
2. Improvements of transmission network                 0.00           0.71
3. Rehabilitation of hydro power plants                 0.00           0.71
4. Reserve spare parts and equipment                    2.11           2.11
5. TA and training                                      0.74           0.74
6. Feasibility study: Nyabarongo                         1.63           1.14
II. URBAN WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT                            0.00           3.17
1. Works                                                0.00           0.29
2. Equipment and spare parts                            0.00            1.85
-6 -



3. Capacity building and training                       0.00           0.80
4. Consulting services including Promotion and Public   0.00           0.23
information
TOTAL                                                          18.50          18.50
Due to continuing delays in project implementation and changes in the Government's sector reform strategy, by the
end of 1998 it became obvious that the physical rehabilitation of the key infrastructure, as well as management of
ELECTROGAZ operations by a private company would not start before the project closing date. In December
1998, at the request from the Government, the project closing date was extended for one year to December 31,
1999, and a partial cancellation of funds was done. The Energy Component was refocused on sector reforms and
the restructuring of ELECTROGAZ, while physical rehabilitation was left for a later stage, when the reform
process would be more advanced and competent management of the utility would be in place. As a result of the
change in the scope of the project, an amount of SDR 4.98 million, previously allocated to infrastructure in the
power sector, was cancelled reducing the total credit amount to SDR 13.52 million. See Annex 2.
The revised objectives and resulting new components of the project reflected the IDA post-war strategy for Rwanda
which made a strong case for "...exceptional assistance to overcome the legacies of genocide and make a transition
to peace and development...", as reflected in the CAS approved by the Board on April 7, 1998. The new CAS
emphasized the transition from post-war emergency to sustainable growth. The energy, water and sanitation
sectors were recognized as key sectors for the economic recovery and social stability. The restructuring and
privatization of ELECTROGAZ became an important part of the Government's reform program and poverty
reduction efforts. Reliable energy supply was considered essential for private sector development and creation of
employment.
3.5 Qualhty at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not do an assessment of the project's quality at entry. The ICR finds the
quality at entry, on balance, to be satisfactory. Project objectives and components were in line with the
Governmenfs economic reform program at the time, aimed at achieving macroeconomic stability, improving
competitiveness of the economy and stimulating economic recovery, which was supported by the first adjustment
credit (SAC) approved in June 1991. The ESRP was consistent with the CAS of June 17, 1992 that accorded high
priority to: (i) supporting the country's adjustment process; (ii) developing an incentive structure for private sector
investment; (iii) reducing the role of the state and improving public resource management; (iv) developing human
resources, building local capacity and alleviating poverty; and (v) fostering improved management of natural
resources while protecting the environment.
The project SAR displayed carefully designed components The technical and institutional design seemed realistic
and achievable. The dialogue with the Borrower during project preparation and appraisal indicated that
institutional development of the sector was a Government priority. The long-standing intensive dialogue on the
restructuring of ELECTROGAZ that preceded project appraisal paved the way for the expected privatization of the
utility. In addition, the project design included mechanisms to leverage action to achieve project objectives,
including conditions of negotiations, effectiveness and disbursement.
The management of the project involved coordination between several ministries and agencies: Ministry of Public
Works and Energy (MINITRAPE), Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry (MINAGRI), Ministry of
Commerce, Industry and Handicrafts (MICOMART) and ELECTROGAZ. MINITRAPE was responsible for the
overall coordination and supervision of the program and was expected to implement directly the activities related
to woodfuel, gas and solar systems. MINAGRI was responsible for implementation of charcoal master plan and
MICOMART for the implementation of the petroleum products component. ELECTROGAZ was the
implementing agency for the power subsector components. A project coordination and administration unit
(PCAU) was to be established within MINITRAPE and project implementation units (PlUs) were to be set up in all
the four implementing agencies. Recognizing the complexity of having multiple implementing agencies in the
project, a Technical Assistance and Training component was included in the project to provide capacity building
and training for the staff of the PCAU and PlUs in areas of project monitoring and management; and to strengthen
- 7 -



investment planning and monitoring capacity of the utility staff.
While the overall risk assessment seemed reasonable at the time of appraisal, the subsequent genocide and civil
war that were hard to anticipate delayed the project implementation significantly. The risks related to political
instability and the resulting scarcity of manpower and low implementation capability of the sector institutions were
not assessed, though during the project implementation they were the key reasons for delays in the Government
policy reform program and the implementation of the restructuring of ELECTROGAZ.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
For the purpose of this rating the ICR focuses on the revised project objectives approved in the 1998 project
restructuring. The ICR rates the overall achievement of project objectives as marginally satisfactory. This rating is
based on the project accomplishments at the time of ICR. Assessment is based on the information collected from a
number of sources: PSRs, Aide-Memoirs of Bank's supervision missions, including ICR mission of April 2002,
President's Memoranda regarding proposed amendments to legal agreements, as well as interviews with some
beneficiaries and stakeholders.
The project was implemented in a very difficult period for Rwanda and, although it made an important
contribution to the country's implementation of the energy sector reform, it achieved its development objectives
only partially. The project was appraised before the introduction of the logical framework approach and its
evaluation is based on the indicators developed during project implementation and supervision. Annex I of the
ICR summarizes these outcome/impact and output indicators.
Creation of an enabling legal and regulatory environment. This objective was achieved. The content of this
objective evolved over the life of the project. At the time of the SAR the Government strategy, aimed at
implementation of an institutional reform program for the power sector, required consulting services to revise the
law and statutes governing the activities of ELECTROGAZ to permit contracting out the utility operations to a
private operator through a lease contract. Two successor companies of ELECROGAZ were to be established: one
owning the assets and the other operating the utility. The operating arm of thus restructured ELECTROGAZ was
supposed to be leased out. The implementation of this strategy was interrupted by the civil war.
After the war a series of workshops and seminars with key policymakers and civil society were organized from
end-1995 through 1996 to help reach consensus on the substance and timing of the reform. By the end of 1997 the
Government adopted a new two-stage strategy that included: (i) 12-18 months operational assistance to
ELECTROGAZ through a management contract, and (ii) a study of the options for privatization of
ELECTROGAZ. The selection process to hire a pnvate operator was launched. A consulting company was hired
to help the Govemment with the evaluation of bids, as well as to assist with exploring options for further reform
after the management contract would terminate, preparation of a sector development strategy, electricity law and
sector regulation and negotiating the management contract with the selected private operator. Hydro Quebec
Intemational (HQI) was selected as the winning bidder. However, the contract was not signed as the newly
appointed Board of ELECTROGAZ disagreed with the results of the selection. Numerous discussions were held
with the Govemment on how it intended to resolve the issues related to power sector reform.
By July 1998 the Govemment announced its new strategy, that now called for splitting of ELECTROGAZ into
three separate companies (electricity, water, and gas). The Bank was asked to finance consulting services and costs
associated with the implementation of that strategy. As a result, the operational assistance (management contract)
was not required any more and negotiations with HQI terminated. It was agreed to recruit an investment bank as
an Advisor to assist the Govermment in splitting the utility into three entities and initiate their privatization. An
Advisor was recruited and the work required to change the legal framework was carried out. A new law abolishing
ELECTROGAZ's monopoly in generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, water and gas was approved
by the Parliament allowing participation of private operators.
- 8-



In May 2000 the Government decided to keep ELECROGAZ as a single entity that would be managed by a private
operator for five years with subsequent privatization. The Government approved the ELECTROGAZ restructuring
plan; launched in July 2000 the pre-qualification process for potential private operators; the Cabinet approved the
creation of a multi-sector regulatory authority in August 2000. The petroleum sector was liberalized as a result of
the project and a new regulatory framework was developed. PETRORWANDA, the public petroleum company,
and the petroleum storage depots were privatized.
Enhance the efficiency of ELECTROGAZ's operations.
This objective was not achieved. A central part of the sector development objective was to restructure
ELECTROGAZ. Before the war ELECTROGAZ seemed to have sufficient capacity to carry out the planned
activities. After the genocide the situation of the utility significantly deteriorated and the attempts to improve its
efficiency were not very successful. The utility had numerous problems: overstaffing with lack of qualified
manpower, absence of financial systems, controls and discipline leading to large accounts receivable with arrears
from the public sector and private clients, lack of maintenance, high transmission and distribution losses.
Institutional capacity was non-existent to actively pursue viable options for addressing the needs of the rural
population or to develop other energy sources (methane gas). As a result of these issues disbursements for this
sub-component were slow and the project was rated unsatisfactory for over three years.
The Bank suggested to the Government to cancel the Credit if the project was not a suitable vehicle for
restructuring or the timing was not appropriate. After several discussions of this nature, the use of remedies was
discussed during two CPPRs. By end-1996, some tangible results were obtained: a new project coordination unit
(PCU) was fully operational and electricity and water tariffs were adjusted to reflect the devaluation of the
Rwandan Franc. In April 1997, the Government took measures that positively affected ELECTROGAZ, including
the appointment of a new minister to MINITRAPE and the replacement of the former meffective Managing
Director of ELECTROGAZ by a new appointment with an international experience in management. The new
management of ELECTROGAZ established an internal audit function, and insisted on improving billing and
collection of overdue accounts and on the disconnection of non-paying consumers, including Government entities.
Review of the organization structure, rules, procedures, and personnel practices was carried out. However, due to
the delays in restructuring, the performance of the utility was still not satisfactory. The objective of change of
management of ELECROGAZ to a private operator was not fully achieved by the end of the project. The selection
process was launched under ESRP but it continued beyond December 31, 2001 under a different project.
Technical assistance and training of key sector institutions.
This objective was achieved. Please refer to the assessment of the training components. However, in the light of
post-war difficulties, the project could have included training of a larger number of staff or provide the services of
expert institutional capacity building consultants to assist PIUs in their financial management and procurement
activities to implement and manage the project activities more efficiently.
Rehabilitation of key power infrastructure.
Though retained as an objective after the 1998 ESRP restructuring, rehabilitation of infrastructure was minimized,
as the Government decided to focus on the institutional aspects and not to finance physical investments for the
extremely inefficient utility. The emergency rehabilitation of the power system was carried out by end-1995 using
grant funds from other donors. The support specified by this objective was limited to various studies, which were
successfully carried out. This revised objective was achieved.
Improvement of the sanitation conditions related to waste disposal in the city of Kigali and related capacity
building.
This objective was not achieved. Although a lot of progress was made on the studies, design and preparation of the
scheme (the PVK defined zones and franchise for the collection of waste by private operators; a list, mapping and
designs for 180 containers were prepared; .he topographic survey of Nyanza dump site was done and equipment
was procured), the physical implementation of the collection and disposal of solid waste was not completed.
-9-



4.2 Outputs by components:
1.     Energy Component: overall rating is marginally satisfactory.
The Regulatory and Sector Policy Strengthening sub-component is rated marginally satisfactory. Although this
subcomponent helped move forward the sector reform agenda in a period when Rwandan economy was recovering
from the 1994 events, the restructuring of ELECTROGAZ process was not fully completed. Despite the three
extensions of the Credit, attempts to improve ELECTROGAZ's efficiency through three different action plans were
unsuccessful. However, this long-lasting dialogue helped to reach a fundamental consensus on the restructuring of
ELECTROGAZ. After a long evolution the strategy concentrated on a two-step process: an initial
performance-based management contract with a private operator and then a private concession. The selection of a
private operator, originally planned to be completed under ESRP, is now expected to be completed under the
Competitiveness and Development Project (Cr. 3499) approved in 2001. It is expected that a private operator will
be in place by December 2002.
The training sub-components are rated satisfactory.
Fifty producers of improved stoves were trained by the project which enabled them to resume stoves production.
Charcoal is traditionally produced through a wasteful process leading to a loss of about 80 percent of the energy
contained in wood. The training of charcoal and efficient stoves producers contributed to the reduction in the
consumption of woodfuel and charcoal reducing the related negative environmental impact of these activities.
Twenty technicians specializing in the maintenance of home solar energy systems were trained. This contributed
to a restoration of the number of solar systems to the pre- 1994 level. These systems are used mostly in schools,
hospitals and households located in the rural areas where there is no access to other modem sources of energy. In
addition, about 15 staff from the Ministry of Energy and ELECTROGAZ were trained in project preparation and
implementation as well as in functioning of the utility regulatory agencies.
The methane gas sub-component is rated satisfactory. The planned studies were carried out, and the project helped
in developing a package to attract potential private investors. It included: (i) a conducive regulatory framework (an
act was drafted to promote the exploration, development and production of indigenous petroleum); (ii) a model
agreement for a service contract (production sharing), (iii) a complete bathymetric survey of the Lake Kivu
including environmental impact survey of the identified sites, and (iv) a promotional document for potential
private investors. In addition, the project helped the Government in promoting private sector participation in the
development and exploitation of the methane gas reserves of the Lake Kivu. This resulted in an expression of
interest from some local operators. In January 2002, the Government signed a memorandum of understanding
with a local consortium to start developing and exploitation of methane gas reserves of the Lake Kivu to produce
electricity. The Consortium, formed by a local private bank (Banque de Commerce et d'lndustrie du Rwanda) and
a private investor (BRALIRWA, a Rwandan branch of Heineken Intemational which is the only beneficiary of the
methane gas pilot station in Gisenyi) is now carrying out a feasibility study. It is expected that the exploitation will
commence in 2003. Such undertaking has a potential to help meet the unserved demand for electricity in the
country.
Technical assistance to Petroleum sector sub-component is rated satisfactory. Under the project, the sector was
completely liberalized and a new regulatory framework was developed and enacted. PETRORWANDA and the
petroleum storage depots were privatized and transferred to a reputable intemational petroleum company, Shell
International, through a concession arrangement done in a transparent manner. State pricing control was
eliminated and prices are now set by the market. The role of the Government was reduced to monitoring aspects,
through the Ministry of Commerce. A small petroleum monitoring and analysis unit within MICOMART was
established. However, although the equipment for the unit was bought and the existing staff was trained, by the
end of the project the unit was still not fully operational due to insufficiency of qualified personnel.
- 10-



Project Coordination Unit subcomponent is rated satisfactory.
Originally, the DCA did not include an "operating costs" category as the overall project implementation was the
responsibility of government departments and agencies involved. The PCAU that was established for the project
coordination was the responsibility of the MINITRAPE and comprised the Director of the Directorate of Energy
and Petroleum Products of the MINITRAPE (Head of the PCAU), one representative from MICOMART,
MINAGRI and MINITRAPE each, and a representative of ELECTROGAZ. The Head of the PCAU coordinated
the overall implementation of the project while the day-to-day implementation was done by each Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) established within each Ministry and Agency involved.
After the 1994 genocide and civil war, the Government capacity was weakened and the project implementation was
seriously hampered. To remedy this, it was agreed with the Government that a Project Management Unit (PCU),
independent from MINITRAPE and all the involved agencies, would be created. This was done in mid-1995 when
project implementation was resumed. Given the Government budget constraints, it became necessary to support
the PMU related expenses. An amendment to the DCA was, therefore, initiated to create an "operating costs"
category, as well as to restructure the project as necessitated by the new conditions in the country. However, the
retrofitting/restructuring process was completed only in mid-1998. At that time, the project was rated as a problem
project and it was not possible to ask the Board to restructure ESRP and at the same time provide retroactive
payment of PMU operating costs for more than three years. As agreed with the Government, the 1998 amendment
provided the financing (US$ 340,000) of the operating costs incurred between January 1, 1998 and August 6, 1998,
the amendment effectiveness date. An amount of US$ 500,000 disbursed from the Special Account to cover the
operating costs of the PMU over the period of 1995-1997 was not included in the amendment.
In 1999 the Government has established a steering committee to pilot the institutional reform of ELECTROGAZ.
The Committee, headed by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural Resources,
comprised representatives from the Ministry of Finance (2), the Ministry of Energy (1), and ELECTROGAZ (2).
While the Govemment delivered on its promises to speed up reforms as agreed in the 1999 action plan and to
improve the project management as a whole, due to severe budget constraints it failed to refund the US$500,000
mentioned above. In 1999, government revenue was only about 10 percent of GDP while the budgetary needs of
rebuilding the shattered economy amounted to 20 percent of GDP The non-replenishment of the Special Account
due to the non-reimbursement of the "ineligible" expenses by the Govemment handicapped project
implementation and delayed some of the activities included in the action plans. In April 2000 an amendment to
DCA was approved to reallocate funds to cover the expenses of US$500,000 already incurred. From 2000 the
Govemment contributed the 5 percent in counterpart funding as required by the DCA. All these actions
substantially improved the progress of project implementation.
Rehabilitation of electricity infrastructure sub-component.
The ICR did not do an assessment of the outcome for rehabilitation/improvement of electricity infrastructure
sub-component, as most of the planned activities were dropped during the 1998 project restructuring, and the
related project proceeds canceled. Only preparatory studies were completed, namely the studies related to the
rehabilitation, extension of distribution and transmission lines in five cities, as well as the feasibility study of a
hydro site on the Nyabarongo river. These studies are planned be used as a basis for the preparation of the next
energy operation planned for FY04.
II.    Urban Waste Management Component: overall rating is unsatisfactory.
Although all the studies were carried out and the equipment was purchased as originally planned, the physical
implementation of the collection and disposal of solid waste was not completed. A total amount of US$ 2.5 million
was spent to procure the required equipment, including eight trucks, 200 containers and a transfer station. The
equipment was delivered but was not efficiently utilized. The transfer station, of a total cost of US$ 0.8 million
was never installed and was subsequently damaged due to a lack of proper maintenance by the City of Kigali. All
the generators, of a total value of US$ 0.2 million, deteriorated as they were not properly stored. More
importantly, the pilot phase was not implemented and the private sector and community involvement, foreseen as
the innovative way of sustaining the process, did not materialize. The main reason for that was a lack of ownership
- 1 1 -



of the program by the PVK. After the design of the pilot was completed and approved, there was a very high
turnover of the city officials who questioned the design during implementation. The most controversial point wis
the relevance of a transfer station to the needs of a small city with a weak technical and managerial capacity. This
precluded the implementation of the designed collection system.
The Bank, supported by the UNDP/Bank Sanitation Group, based in Nairobi, advised the City of Kigali on
different alternatives which would allow PVK to adopt a new scheme while taking advantage of the already
purchased equipment but the Government failed to agree to any of them. Today, the collection of solid waste is
still done by each of the eight districts of the City of Kigali without private sector participation, using the available
equipment inefficiently and providing a poor service to the community. The collection is still subsidized by the
PVK and the recommendations of the cost recovery study, done under the project, were not implemented. The ICR
considers that this project component did not meet its development objective.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR projected an estimated economic rate of return of 19% the for physical investments. The ICR did not
carry out an analysis of the actual rate of return because the originally planned investments were cancelled in
project restructuring.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return is not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project was able to improve to a certain extent the Government's ability to make more effective use of their
human and financial resources through the provision of training and technical assistance. In addition, legal and
technical advisory support in preparation of the contract for the private management operator helped to strengthen
the Ministry's of Energy and ELECTROGAZ's understanding of private sector transactions. The training
sub-component made an institutional contribution by restoring the capacity of producers of the improved stoves
and solar systems maintenance technicians. By the end of the project, some of the Government and
ELECTROGAZ staff acquired skills in project preparation and implementation, and were trained in functioning of
water and electricity regulatory agencies. Additional capacity building will be required, however, to enforce the
new regulatory framework.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The single most significant factor that affected the implementation and outcome of the project was the genocide of
1994. Effects of the war included physical destruction of the infrastructure, death and displacement of population,
and loss of institutional memory and records. In addition, as a result of the genocide, the project was affected by
factors which under normal circumstances would be generally subject to the Government control, such as
implementation capacity. Country circumstances also influenced the external partners of the project.
Co-financiers cancelled their participation in 1995.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The exceptional situation described above hinders the assessment of the factors that were really under the
Government control. However, a number of factors identified can be mentioned.
Slow pace of reforms. It took a long time to achieve consensus on the substance of the sector restructuring and
initiate its implementation. However, the Government showed commitment to economic reform and by the end of
the project the restructuring strategy for ELECTROGAZ was adopted and the implementation started. Although
this process was not completed under the ESRP as planned, it was a positive step toward the achievement of the
project objective of improving the efficiency of the energy sector.
- 12-



Otherfactors. Implementation was delayed throughout the life of the project as a result of frequent changes of
senior staff, delays in selecting and implementing the restructuring strategy for ELECTROGAZ, delays in
provision of counterpart funds and slow administrative procedures (e.g. procurement). These factors caused majors
delays, which, coupled with the interruption introduced by the conflict, required three extensions of the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In summary, the following factors were identified: limited knowledge of the Bank's procedures and fiduciary
compliance.
Familiarty with the Bank's procedures. During the pre-conflict period the implementing agency, the Directorate
of Energy, demonstrated strong capacity in project management, with a very competent Head of Department. The
selection of a private operator for ELECTROGAZ was almost completed and contract negotiations were underway.
Accounting and financial management were satisfactory. In the post-conflict period the Directorate of Energy lost
most of its institutional capacity and was badly understaffed. Eventually, the situation improved following the
establishment of an independent project management unit, comprising a competent project coordinator, an
accountant and two support staff; and training of its staff.
However, starting from 1997, due to a high turnover of project staff, the performance of PMU varied considerably
and the leadership in the project management was provided by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Energy.
This intervention was instrumental for the process of restructuring of ELECTROGAZ.
Fiduciary compliance. Overall, the Bank fiduciary requirements were implemented satisfactorily. On the
procurement side, the establishment of the National Tender Board improved the performance of the project with
respect to procurement. Delays of meeting audit requirements in the last years of the project were fully addressed
after the project closing.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The actual cost of the project was about US$14.9 million (SDR 10.9million) compared to the estimated original
cost of US$26.0 million (SDR1 8.5 million) at appraisal. As a result of the 1998 project restructuring, the total
project cost was reduced from SDR 18.5 million to SDR 13.52 million after the cancellation of the amount of
SDR4.98 million. (See Annex 2). As the physical infrastructure rehabilitation component was not planned to be
carried out, the withdrawal of the co-financiers in 1995 did not affect the implementation of the revised project.
The 1998 Amendment of the DCA acknowledged the inability of the Govemment to provide significant
counterpart funding by increasing the disbursement percentages to 100 percent for all categories, except for the
local expenses (95%). The Amendment also introduced a new category dedicated to operating costs to finance the
PMU expenditures.
The last disbursement took place on June 25, 2002. The undisbursed balance of SDR 2,611,769 in the Credit
account were cancelled. The reason for the underrun is that the contract with the private operator for the
management of ELECTROGAZ was not effected under ESRP and no payments to the operator were made. Actual
disbursements show that 80.7 percent of the total Credit amount was utilized out of which 71 and 29 percent were
for the energy and waste management components respectively.
For the on-lending portion, ELECTROGAZ failed to service its debt obligations vis-a-vis the Government and the
outstanding debt stands at FRW 14 billion. Overall, outstanding short-term and long-term debts of
ELECTROGAZ amount to FRW 52 billion, while the Government debt vis-a-vis ELECTROGAZ (non-payment
for electricity and water) amounts to RWF 22 billion. The on-going financial restructuring study for
ELECTROGAZ, which forms an essential part of the restructuring of the utility, funded under Competitiveness
and Enterprise Development Project (Cr.3499-RW) will provide accurate figures.
- 13 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
In view of the creation of the enabling policy environment and present commitment of the Government to reform
the sector, sustainability of the project is likely. Furthermore, IDA will continue to support this reform program
through the on-going Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project and other sector investment operations
funded by the Government and donors, including IDA.
Government commitment. Notwithstanding the changes in the Government during the life of the project, since the
early 1990s it demonstrated commitment to the development of the energy sector by the private sector
participation. Throughout the life of the project, the policy, legal and regulatory framework evolved in response to
the changes in the country and the sector.
Sector policy. Throughout the life of the project, the Government showed a willingness to adapt and modernize its
sector policy. A major achievement was the adoption by the Cabinet in May 2000 the ELECTROGAZ's
restructuring program, an agreement on a fundamental restructuring and privatization of ELECTROGAZ
consisting of an initial performance-based management contract with a private operator, to be followed by a
concession. Further support, including the selection and partial financing of the private operator, will be provided
under the Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The dialogue regarding further IDA support to the energy sector has been on-going since mid 2000. In December
2001, the Government submitted for IDA consideration a draft project proposal. In February 2002, the
Government expressed and IDA recorded the request for support for an energy and water investment operation.
Currently, the Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project is serving as a bridge financing for the
preparation of the new operation. It will finance payments for the management contract with the selected private
operator during the first two years of the contract and a minimum capital investment required to improve some
technical and commercial aspects of the utility's operations. It is expected that by end of the second year
ELECTROGAZ operations would generate enough cash flow to finance its operating costs. It is also expected that
a sectoral operation, planned for FY04, will follow facilitating the transition to a concession In addition, the
Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project will support the implementation of a multi-sector regulatory
agency. Other donors, such as AfDB and BADEA, are preparing sector investment operations, both in electricity
and water sectors, to accompany the sector reform and the restructuring of ELECTROGAZ, in consultation with
the Government and IDA. Also, EIB is considering financing the development of hydro sites in Rwanda to
increase the country's generation capacity.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is evaluated as satisfactory.
During identification and preparation, the project took into account the Govemment's development priorities and
the Bank's assistance strategy. The design incorporated lessons learned from the previous investment energy
operation and included mechanisms to leverage action including conditions for effectiveness and disbursement.
The technical and financial design, including projections for ELECTROGAZ, were adequate at the time of
appraisal. The project design also included performance indicators for the lease contract for ELECTROGAZ.
However, since several diverse components were included in this project, the bank could have made more effort
during preparation to establish a clear link between the components and the overall development objective.
The Bank showed flexibility in adapting the Credit to the needs of the country in the post-war period by
- 14 -



restructuring and extending the project several times.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was marginally satisfactory. Prior to the genocide, implementation progress
was adequately reported and problems identified were brought to the Borrower's attention along with the proposed
remedies. Throughout the post-conflict implementation, supervision efforts focused on the sector reform,
mobilization of donor funds to finance the immediate rehabilitation needs of the power utility, as well as building
project management capacity of the implementing agencies. The Bank demonstrated flexibility and endurance in
pursuing the sector reform dialogue. This flexibility allowed the restructuring of the project in August 1998
(including the addition of a new objective and components tailored to the post-conflict situation); approval of three
extensions of the project closing; re-allocation of the proceeds among the categories of the credit. More
importantly, this flexibility led to an agreement on one of the most crucial sector reforms undertaken in the
infrastructure sector - the restructuring and privatization strategy for ELECTROGAZ
Throughout the project life, the project progress was monitored through regular supervision missions (see Annex
4). From 1994 to 2001 supervision missions visited Kigali on average twice a year. Supervision teams usually
comprised Energy Sector Specialist, Financial Analyst and Operations Officer. The project had three Task Team
Leaders over the project life. The first change of TTL occurred in 1998 and the second -just before the closing of
the project. Continuity was maintained through the staff of the Rwanda Country Office. During 1999-2000
supervision by the TTL was done only by correspondence and video-conferences. No missions were undertaken by
the TTL which might have affected the dialogue with the Borrower. This effect was compensated by the leadership
provided by the Rwanda Country Manager and the staff of the Resident Mission. An ICR mission was undertaken
by the new TTL in April 2002 after the project closing. The Borrower's assessment of the Bank's supervision
performance is provided in the "Partner Comments" section of this ICR (p. 25 and p. 29).
The reports of the supervision missions reflected their findings, and the aide-m6moire provided a candid
assessment of the situation and advice for improving the performance and correcting the shortcomings of the
project's components. The PSRs were not very informative. Initially, the Implementation Progress and
Development Objective of the project were mostly rated unsatisfactory reflecting the reality on the ground, and the
corrective measures were taken by the Bank and the Borrower to tum this project from a problem project into a
satisfactory one. However, the restructuring of the project should have been carried out much earlier in the project
implementation. Also, it appears that the Bank's advice might have lacked the consistency needed to guide the
Government in the implementation of this complex project.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is assessed as satisfactory. The original design was technically feasible,
consistent with the Government's and the Bank's strategy and measurable. The Bank demonstrated the necessary
flexibility in restructuring the project objectives and scope to respond to the post-conflict realities.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During preparation, the Borrower performed satisfactorily. Preparation was done within the context of the
economic structural adjustment and the development plan for the sector agreed upon with the Bank and the IMF in
1991. The Govemment revised its sector development policy which was included as an annex to the SAR. It also
undertook the upfront measures required to achieve the utility's financial performance and sector reform objectives,
including tariff increases and major staff reductions at ELECTROGAZ
7.5 Government implementation performance.
The implementation performance of the Government is marginally satisfactory. Although there was a continued
commitment to the sector reform and facilitation of private sector participation, due to constant changes of project
counterparts the Government was very slow in adopting the final privatization strategy for ELECTROGAZ which
hindered the project implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
- 15 -



After the events of 1994 the implementation capacity of the implementing agencies was weakened. The
implementing agency performance showed incremental improvement over the life of the project. The
establishment of a well-staffed PMU provided the required institutional capacity and resulted in improved
performance. Capacity problems in ELECTROGAZ delayed the preparation of the Request for Proposals for a
private operator for ELECTROGAZ, but this was overcome by the hiring of a privatization Adviser who helped the
Government in preparing the tender documents. Delays in providing audits to IDA, particularly for
ELECTROGAZ, caused compliance problems that later were resolved by hiring auditors on a three-year basis. At
present, there are no audit reports outstanding. With respect to the urban waste management component, the PVK
performance was not satisfactory. The overall performance of the implementing.agencies is marginally
satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
The Borrower's overall performance is marginally satisfactory. The Government overcame a tragic situation to
resume service provision in the water and electricity sectors while pursuing the sector reform to improve sector
efficiency but project implementation was marked by substantial delays and sometimes compliance problems (e.g.
delays in providing audited financial reports for ELECTROGAZ).
8. Lessons Learned
Instruments need to fit country circumstances. The experience of the ESRP shows that there must be a high
degree of flexibility in adjusting existing projects to a post-conflict environment. The ESRP was restructured to
adapt its scope to the changed implementation capacity and priorities of the Government and, although the success
of outcomes varied, particularly for the new waste management component, such a flexibility was key in achieving
the project objectives.
Response time to the changes in the country environment is key. The project objectives could have been fully
achieved had the Bank reacted to the changes earlier and restructured the project more promptly.
Supervision and monitoring of implementation progress must be proactive. The recently introduced project
implementation reports would be instrumental in ensuring the pro-activity on the part of the Bank and the
Borrower.
Better selectivity. For the post-war Rwanda even the restructured ESRP seemed a bit too complex in terms of
variety of components and the required coordination, especially given the lack of implementing capacity of the
Government agencies.
Sector reform agenda. Although the reform agenda of Rwanda was well advanced before the conflict,
implementing sector reforms takes time and significant coordinated institutional support. It was only after a long
sector dialogue (over 10 years) that the final agreement was reached on the restructuring/privatization strategy for
ELECTROGAZ. In addition, due to the rapid pace of change in the market, the policy, legal and regulatory
framework must be updated regularly. Although the project did include legal and regulatory aspects, and the legal
framework was prepared, it was not implemented due to limited capacity within the Government and its slowness
in reaching agreement on the sector reform strategy.
Government commitment. Strong and consistent Government commitment and ownership of the project,
particularly for projects involving deep sector reforms, is key for achieving project objectives.
Implementation arrangements. Special attention should be paid to implementation arrangements when projects
are being redesigned, particularly in a conflict or post-conflict country. Given the Borrower's capacity, it is
important to provide appropriate support to the implementing agency to ensure proper financial management,
procurement, and overall project management. The establishment of a well-staffed project coordination unit
significantly improved the post-conflict implementation of the ESRP. Procurement was also improved due to the
establishment of the National Tender Board.
- 16 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DU SECTEUR DE L'ENERGIE ET DE GESTION DES
DECHETS URBAINS (PRSE&GDU)
Mai 2002
1.     Introduction
Les institutions du secteur Energie au Rwanda
Les principales sources d'6nergie au Rwanda sont les combustibles ligneux, les sous-produits agncoles et les
produits petroliers importes. Elles constituent 93 % de l'offre nette en besoins energetiques alors que l'electricite, le
methane et la tourbe se partagent le solde.
De part la diversite de 1'energie utilisee, plusieurs entites administratives interviennent dans la gestion du secteur
de l'energie. 11 y a lieu de citer le MINERENA, ELECTROGAZ et UPEGAZ pour l'electricite et le methane, le
MINAGRI et le MINERENA pour la biomasse 6nerg6tique ainsi que le MINICOM pour les produits petroliers
importes.
Pour ce qui est de l'electricite et du gaz methane, le MINERENA exerce les fonctions de definir la politique
gen6rale, 1'elaboration de la reglementation et des normes ainsi que la programmation des investissements et la
recherche de fmancements.
A l'instar des autres pays afrncains sub-sahariens, le secteur electrique au Rwanda est entre les mains d'un
operateur national unique, en situation de monopole public. Cette structure, jusqu'il y a peu, etait en partie fond6e
sur une conception de 1'electricite comme produit strategique et sur l'idee que la population a droit a l'energie
electrique de bas prix. Le r6le d'ELECTROGAZ se linite a la gestion technique des infrastructures electriques et
d'eau ainsi qu'a la gestion des activit6s connexes notamment cominerciales. L'UPEGAZ, quant a elle, s'occupe de
la gestion des installations du Cap Rubona, de la promotion et de l'exploitation du gaz methane du Lac Kivu. Le
MINAGRI a pour mission de definir la politique et la production en rapport avec l'offre de la biomasse alors que le
MINERENA, dans ce domaine, est charg6 de sa gestion rationnelle. En principe, toutes les activites libes au
sous-secteur des produits petroliers telles que la fixation des prix a la pompe ou les taxes y afferentes sont du ressort
du MINICOM.
Diagnostic des institutions du secteur de I'energze
Selon les textes officiels, il existe norrnalement un partage des r6les entre les diff6rentes institutions intervenants
dans le secteur de l'energie. Mais en pratique, on assiste surtout dans les sous-secteurs de l'electricit6 et des
produits p6troliers a des dysfonctionnements et/ou des chevauchements entre les services lies en grande partie a
l'absence d'une politique sectorielle globale appropri6e et A un manque de coordination adequate.
Ces incoherences sont plus prononcees dans le domaine de l'electricite ob l'Etat joue A la fois le role de proprietaire
et celui d'operateur. Ainsi, le MINERENA et ELECTROGAZ se rejettent mutuellement la responsabilite de la
mauvaise gestion de ce sous-secteur.
En effet, d'une part, parmi les points saillants de divergence entre le MINERENA et ELECTROGAZ, on peut
retenir -
o     Le poids direct du Gouvemement sur la marche d'ELECTROGAZ via le Conseil d'Administration et
celui du Conseil des Ministres;
o     L'absence de concertation reelle en matiere de programmation et d'investissements;
o     La realisation d'etudes et travaux souvent non rentables sur fonds propres de I'Etablissement;
- 17 -



o     La fixation des tarifs.
D'autre part, ELECTROGAZ est une societe d'etat a vocation publique qui fonctionne comme tous les services de
l'Administration centrale ou les notions de performances et d'efficacite font d6faut. Les inconvenients majeurs lies
a ce type de societe sont en general:
o     Absence de liberte de manoeuvre pour le statut de son personnel et pour la remuneration de celui-ci;
o     Manque d'efficacite qui est constat6 dans toutes les societes para-etatiques qui conduit a des
performances generalement mediocres;
o     Incapacite d'appliquer une politique de recouvrement ferme;
o     De part son statutjuridique, ELECTROGAZ ne court pas le risque de deposer son bilan meme si la
situation financiere est mauvaise ; donc il n'a pas d'obligation r6elle de reussite;
o     Grande difficulte A changer les esprits et les comportements de la hierarchie qui a souvent tendance a
privilegier les interets personnels sur ceux de la societe;
o     Tentation des echelons superieurs a utiliser les prestations et les services de la societe comme moyens
de trafic d'influence ou de promotion politique.
En ce qui conceme le sous-secteur petrolier, le premier probleme institutionnel qui se pose est de savoir si les
produits petroliers doivent 8tre consideres comme des produits energ6tiques et donc du ressort du MINERENA ou
alors comme des produits de commerce (consommation) et partant du ressort du MINICOM.
N6anmoins meme si les produits petroliers sont pris comme des produits de commerce, il est a noter que le
MINICOM n'est pas apte a suivre 1'6volution du march6 petrolier international et sa capacite de contr6ler le
quantitatif et le qualitatif des produits p6troliers importes reste limit6e.
Le mandat confie naguere a PETRORWANDA de g6rer les depots petroliers de GATSYATA, lesquels dep6ts
construits par le MINITRAPE de l'epoque, a ete repris par une societe privee d'importation de produits petroliers <
SHELL >. 
Ce diagnostic montre bien qu'il est imperatif de mettre en a:uvre des mesures susceptibles de rem6dier a la
situation qui prevaut dans le sous-secteur de l'electricite.
Ces mesures impliquent principalement une reforme institutionnelle pour une clarification des roles des differents
intervenants et une meilleure efficacit6.
Les mesures A appliquer doivent s'appuyer sur un certain nombre de principes directeurs suivants:
o    ELECTROGAZ assure un service public et doit A ce titre repondre a des exigences de qualite dans la
fourniture et les services prestes;
o    Pour assumer pleinement cette vocation, ELECTROGAZ doit etre efficace et performante dans tous les
domaines de la gestion financiere, technique, commerciale et des ressources humaines;
o    Pour cela, ELECTROGAZ doit se degager des contraintes, freins et pesanteurs d'etablissement public
qui ne lui permettent pas de repondre a sa mission.
Les objectifs vises dans la mise en place d'une r6forme institutionnelle concement:
o    La notion d'equilibre global du secteur par les tarifs qui doivent couvrir les charges d'exploitation et !e
service de la dette;
o    La necessite de rechercher, a chaque niveau du secteur, la meilleure efficacite possible.
LE PROJET DE REHABILITATION DU SECTEUR DE L'ENERGIE (PRSE)
Le PRSE constitue un cadre approprie pour la mise en place des mecanismes d'elaborer la reforme institutionnelle
attendue dans le secteur de 1'energie. Le PRSE est une des principales composantes du vaste Programme
- 18 -



d'Ajustement Structurel PAS amorce en 1990 en vue de corriger les des6quilibres 6conomiques causes
essentiellement par la chute brutale des cours du cafe en 1987 suite aux conditions climatiques defavorables qui ont
touche la production agricole.
Les objectifs macro-economiques de base du PAS tels que decrits pour certains dans I'Accord de Credit
N21 13-RW (Projet de reforme des Etablissements Publics) signe le 07 mai 1990 sont le retour accelere a une
position financiere ext6rieure et interieure viable, ainsi que la realisation d'une croissance 6conomique durable
accompagn6e d'un faible taux d'inflation. Ils visent a retablir une croissance economique progressive tout en
assurant une certaine stabilit6 en ce qui conceme le budget et la balance des paiements, a limiter les transferts
directs et indirects accord6s par l'Etat, a desengager l'Etat des entreprises non-strategiques et a ameliorer la
performance operationnelle des Etablissements Publics restants en leur octroyant une plus grande autonomie et en
leur assignant des objectifs clairs.
Dans le contexte du secteur electrique, les priorites de la r6forme devraient s'orienter vers:
o    L'amelioration de l'efficacit6 de la fourniture d'electricite
o    L'am6lioration de l'efficacite de l'utilisation d'electricite
o    Le contr6le de l'impact des activites 6lectriques sur l'environnement
o    La mobilisation des capitaux requis pour l'expansion du secteur
Pour appuyer le Gouvemement rwandais dans ses efforts d'elaborer la politique gen6rale du secteur et d'etablir les
cadres de l6gislation et de regulation, I'Accord de Credit N2456-RW portant creation du PRSE a e  signe le 21
avril 1993 et est entre en vigueur le 21 janvier 1994.
L'achevement du Projet etait initialement prevu pour le 30 juin 1998.
2.      Description des objectifs
L'annexe 2 de cet Accord de Credit reprend en details la description du Projet.
Les objectifs du Projet sont:
o    Creer un environnement administratif et reglementaire favorable;
o    Accroitre l'efficacite des activites d'ELECTROGAZ;
o    Fournir une assistance technique et une action de formation aux institutions sectorielles cles pour
renforcer la capacite de planification des investissements ainsi que celle du Gouvernement a formuler
une politique sectorielle coherente et a suivre les activite sectorielles liees au bois de feu, au gaz
methane, aux produits petroliers et aux possibilit6s d'alimentation en electricite des zones rurales au
moindre cofit; et
o    Remettre en etat la principale infrastructure d'electricite.
Sous reserve des modifications que l'Emprunteur et l'Association pourraient convenir de lui apporter en vue
d'atteindre lesdits objectifs, le Projet est articule sur deux grands axes:
Partie A: Renforcement du Cadre reglementaire et Administratif
Les actions retenues sont en rapport avec:
o     Restructuration d'ELECTROGAZ pour permettre la sous-traitance de ses activites a un operateur
prive, comprenant la preparation des statuts et des responsabilit6s d'ELECTROGAZ et la preparation
des documents d'appel de candidatures pour la selection d'un operateur prive;
o     Application d'une serie de mesures preparatoires pour attirer des operateurs prives qualifies;
o     Introduction de mesures d'incitations pour rationaliser et amrliorer l'efficacite du sous-secteur du
charbon de bois grice a la fourniture du materiel et des services requis pour etablir un programme
financierement autonome, notamment a travers : (i) preparation de la projection de la demande
- 19 -



concemant l'energie basee sur le bois ; (ii) collecte des donnees sur les ressources disponibles;
preparation de la projection de la demande concemant les usagers du bois, autres que mentionne au
paragraphe (i) ci-dessus, preparation et execution des plans de gestion de la consommation de bois
des villages ; et modernisation de la filiere de charbon de bois;
o     Fourniture de fonds pour: i) la preparation d'un manuel avec des specifications techniques
standardisees appropriees comprenant les aspects environnementaux, les arrangements voulus en
mati6re de concessions, la structure tarifaire et les redevances, et un cadre juridique approprie pour
l'exploitation a l'avenir du gaz methane du Lac Kivu ; ii) la mise en place d'un systeme de suivi de la
chimie des gaz dissous dans le lac Kivu et de l'activite volcanique de la region ; iii) la formation de
scientifiques et de techniciens ; iv) I'etablissement d'un systeme d'avertissement et d'un plan
d'evacuation en cas de catastrophe ; et v) 1'execution d'un leve bathym6trique et d'une etude des
effets sur l'environnement des sites du lac identifies
o     Execution d'etudes pour concevoir une strategie pour des systemes solaires individuels, y compris une
etude de marche et des propositions pour des plans de financement innovateurs
o     Renforcement de la capacite du MICOMART pour simplifier la structure des imp6ts et des prix, et
liberaliser les pris des produits petroliers et foumiture de materiel et action de formation destinmes a la
petite unit6 d'analyse et de suivi pour le petrole.
Partie B  Remise en etat et amelioration de la principale infrastructure d'electricite
Sous ce second volet, les actions planifiees sont:
o    Remise en etat et prolongation du reseau de distribution dans les villes de Kigali, Butare, Gisenyi,
Nyabisindu et Ruhengeri;
o    Amelioration des postes du reseau de transport et de repartition y compris le montage de deux cellules
de I IOkV au poste de Mururu l;
o    Remise en etat de la centrale hydroelectrique Mukungwa 1, y compris des travaux sur les structures
hydrauliques de la centrale hydroelectrique de Gisenyi et Gihira;
o    Execution d'etudes de faisabilite des centrales hydroelectrique;
o    Constitution d'une reserve de pieces detachees pour les centrales et les postes et de materiel
d'entretien et d'outils;
o    Renforcement des competences du personnel de l'UCAP et de l'UEP en matiere de gestion et de suivi
de projets, et actions de fornation grace a des bourses accordees aux etudiants.
Un accord de pr8t subsidiaire du PRSE portant retrocession a ELECTROGAZ d'un montant de 13 440 000
USD a et signe le 24 aofut 1993 pour fmancer les parties BI et B5 de l'Accord de Credit.
Apres la guerre d'avril-juillet 1994, ces objectifs ont ete reformules et ils se declinent comme suit:
L'objectif principal du PRSE actualise est d'appuyer le gouvernement rwandais a rehabiliter le secteur de
l'energie, a promouvoir des politiques energetiques rationnelles, d'etablir les bases d'une utilisation efficace
des ressources energetiques du pays et de mimniiser les atteintes a l'environnement et d'ameliorer les
conditions d'assainissement de la Ville de Kigali.
Les objectifs specifiques devant etre atteints par le Projet:
o     La creation d'un environnementjuridique et rbglementaire favorable a l'amelioration du secteur
de l'energie et des conditions d'assainissement de la Ville de Kigali;
o     L'accroissement de l'efficacite des activites d'ELECTROGAZ;
o     La fourniture d'une assistance technique et des actions de formation en appui aux institutions
sectorielles cles pour renforcer la capacit6 de planification en matiere d'mvestissements;
o     La rehabilitation des principales infrastructures electriques
Ainsi, la philosoplue du PRSE repose sur le principe de promouvoir l'accroissement de l'acces de la
-20 -



population A plus d'6nergie et une rationalisation de la gestion du secteur dans son ensemble, afin de
promouvoir le developpement socio-economique, tout en veillant a la sauvegarde de 1'environnement.
Pour atteindre ces objectifs, les actions a initier pour relever les defis du secteur energie visent a:
o Adopter des solutions les moins couiteuses en matiere d'investissement;
o    Etablir une cooperation regionale;
o    Diversifier les sources d'energie accessibles;
o    Utiliser rationnellement les ressources energetiques;
o    Creer et entretenir un environnement propice au secteur prive plus apte a assurer une bonne
qualite de service tout en generant les ressources financieres indispensables a l'essor du secteur;
o    Identifier les besoins energetiques de base pour reorienter la demande vers des sources d'energie
plus accessibles et dont l'impact sur l'environnement est maitrisable
o    Reconstituer et conserver le couvert forestier;
o    Ameliorer l'efficacite de la production d'6lectricite et d'eau;
o    Renforcer les institutions du secteur y compris l'ELECTROGAZ;
o    Mettre en place des tarifs appropri6s pour l'electricite, 1'eau et le gaz; et promouvoir des prix
rationnels pour le bois, le charbon de bois et les produits petroliers tout en reduisant l'impact de
leur utilisation sur 1'environnement.
Pour le volet << Gestion des dechets urbains )), I'assistance de la Banque devrait comprendre
o    Les travaux de decharge sur le site existant et le nouveau site;
o    Les equipements de collecte et les pieces de rechange;
o    Le renforcement des capacites institutionnelles;
o    Les services de consultants.
L'Accord de Credit a connu trois modifications depuis sa signature le 21 avril 1993:
o Sur demande du Gouvernement rwandais, pour toutes les deipenses locales, I 'Association a
accepte, dans sa lettre du 29 juillet 1996, d 'augmenter sa part qui est passee de 90 ti 95 % avec
effet a partir du 19 octobre 1995;
o L 'amendement de I 'Accord de Credit intervenu le 28 septembre 1998 pour inclure la
composante PVK dans le PRSE et creer une nouvelle categorie de depenses ( Frais de
fonctionnement )).
O   En date du 04 mai 2000, la Banque accepte de rendre eligibles les depenses encourues au titre
defrais defonctionnement avec effet retroactif au lerjanvier 1995.
Aprbs ces reajustements, la repartition par categories de depenses a evolue tel que decrit a l'Anne.xe A.
3.      Etat d'execution du Projet par objectifs
Le Projet de Rehabilitation du Secteur de l'Energie (PRSE), comrne tous les autres projets financ6s par la Banque
Mondiale, a suspendu ses activit6s suite a la guerre d'avril-juillet 1994 pour les reprendre le ler aout 1995.
Etant donne que les operations du PPF n'avaient pas fait l'objet d'aucune comptabilisation, la premibre
preoccupation a ete de porter dans les comptes les operations effectuees dans le cadre de la preparation du Projet
conformnment aux dispositions de la Lettre d'agrement PPF N P 701- 0 Rw du 11 octobre 1991.
-21 -



A.      ENERGIE
i) Creation d'un environnement legal et reglementaire favorable
Sous-secteur Electricite
Le programme de reforme institutionnelle du sous-secteur electricite initialement concu devait deboucher sur la
creation d'une Societe Nationale de Patrimoine (SNP) et d'une Societe Privee d'Exploitation (SPE). Les
evenements tragiques d'avril-juillet 1994 se sont produits avant la concretisation de ce programme. A la
reouverture du Projet, la reforme institutionnelle a progresse pour completer les actions entreprises auparavant dans
le cadre du PPF:
*   Etude de redressement d'ELECTROGAZ par SAUR AFRIQUE (1986-Edition provisoire marsl992);
*   Mise a jour des donnees financieres d'ELECTROGAZ par CASTALIA (1995);
*   Etude de reforme institutionnelle des secteurs et restructuration d'ELECTROGAZ par
BOOZ.ALLEN&HAMILTON (1999);
*   Audits comptable et financier annuels par des cabinets d'audit extemes independants.
Sous-secteur produits petrohzers
Dans le souci d'ameliorer le contr6le qualitatif et quantitatif des produits petfoliers, il a ete convenu de transferer la
gestion des entrep6ts publics a une societe privee.
Les actions concretes menees dans ce cadre sont:
* Mise A jour des donnees sur le secteur petrolier par Moctar THLAM;
*   Consultation secteur petrolier par Michel PATOU;
*   Proposition de lois sur le secteur petrolier par l'Association NKURUNZIZA-RWABUKWISI.
Sous-secteur Gaz methane
Il s'agit de definir un cadre institutionnel se rapportant notamment a l'application des directives environnementales
et techniques pour le developpement futur des ressources en gaz methane. Un texte reglementaire decrivant
l'exploitation a ete redige par TECHNITAS. Des etudes sur le developpement et la promotion du gaz methane ont
ete menees par Dr. HASSAN et Dr. TIETZE et un seminaire a ete organise A l'intention des investisseurs potentiels
rwandais du 31 juillet au 1 er aofit 2000 A Kigali.
Agence de r6gulation
Projet de loi portant creation de l'Agence de Regulation Multisectorielle prepare sur les fonds du Projet.
ii) AccroStre l'efficacite des operations d'ELECTROGAZ
Du materiel electrique et un lot de vehicules ont ete achetes A cette fin.
Electrification du Village de Nyarutarama
iii) Renforcer les capacites de planification et de formulation d'une politique sectorielle et suivre les activites
relatives A l'energie
Renforcement des capacites
Seminaires et stages
Bois defeu
Dans le souci de rationaliser I'approvisionnement du charbon de bois en milieu urbain, le Projet devait foumir les
equipements et les services necessaires a l'etablissement d'un programme autofinance. La prise de photos aeriennes
du patrimoine forestier n'a pas ete faite alors que c'etait un prealable important.
-22 -



Quelques activites cependant on e enregistrees:
* La formation des artisans dans la fabrication de foyers am6liores;
*   La formation des techniciens en methodes de carbonisation.
Gaz methane
Le but poursuivi est d'encourager la participation des prives dans 1'exploitation et le developpement du gaz
m6thane.
Des etudes de leves bathymetriques du Lac Kivu ainsi que des analyses chimiques sur des echantillons d'eau de ce
Lac ont e  financees par le Projet.
Energie solaire
11 6tait prevu des etudes pour promouvoir des systemes photovoltaiques autonomes a travers la campagne. Elles
n'ont pas eu lieu, seule une formation a et dispensee en faveur des techniciens en installation, entretien et
maintenance des panneaux solaires.
Electricite
Pour augmenter la production d'energie electrique, une 6tude de faisabilite de l'amenagement hydroelectrique sur
la riviere Nyabarongo a e conduite jusqu'au stade d'APD et de DAO.
Produits petroliers
Le Projet devait appuyer le Ministere du Commerce a mettre en ceuvre les r6formes n6cessaires pour l'etablissement
des prix a la pompe et les taxes.
On retiendra la mise en place d'une cellule de suivi de I'approvisionnement du pays en hydrocarbures ainsi que
l'audit comptable et l'expertise technique des entrep6ts petroliers en vue de leur rehabilitation
iv) Rehabiliter et 6tendre les infrastructures electriques
Seules les etudes d'expertise ont ete men6es:
* Les premi6res par le Groupement BEROCAN-BBA:
*   Etudes d'ingenierie d6taill6e et pr6paration du dossier d'appel d'offres pour la r6habilitation dur reseau de
transport (postes sources et lignes HT);
*   Etudes d'ingeniene d6taillee et preparation du dossier d'appel d'offres pour la r6habihtation et 1'extension des
reseaux electriques des cinq centres de distnbution
*   Les deuxiemes par DECON et RMD-CONSULT:
*   Etudes techniques detaillee et pr6paration du dossier d'appel d'offres pour la rehabilitation des centrales
hydroelectriques Mukungwa, Gihira et Gisenyi;
*   Etudes techniques detaillees et pr6paration du dossier d'appel d'offres pour la modification du poste de
transformation 6 6/30/110 kV de Mururu 1.
11 y a eu aussi I 'expertise des equipements de protection et de teletransmission du reseau HT d'ELECTROGAZ
par LAHMEYER International.
Pr6paration d'un nouveau Projet d'investissement dans les secteurs Eau, Electricite et Gaz: une premiere mouture
du Project Concept Document (PCD) est disponible.
B.      GESTION DES DECHETS URBAINS
Au depart, I'idee etait de creer un projet pilote qui jetterait les bases d'une structure de ramassage et de gestion des
ordures de la capitale par des prives et faciliterait ulterieurement l'amenagement d'une nouvelle decharge.
Sur le plan des etudes, on peut citer la campagne de sensibilisation de la population urbaine confiee a AFRICARE,
I'etude de CARL BRO, de ROUMENS, de LUKMAN, l'organisation des seminaires a Kigali ainsi que les stages a
l'etranger des cadres de la Ville de Kigali.
- 23 -



Le PRSE a egalement fourni a la Ville de Kigali du materiel et des 6quipements de collecte des dechets comprenant
des camions, des bacs a immondices, des compacteurs avec groupes electrogenes, un poste de transfert et des
citemes de vidange.
Les bacs reposent desormais sur des plate-formes en beton construites a travers les sept districts pour faciliter leur
chargement sur les camions roll on/off.
Le recapitulatif des contrats passes par le PRSE depuis 1995 jusqu'a sa cloture est detaill a lA'Annexe B
4.      Problemes majeurs rencontr6s
i) Frais de fonctionnement
L'Accord de Credit N2456-Rw ne prevoyait aucune categorie pour financer les frais de fonctionnement du Bureau
de Coordination. L'Unite de Coordination et d'Administration du Projet qui est en place depuis aofit 1995 a do
faire face a de nombreuses depenses de fonctionnement (sur le plan juridique consider6es ineligibles entre 1995 et
1997) qui etaient imput6es sous la categorie 2-C pour les besoins de la comptabilite. En septembre 1998, la Banque
Mondiale a exige le remboursement des frais qui s'elevaient a 156 437 281 Frw. Pendant toute l'annee 1999, le
PRSE a et6 mis en quarantaine financiere et a connu des difficult6s de tresorerie parce que Washington avait
decid6 de suspendre le reapprovisionnement du Compte special en attendant l'engagement du Gouvemement
rwandais a restituer cet argent.
Le probleme a 6te resolu grice a la signature d'un amendement a I'Accord de credit en date du 04 mai 2000 qui a
rendu admissibles au financement de l'IDA toutes les depenses encourues au titre de frais de fonctionnement avant
le 01 janvier 1998.
ii) Evolution institutionnelle d'ELECTROGAZ et du secteur de l'energie electrique
Dans l'Accord de Credit initial, il 6tait question de dedoubler ELECTROGAZ en deux entites: une soci6t6
Nationale de Patrimoine et une societe Privee d'exploitation li6es par un contrat d'affermage. Apres la guerre,
l'option de privatisation totale d'ELECTROGAZ a ete ecartee, car il n'existait ni investisseurs locaux ayant les
capacites financieres requises pour acqu6rir les immobilisations ni investisseurs etrangers dispos6s a reprendre la
soci&e dans son 6tat de sante febrile. Par la suite, d'autres scenarios ont ete explores : (i) la possibilite de conserver
ELECTROGAZ comme seul operateur dans le secteur; (ii) la scission d'ELECTROGAZ en deux societes separees,
l'une s'occupant des operations d'eau et l'autre des operations d'&Iectricit6 ; (iii) l'introduction d'un contrat de
gestion base sur les performances d'un operateur prive exterieur; et (iv) i'cctroi des actifs du secteur a un operateur
prive. C'est dire que la reforme institutionnelle aura marque toute la vie du Projet. Le desengagement de l'Etat des
secteurs Eau et Electricite est une recherche continuelle menee pour trouver des reponses adequates aux problemes
institutionnels, oprationnels et financiers de ces 2 secteurs (Annexe C). Le Projet qui a cloture le 31 decembre
2001, aura connu trois prorogations pour mener jusqu'au bout le processus de restructuration d'ELECTROGAZ.
iii) Missions de supervision
La demiere mission de supervision du PRSE par son Task Manager remonte z 1998. La conduite du Projet se
faisait par correspondance alors que dans bien de cas, une visite sur le terrain est plus productive que la voie
epistolaire. II faut remarquer en plus que beaucoup de lettres adressees a Washington sont restees sans reponse,
situation imputable peut-8tre a cette meconnaissance de 1'etat des lieux de la part du Chef de Projet.
iv) Defmition des objectifs
Les objectifs du PRSE sont varies et multiples voire ambitieux, d'oui l'implication de plusieurs intervenants:
MINERENA, MINICOM, MINAGRI, MINITERE, ELECTROGAZ, VILLE DE KIGALI. Cette diversite d'acteurs
n'a pas rendu ais6e la coordination des activit6s. Vers la fin de l'annee 1998 (date de cl6ture initiale du Projet), sur
demande du Gouvemement Rwandais, la date de cl6ture a ete prorogee jusqu'au 31 decembre 1999. A cette
occasion, etant donne que le Projet etait limite a deux composantes : la reforme institutionnelle et la gestion des
- 24 -



dechets solides, le Credit a 6t6 ampute d'un montant de 4 980 000 DTS en janvier 1999, originellement destine a
la r6habilitation des infrastructures essentiellement. 11 faudrait conserver des objectifs modestes en raison des
ressources limitees et dimensionner ces objectifs aux moyens potentiellement mobilisables pour leur r6alisation.
v) Etudes non suivies d'execution
Le PRSE compte a son actif toute une serie d'6tudes qui devaient normalement deboucher sur 1'execution physique
des travaux qui devait constituer le second axe prioritaire de la double mission du Projet. Ces 6tudes souvent
cofiteuses, mais non suivies d'effet et qui dornent dans les tiroirs risquent d'Etre d6passees faute de n'avoir pas ete
mises en ceuvre dans un dMlai raisonnable, d'oui cofits additionnels d'actualisation.
vi) Gestion des Dechets Urbains
Le ramassage des dechets urbains a e completement arrhte pendant les ev6nements tragiques de 1994 et il n'a
repris qu'en 1995 avec le concours d'AFRICARE de juillet 1994 jusqu'au 31 mars 1995, celui du PNUD d'avril
jusqu'au 31 octobre 1995 et celui de l'USAID de novembre 1995 jusque fin avril 1996. Pour aider la Prefecture de
la Ville de Kigali a faire face aux nombreux problemes d'assainissement de la capitale, la Banque Mondiale a
accepte en 1997 d'octroyer une assistance technique et financiere a travers le Credit PRSE pour: (1) la mise en
place d'un service capable d'organiser et superviser la collecte des dechets solides, le vidange des fosses septiques
et la gestion de la decharge ; (2) la formation du personnel.
Avec la cloture du PRSE, force est de constater que:
Les travaux d'amelioration du d6potoir de Nyanza et les travaux d'arnmnagement d'une nouvelle decharge n'ont
pas ete r6alises.
La mise en place d'un service efficace de collecte et d'elimination des dechets solides n'a pas eu lieu.
11 6tait egalement prevu de passer un contrat avec des entreprises locales et en mame temps preciser la redevance a
demander aux usagers pour permettre la perennisation du service.
Une canpagne de sensibilisation a Wt6 organisee pour mettre a jour la population urbaine qui sera appelee un jour a
contribuer une fois terminee l'etude de recouvrement de cofits aupres des ben6ficiaires.
11 serait maintenant difficile d'interesser les operateurs prives puisque le mat6riel et les equipements acquis pour la
collecte et le traitement des dechets ne sont pas en etat de marche pour la plupart (poste de transfert, compacteurs,
groupes electrogenes, camions roll on/off). Le poste de transfert n'a jamais ete installe pour tester son
fonctionnement et il est expose aux intemp6ries et aux larcins. Des doutes serieux persistent actuellement sur son
etat de marche et celui de ses accessoires. Les camions roll on /off sont essouffles et doivent 8tre remplac6s. L'appel
d'offres international pour la fourniture devait comporter egalement l'installation et la mise en service des
6quipements livres, cette lacune dans le dossier d'appel d'offres est lourde de cons6quences (Annexe D).
vi) Fonds de contrepartie
Les fonds de contrepartie sont vers6s avec beaucoup de retard entrainant ainsi un cumul d'arrieres qui met des fois
le PRSE dans une situation inconfortable vis-&-vis des tiers.
5.      Lecons tir&es et recommandations
La r6forme institutionnelle des secteurs fait son chemin depuis janvier 1994. Elle devrait prendre corps en
novembre 2002 avec la signature du Contrat de gestion avec un op6rateur prive.
Apres avoir ced6 quelques entreprises publiques au secteur prive, le Gouvernement rwandais, encourag6 par la
Banque Mondiale et le FMI, s'est donc resolu a privatiser la Societe Nationale d'Electricite, ELECTROGAZ.
Attendue par les operateurs economiques, la cession de la societ6 etatique de distribution d'eau et d'electricite
devrait donner au pays les moyens de confirmer sa determination a se desengager progressivement des entreprises
publiques. En se dessaisissant de ses prerogatives et competences, I'Administration perd des sources de revenus
- 25 -



non negligeables. Mais en contrepartie, les secteurs privatises vont beneficier des investis, ements necessaires a leur
remise a niveau. Avec en ligne de mire, I'accroissement qualitatif et quantitatif des facteurs de production
disponibles, le renforcement de la croissance et la reduction de la pauvrete.
L'objectif global, attendu du Contrat de gestion d'ELECTROGAZ, sera d'ameliorer la situation financiere,
technique et operationnelle d'ELECTROGAZ. Les objectifs specifiques etant:
*   Financier: realiser la solvabilite financiere de la Societe. A long terme, les tarifs devraient etre au moins
comparables a ceux pratiques dans les autres soci6tes semblables en Afrique;
* Technique: augmenter la production et ameliorer la fiabilite du reseau de facon a satisfaire la demande;
*   Op6rationne: ameliorer l'efficacite d'ELECTROGAZ dans ses activit6s en reduisant les cofits et en augmentant
la productivite par employe.
En resum6 pour ameliorer la performance du secteur electrique, il faut que:
* La gestion des entreprises publiques d'electricite soit revue de facon a ce que celles-ci soient assujetties aux
normes de fonctionnement des marches financiers;
*   La concurrence soit introduite;
* La regulation du marche electrique puisse reposer sur des principes incitatifs et s'exercer de maniere
transparente;
*   Le secteur prive apporte l'investissement, la technologie et l'expertise pour reformer et developper le secteur de
l'energie electrique.
La biomasse n'a pas eu la place qu'elle mente dans le Projet alors qu'elle compte pour plus de 94% de la
consommation totale d'6nergie. Elle a disparu du plan d'actions du PRSE a partir de 1999 et la formation des
charbonniers et des artisans de foyers ameliores n'a pas et suivie de la vulgarisation des techniques aupres de la
population. Pourtant, la pression sur la for8t est si forte qu'il faut mettre en place un programme de developpement
des produits de substitution. C'est pour repondre a ce souci que le Gouvemement Rwandais a decide de confier le
developpement de nouvelles unites de production d'electricite dont la centrale thermique utilisant le gaz methane
aux Producteurs Independants d'Electricit6 (PIE). La production d'energie electrique est ouverte a la concurrence,
ce qui permet aux operateurs independants de se lancer sur ce creneau. Rien n'emp8che un op6rateur prive de
s'equiper d'une centrale de faible capacite et de distribuer du courant electrique dans une agglomeration qui en est
depourvue, ou de la vendre a une industrie qui ne peut obtenir ce service du fournisseur national. Pour des localites
eloignees du reseau ELECTROGAZ ou defavorisees en energie electrique, il faut imaginer une electrification
decentralisee, diesel, solaire, eolienne, hydraulique ou par valorisation de la biomasse.
Sur le plan institutionnel, une (< agence d'electrification rurale )> pourrait &tre creee pour promouvoir le
developpement de l'electrification rurale en fournissant une assistance technique et financiere aux consommateurs
ou aux promoteurs prives.
La compeitivite des investisseurs au Rwanda dependra de la disponibilite de facteurs de production de qualite et
en quantite suffisante.
6.      Performances de l'emprunteur
Liberalisation de I'&conomie etprivatisation au Rwanda
L'appel d'offres pour le contrat de gestion d'ELECTROGAZ est a placer dans le contexte global des reformes en
cours sous-tendues par un programme de liberalisation de l'economie qui vise a attirer des investisseurs etrangers,
a developper le commerce des biens et services et a creer une economie plus dynamique. Ce programme existe
depuis plusieurs annees et enregistre deja des progres significatifs. Dans un contexte de fort recul de l'aide
publique au developpement, il faut absolument renforcer le partenariat entre secteurs public et prive dans le
developpement des infrastructures comme l'eau, 1'energie, les t6lecommunications, etc.
-26 -



Promotion de l'investissement
Par la loi N14/98 du 18 decembre 1998, il a ete cree l'Office Rwandais pour la Promotion de l'Investissement dont
le mandat est de faciliter le developpement des complexes industriels et les zones de libre-echange d'exportation,
assister les investisseurs, conseiller le Gouvernement sur les politiques et les programmes destines a ameliorer
1'environnement pour la communaute des affaires et instaurer de veritables garanties juridiques.
Privatisation
Au centre du programme economique se trouve la privatisation des etablissements publics. Le Secretariat de
Privatisation s'emploie a superviser l'introduction du secteur prive dans les usines theicoles et dans les services
d'utilit6 publique. Le Secretariat de Privatisation ainsi que le National Tender Board ont mis en place des
procedures transparentes pour conduire tout le processus de passation de marches.
Cadre legal et reglementaire
La loi N 39/2001 du 13/09/2001 portant creation de I'Agence de Regulation des Services d'utilite publique a e
publiee dans le Journal Officiel N 20 paru le 15 octobre 2001. La loi sur les telecommunications existe egalement,
preuve que le Gouvernement est determine a ameliorer les infrastructures nationales pour assurer la croissance
economique. De meme, les lois sectorielles doivent etre preparees pour completer la reforme institutionnelle des
secteurs et la restructuration operationnelle et financiere d'ELECTROGAZ (Annexe E). Les termes de r6f6rence
relatifs a la mise a jour des lois surannees sont disponibles et la procedure de recrutement de consultants peut etre
entamee en vue de disposer d'une reglementation appropnee en la matiere.
Etude de Restructuration Financtere d'ELECTROGAZ
La cl6ture du PRSE arrive au moment oii cette etude allait demarrer. Le Consultant recrute a cet effet devra faire
une analyse des creances d'ELECTROGAZ sur l'Etat, une analyse de l'endettement d'ELECTROGAZ envers
l'Etat et des autres dettes importantes vis-A vis des principaux foumisseurs. A partir de ce rapport diagnostic,
I'expert va proposer a l'Administration un plan de restructuration de la dette et du capital. La decision du
Gouvemement Rwandais (traitement de la dette et des impayes) sera primordiale pour les soumissionnaires au
Contrat de gestion d'ELECTROGAZ dans la preparation de leurs projections financi6res et de leur business plan.
Cette etude sera financee par le < Projet CompktitivitM et Developpement de I'Entreprise >>, connu sous l'acronyme
anglais CEDP.
Pr6paration du Nouveau Projet d'investissement en energie, eau et gaz
Le Project Concept Document (PCD) de ce Projet en gestation est dispomble dans sa version provisoire. Le Projet
envisage devrait comporter quatre composantes:
o Ameliorer et augmenter l'acces de la population aux infrastructures modemes;
o   Mettre en place des infrastructures energetiques en milieu rural;
o   Exploiter et developper le gaz methane;
o Appuyer l'Agence de Regulation des Services d'utilite publique dans le secteur energie.
Le PPF devrait @tre disponible au cours de l'annee 2002 pour supporter certaines depenses necessaires A la
preparation du nouveau Projet d'Investissement que la Banque Mondiale a accepte de financer, maintenant que la
lourde hypotheque sur le programme de rehabilitation des infrastructures est enfin levee.
La longueur des procedures a la Banque Mondiale pourrait @tre un facteur penalisant qui retarderait le lancement
de ce Projet avant la fin de l'annee en cours.
Fonds de contrepartie
La contribution du Gouvemement Rwandais au budget du PRSE (1995-2000) s'eleve a 62 290 419 Frw.
-27 -



7.      Performances de la Banque
Le PRSE a et finance par un Credit IDA N 2456-Rw d'un montant de 13 520 000 DTS en contrepartie duquel le
Gouvemement Rwandais devait supporter les depenses locales a hauteur de 5 % afin de s'assurer que les fonds du
Credit ne sont pas utilises pour payer les taxes notamment. Les decaissements effectu6s se presentent comme suit
(au 30 avril 2002):
Montant decaisse:      10 823 108,100 DTS
Montant non d6caiss6  :        2 696 891,900 DTS
La Banque a r6gulierement envoye a Kigali des missions de supervision conduites par le Task Manager du PRSE
pour evaluer I'etat d'avancement du Projet tandis qu'une del6gation rwandaise s'est rendue i Washington a deux
reprises dans le meme but. A l'issue de chacune de ces missions de supervision, la Banque Mondiale prepare une
aide-memoire qui rassemble les observations, recommandations et le plan d'actions ulterieures pour ameliorer les
resultats techniques et financiers du Projet et la mise en oeuvre d'une facon generale.
Les audits comptable et financier du PRSE d'une part et d'ELECTROGAZ d'autre part ont ete effectues par des
cabinets extemes independants recrutes suivant les directives << selection et emploi de consultants par les
emprunteurs de la Banque Mondiale >>.
La Banque a accord6 3 extensions (1999, 2000 et 2001) et une periode de grice de quatre mois pour donner le
temps de cl6turer tous les dossiers.
Une fois par an, la Banque Mondiale organise a Kigali la revue de la performance du portefeuille (CPPR) . La
derni6re en date s'est tenue a Kigali du 16 au 17 juillet 2001 et ce forum est une occasion de faire le tour des
problemes rencontres dans l'execution des projets.
De meme, le CEPEX organise tous les trois mois une reunion de coordination des projets finances par la Banque
Mondiale pour faire le point ensemble sur le deroulement des activites de chaque projet.
Dans le cadre du contrat conclu avec BOOZ.ALLEN&HAMILTON, la Banque Mondiale s'est reellement
impliqu6e pour combler des lacunes, des carences et des insuffisances de fa9on a produire un dossier de demande
de propositions (RFP) bien ficele qui se faisait desesperement attendre pour les soumissionnaires. Dans ce registre,
la visite a Kigali de Mme Lucy FYE, TTL CEDP, en f6vrier 2002 et celle de Mme Ludmila BUTENKO, TTL
PRSE, en mars 2002 ont permis de mettre la demiere main sur le RFP pour lequel la non-objection de la Banque
est intervenue le 03 mai 2002.
De m8me, le Project Concept Document (PCD), document de base pour le montage du Nouveau Projet
d'investissement dans les secteurs electricite, eau et gaz est en cours de finalisation grace aux efforts conjoints
Banque Mondiale et MINERENA.
Concernant le renforcement des capacites, la Banque a finance la participation des cadres rwandais a des
formations de courte duree et a des seminaires organises localement ou a l'etranger.
Dans le souci de traiter rapidement les demandes de non-objection confrontees a la lourdeur bureaucratique de
Washington D.C., la Mission Residente commence a aller au-dela du simple role de courroie de transmission et a
prendre certaines decisions en vue d'abreger le temps de reponse relativement long quelques fois.
AMin d'augmenter l'efficacite de ses services aupres des principaux partenaires, la Banque Mondiale a fait circuler
un questionnaire qui a ete rempli par les Coordinateurs de Projet. Ces derniers attendent en retour le feed back qui
va contribuer a 1'etablissement des relations de travail de plus en plus fructueuses.
-28 -



8.      Impact du projet (b6neficiaires, environnement, institutionnel)
Le Gouvernement Rwandais est l'Emprunteur, tandis que le MINERENA est responsable de la coordination et de
la supervision des activites en sa qualit6 d'Agence d'execution. L'Unite de Coordination et d'Administration du
Projet (UCAP) s'occupe du suivi quotidien de toutes les activites relevant du PRSE.
Dans son programme initial, le PRSE prevoyait l'extension du reseau de distribution de facon a permettre a la
population surtout en milieu rural d'acceder au courant electrique. Concemant 1'extension du reseau de
distribution de la Ville de Kigali, un nouveau quartier dans la periph6rie du Centre Ville a ete raccorde au reseau
6lectrique et alimente en eau.
L'6nergie domestique consomm6e est sous forme de bois de feu ou de charbon, il en resulte des effets n6gatifs sur
l'environnement provoques par la deforestation.
Les sous-produits agricoles constituent egalement une source importante d'energie pour les besoins menagers. Le
Projet a finance la formation des charbonniers de facon A reduire la surexploitation du bois, a rationaliser et
ameliorer l'efficacite du charbon de bois.
Les etudes de leves bathymetriques du Lac Kivu font etat de reserves en gaz methane exploitables d'un volume de
55 milliards de Nm3, mais l'extraction du gaz methane doit se faire dans des conditions de securite suffisantes et
sans etre un danger pour l'environnement. Les directives environnementales et techniques en vue de l'exploitation
de ce gaz ont &t6 elaborees par l'UPEGAZ.
Dans le cadre de l'etude de faisabilit6 d'une centrale hydroelectrique sur la Nyabarongo, le rapport d'impact
environnemental et socio-economique permet d'estimer le cout d'un plan de compensation.
Sur le plan de la reforme institutionnelle des secteurs, le monopole confer6 a ELECTROGAZ par decret-loi 1876
du 20/04/76 lui a ete retire pour permettre aux professionnels operateurs priv6s exp6riment6s dans les secteurs
d'assumer les op6rations de l'Etablissement
Concemant la r6forme du secteur p6trolier, mdme si le projet de loi portant r6glementation du secteur n'a pas
connu de lendemain, le secteur est completement lib6ralis6 depuis la liquidation de PETRORWANDA et la gestion
des entrepots est graduellement confi6e aux prives.
La Cellule de Suivi de l'Approvisionnement du Pays en Hydrocarbures (CSAPH) , en plus de la collecte des
donn6es a l'origine et en transit, s'est occup6 des travaux de reg6n6ration du stock strat6gique de carburant de
I'Etat entrepos6 A Butare (3 438 501 litres). Pour Aviter la d6t6rioration croissante de ces produits, le MINICOM
s'est charg6 de la location des camions-citemes et de la main-d'ceuvre entre Rwabuye et Gatsata (les deux localites
etant s6par6es de 140 kms) tandis que le PRSE a pris en charge les frais de subsistance de la Cellule qui assurait la
supervision des travaux sur tout le parcours.
Ce stock strat6gique de carburant devrait etre retourn6 aux d6p6ts de Rwabuye sans d6lai, car les d6p6ts de Gatsata
sont utilis6s 6galement par les operateurs pnv6s du secteur p6trolier. Faute de capacit6 suffisante de stockage des
produits petroliers au Rwanda, il serait bon d'approcher la Banque Mondiale pour apporter son appui a un projet de
r6habilitation des entrepots de Bigogwe et Butare dont l'expertise a &t& r6alis6 sur les fonds du PRSE et a la Cellule
qui mene son travail regulierement avec les operateurs priv6s oeuvrant dans le secteur p6trolier pour examiner la
structure des prix des produits p6troliers et tient periodiquement des r6unions avec la Commission
interminist6rielle Alargie a la BNR, a I'ASSIMPER, a la FRSP et A I'ASCORWA.
Pour la Ville de Kigali, les Atudes recommandent que le secteur prive reprenne en mains la collecte et la gestion des
d6chets solides urbains. La Ville de Kigali devrait continuer les camnpagnes de sensibilisation dans les quartiers de
Kigali afin de preparer le terrain psychologique de la population utbaine qui sera appel6e A participer un jour au
paiement du service rendu.
- 29 -



Concemant le renforcement des capacites, plusieurs seminaires ont e  organises a Kigali et les agents de l'Etat ont
pu beneficier egalement de stages de formnation et de perfectionnement a l'exterieur.
SINELAC gere la centrale communautaire de Rusizi 11(27.5 MW) qui appartient au Rwanda, au Burundi et au
Congo (RDC) Conmme la centrale joue un role important dans les trois pays essentiellement au Rwanda et au
Burundi et que l'etude de reforme des societes d'electricite du Rwanda et du Burundi est en cours, il faut que
l'etude de reforme de SINELAC soit egalement menee afm d'avoir une vision globale de l'evolution du secteur
dans la sous-region. Les termes de reference de l'Etude de Restructuration de SINELAC sont disponibles.
Concemant le gaz methane du Lac Kivu, la viabilite technique et financiere du projet d'exploitation et du
developpement de ce gaz est admise par les bailleurs et les investisseurs potentiels. 11 faudrait mettre sur pied un
cadre de concertation interminist6riel qui serait charge d'etudier le cadre juridique devant r6gir le secteur gazier,
d'identifier des priorites a court et a moyen terme et d'evaluer le risque environnemental qui proviendrait du
desequilibre du Lac Kivu suite a une exploitation non contr6lee.
Dans la perspective d'une restructuration financiere d'ELECTROGAZ, il serait possible d'envisager une reduction
du prix du kWh a condition de transferer a l'Etat toute la partie amortissement et dettes envers l'Etat relative aux
investissements non rentables effectues dans le passe. Une telle decision s'impose pour permettre a la Societe de se
refaire une sante financiere et de repartir sur des bases saines.
Par ailleurs une etude tarifaire est a faire pour recommander une structure tarifaire qui puisse assurer la rentabilite
des secteurs eau et electricite, permettre a ELECTROGAZ de satisfaire les objectifs financiers et a la fois de
respecter le contrat passe avec SINELAC.
9.      Durabilite et viabilite des realisations du Projet
Categorie << TRA VA UX))
L'Entrepreneur a realise sur le site de Nyarutarama des travaux de genie civil comprenant essentiellement la
construction de deux cabines MT/BT ainsi que le montage des equipements electriques. 11 appartient a
ELECTROGAZ et aux habitants de ce village d'assurer l'entretien des ouvrages et des installations.
Les plate-formes pour les bacs a dechets sont r6parties dans les 5 districts de la Ville de Kigali aux fins de faciliter
le chargement des bacs sur les camion roll on/off.
Categorie < Fournitures v
Les vehicules, le materiel bureautique et informatique sont des outils de travail, certes. Le materiel roulant s'use,
l'informatique, quant a elle, est en perpetuelle innovation technologique.
Avec la fermeture de cette categorie en 1999, le PRSE n'a pas pu renouveler certains equipements usages.
Quant aux equipements et matenel achet6s pour la collecte des dechets urbains, il est regrettable de constater
qu'une partie n'est pas oprationnelle et se degrade au fil du temps a cause des mauvaises conditions
d'entreposage. C'est une composante qui a ete mal planifiee et executee. II revient a la Ville de Kigali d'elaborer
une strategie pour mettre en valeur les equipements non utilises (Annexe D).
Cat6gorie << Etudes et Services de Consultant))
On ne peut mieux apprecier la valeur des etudes qu'au vu de I'action deployee pour leur concretisation. Les etudes
d'expertise des infrastructures energetiques sont disponibles, mais leur rehabilitation et extension n6cessitent des
fonds supplementaires
Les cadres du Ministere qui ont beneficie d'une fornmation ou de stages devraient continuer a partager les
connaissances acquises avec leurs pairs et a diffuser les leqons apprises.
- 30 -



Categorie < Frais defonctionnement ))
Fin 1998, le MINITRAP d'alors a decide de confier la coordination des projets dont elle avait la tutelle a des
fonctionnaires du Ministere pour que ceux-ci capitalisent de 1'exp6rience dans la conduite des projets de sorte qu'a
la fm de tels projets l'Administration dispose encore des gens outill6s et competents avec des acquis et des capacites
suffisantes pour le suivi.
Pour 1'execution du Projet, l'Unite de Coordination Administrative du PRSE a vu sa composition se reduire au fil
des ann6es pour se retrouver avec une petite equipe dirigee par un coordinateur, cadre du MINERENA, assiste
d'un chef comptable et d'une secretaire.
Les projets de developpement sont incertains. Les echecs sont plus nombreux que les succes.
Il existe un droit A l'erreur A conceder aux acteurs de developpement, mais A ce droit est associe l'obligation
de ne pas repeter ces erreurs.
Annexe A
La repartition par categories a 6volue commne suit:
Retrait de fonds du credit
Credit initial , Montants annules et revises apres r6affectation
Categorie    Description de la   Montant   Montants    Montants du    Montants du    Montants du
Categorie         initial   annules    Credit apres   Credit revises  Credit revises
(000 DTS) (000 DTS)     annulation     (000 DTS)       (000 DTS)
(000 DTS) au  Reaffectation au  R6affectation
31 Decembre    31 Decembre    au 4 mai 2000.
___________________                  ~~~~            ~~98  99
1. Travaux
a)   Partie B. l du      650                     650            650             30
projet                   450                     450            450            450
b)   Autres
2.  Foumitures
a)   Partie B.l du projet  4,550    2,136        2,414           619            200
b)   Partie A.6 du        340                    340             340            114
projet                   2,540                   2,540          2,540          3905
c)   Autres
3.   Service de consultant,
assistance technique et
formation
a)   Partie A.6 du        160
projet                   6090                     160            160            380
b)   Autres                                      6090           7590            7270
4.   Remboursement de         540        114          426            421             421
I'avance pour la
preparation du projet
5.   Frais de fonctionnement  250         _           250            750            750
6.   Non affecte             2,930      2,730         195             0              0
TOTAL                   18,500      4,980       13,520          13 520         13 520
- 31 -



Annexe B
Recapitulatif des contrats
Annexe C
ELECTROGAZ en bref et quelques dates clWs
Le bilan des exercices ecoules est riche d'enseignements. En effef, la reforme institutionnelle des secteurs fait son
chemin depuis janvier 1994. Elle devrait prendre corps en novembre 2002 avec la signature du Contrat de gestion
avec un operateur prive.
Les realites socio-economiques du terrain apres juillet 1994 ne jouaient pas en faveur d'une privatisation immediate
d'ELECTROGAZ alors qu'il fallait en premier lieu remettre en etat l'infrastructure energetique qui venait de patir
des devastations. Les conditions necessaires a sa reussite n'etaient pas en place.
ELECTROGAZ n'arrive plus a satisfaire la demande en electricite, en augmentation de 4% par an, alors que les
ressources gazieres du Lac Kivu inexploitees sont loin d'etre negligeables et qu'il existe des sites identifies sur le
territoire rwandais qui offrent un potentiel hydraulique interessant. Les investissements de rehabilitation et de
renouvellement des equipements cumules sur la periode de 2001 a 2010 sont estim6s a 164 millions de dollars US
pour le secteur de l'electricite et a 50 millions de dollars US pour le secteur de l'eau. Quant a son endettement, il
est chiffrf a 105 millions de dollars US (dette a long terme) et A 30 millions de dollars US (dette a court terme).
L'eau, 1'electricite et les telecommunications sont des facteurs de production qui couitent relativement cher et ne
sont souvent pas disponibles en quantit6 suffisante.
Dans le domaine de l'energie notamment, certaines industries connaissent des pertes financieres, faute
d'approvisionnement suffisant en courant electrique. Par ailleurs, il n'est pas rare que des variations de tension
provoquent des degats sur les materiels connectes sur le secteur. Idem pour l'eau ou les tel6coms (dans une
moindre mesure), secteurs ou de graves lacunes se font egalement sentir.
Le Gouvemement Rwandais doit trouver un equilibre entre ses objectifs socio-economiques et son souci de faire
d'ELECTROGAZ une societe rentable le plus vite possible. Pour que dans un avenir proche un operateur prive
puisse considerer ELECTROGAZ corrme une entite financierement viable, la soci6te doit etre a meme de generer
des recettes semblables a celles que les investisseurs estiment pouvoir obtenir dans d'autres societes sous leur
controle. Outre l'aptitude a generer des benefices, ELECTROGAZ doit etre capable de produire de bons ratios de
tresorerie et de solvabilite, le plus important d'entre eux etant sans doute le taux de couverture de la dette. Parmi
les projets realisables a plus breve echeance, les autorites croient fermement a l'exploitation des reserves de gaz
methane pour alimenter des centrales thermiques.
ELECTROGAZ etait jusqu'il y a peu un monopole public charge de la production, du transport et de la distribution
de 1'electricite, de l'eau et du gaz. Dote de la personnalite morale et de l'autonomie financiere, il a e  crec dans sa
forme actuelle par le decret-loi N18/76 du 20 avril 1976 et est regi par le decret-loi N39/75 relatif aux
Etablissements Publics. II est dirige par un Conseil d'Administration et un Directeur nomme par le President de la
Republique Rwandaise. L'Etablissement est soumis a la tutelle technique du Ministere de l'Energie, de l'Eau et des
Ressources Naturelles et a la tutelle fmanciere du Mmistere des Finances et de la Planification Economique.
Le Gouvemement Rwandais a signe le 13 septembre 1999 un contrat avec BOOZ.ALLEN&HAMILTON,
Consultant charge de d6velopper et d'executer un plan de restructuration fonde sur une participation du secteur
prive dans les operations d'ELECTROGAZ. Au vu des resultats du Rapport de diagnostic technique et a la lumiere
du Business plan (2000-2010) deposes par le Consultant, le Gouvemement Rwandais et la Banque Mondiale se
mettent d'accord en mai 2000 sur un Contrat de gestion d'ELECTROGAZ pendant cinq ans. Ce contrat de gestion
avec un operateur prive s'articule sur deux phases:
- 32 -



Phase I: Preselection
Cette phase a et6 conduite avec succes avec la qualification de six societes:
ESKOM, LAIMEYER, TPF, TATA, MANITOBA&ROCHE et SAUR Intemational. Cette derniere s'est retir6e de
la course pour des raisons propres. Ces soumissionnaires sont restes plonges dans l'attentisme depuis f6vner 2001
jusqu'au 10 mai 2002.
Phase 11: Dossier d'appel d'offres pour le Contrat de gestion
La proc6dure de passation de march6s est un appel d'offres restreint apr6s pr6-qualification. Cette phase a demarr6
avec la conference des soumissionnaires organis6e a Kigali du 26 au 28 fevrier 2001 pour permettre a ces derniers
de se rendre compte des r6alites du terrain. Dans l'entretemps, il y a eu formation d'associations pour les firmes qui
n'etaient specialisees que dans un seul secteur pour etre eligibles a cette deuxieme phase. 11 s'agit de
o   ESKOM/SNC-LAVALIN/UMGENI Water Board;
o   MANITOBA/ROCHFRAND WATER;
o   TATA Power Company Ltd/TCE Consulting Engineers LtdlTATA Iron and Steel Co.Ltd;
o   LAHMEYER IntemationallHamburger Wasserwerke GmbhIVEAG;
o   TPF/SWDE/ALE/SPE.
Ce contrat de gestion doit b6n6ficier d'investissements suffisants pour pouvoir assurer un service comp6titif. Le
secteur de l'energie qui 6tait verrouille par un monopole a e  liberalis6 a la suite de la loi N18/99 du 30/08/1999
portant modification du decret-loi N' 18/76 du 20 avril 1976 qui retire l'exclusivite au fournisseur national
d'electricit6. Le repreneur d'ELECTROGAZ , dans un premier temps, devra rehabiliter 1'existant et proceder a
quelques extensions.
Sur le terrain de la reformne institutionnelle, plusieurs scenarios ont et echafaudes pour determiner celui qul
repondrait le mieux aux realites du pays:
En novembre 1994, il se tient a Patis une table ronde des bailleurs de fonds a l'issue de laquelle un programme
d'urgence qui doit se terminer en decembre 1995 est adopte et en meme temps il est demande aux differents
intervenants d'exaininer les possibilites de relancer le contrat d'affermage.
Du 11 au 14 aoAt 1995, a eu lieu a Kigali un seminaire sur la rehabilitation et le developpement du secteur .
Du 28 au 31 janvier 1996, un seminaire national sur la reforme institutionnelle d'ELECTROGAZ est organise a
Kigali.
En octobre 1996, i1 est propose un contrat de d6Iegation globale de la gestion d'ELECTROGAZ pour une phase
transitoire de 2 a 3 ans.
En juillet 1997, le Gouvemement abandonne I'affermage et adopte une approche en 2 phases 10) I'assistance
operationnelle 20) 1'elaboration d'un cadre reglementaire ouvrant le secteur aux investissements prives.
En juillet 1998, Ic Gouvemement rejette l'assistance op6rationnelle et d6cide d'envisager la scission
d'ELECTROGAZ en trois societes, operer la reforrne au sein de chaque societe et ouvrir le capital aux prives.
En mai 2000, ELECTROGAZ reste une seule entite dont la gestion sera confiee a un operateur prive pour une
p6riode de cinq ans.
Annexe D
Composante << Gestion des Dechets Urbains >
RAPPORT DE VISITE
Le jeudi 21 fevrier 2002 a eu lieu une visite des 6quipements de collecte des dechets urbains achetes dans le cadre
de la composante (< Gestion des Dlchets Urbains )>, du Projet de Rehabilitation du Secteur de l'Energie (PRSE).
L'objet de la visite etait de faire un constat de l'etat de ces equipements, etant donne que certains ne sont pas
encore utilises jusqu'a present et sont stock6s dans le garage de la Ville de Kigali .
- 33 -



Participaient a la visite:
1. Mr RUBERANGEYO Theophile: Directeur de la Planification au MINERENA, Representant du Secretaire
General dudit Ministere empechM
2. Mr KANYAMUHANDA Emmanuel: CEPEX
3. Mr KARANI Alexis: Coordinateur du PRSE
4. Mr AKINGENEYE Bertin : CEPEX
5. Mr GASHUGI Innocent: Fonctionnaire Dirigeant/ Gestion des D6chets Urbains, Ville de Kigali
6. Mr DUSABEMUNGU Aloys: Chef de Garage, Ville de Kigali.
Les participants a la visite ont passe en revue tous les equipements stockes dans le garage et ont pose des
questions pour savoir la cause de cette situation (pourquoi tous les equipements ne sont pas operationnels). Vous
trouverez en annexe du present rapport de visite la liste de tous les equipements achetes dans le cadre du contrat
passe entre la Societe Classica International Ltd et le MINITRAP.
Monsieur GASHUGI Innocent a donne une breve historique de la composante << GDU >>, et explique les raisons qui
ont conduit a la situation existante, a savoir:
o   le poste de transfert n'est pas jusqu'a present installe et se trouve en plein air;
o   tous les bacs achetes ne sont pas tous deploy6s, presque une centaine de ces bacs sont encore stock6s
dans le garage
o   les 4 compacteurs ( 3 compacteurs de 14 m3 et un compacteur de 24 m3) ne sont pas aujourd'hui
utilises.
Monsieur DUSABEMUNGU Aloys a informe les visiteurs que certains equipements qui manquent a I'appel ont
e affectes ailleurs:
o   3 generateurs achet6s pour autonomie des trois compacteurs qui existaient deja ont 6t6 affectes a
d'autres fins : un est utilise par la Ville
de Kigali pour suppleer aux coupures eventuelles d'Electrogaz, le 2eme est utilise par le Departement
des Travaux Publics pour
les travaux de voirie , le troisi6me ete envoye dans la province d'Umutara.
Equipements stockes dans le garage de la Ville de Kigali:
o   3 compacteurs de 14 m3
o   1 compacteur de 24 m3
o   Une centaine bacs a dechets
o   Pont bascule et ses accessoires
o   Poste de transfert avec ses accessoires.
Les participants a la visite ont constate avec regret que certains equipements sont en mauvais etat parce qu'ils ont
et exposes en plein air (poste de transfert, compacteurs) et DUSABEMUNGU a inform6 les participants a la visite
que aussi bien les compacteurs que le poste de transfert n'ont jamais ete mis a marche et il pense qu'ils ne
fonctiomient pas.
Un representant du CEPEX a demande des informations sur le systeme qui avait e planifie pour la gestion de ces
equipements.
Le FD a repondu que ces equipements devaient etre geres par des prives, mais que cela a change suite aux
modifications intervenues dans la planification du systeme de gestion des dechets.
Le poste de transfert n' a pas ete installe parce que, apres une etude faite par Carl Bro Uganda Ltd en 1998, les
autorites ont e informees que ce type de materiel a sa raison d'etre au cas ou la decharge finale se trouve a plus
ou moins 40 km du centre ville, ce qui n'est pas le cas pour la ville de Kigali (la decharge publique de Nyanza se
-34 -



trouve a une quinzaine de kilometres du centre Ville)
Concemant les compacteurs l'inquietude est venue du probleme qu'on eprouvait pour gerer les trois compacteurs
dejA existants, ce qui n'a pas encourag6 les autorites prefectorales d'alors a installer ces equipements.
Les participants a la visite ont conclu que, cette composante a et mal planifi6e et mal executee. Iis ont constate
avec regret que les equipements non utilises sont expos6s aux intemp6ries et peuvent par consequent se deteriorer
encore plus. Ils ont recommande ce qui suit:
o mettre a l'abri les 6quipements non utilise6s, specialement le poste de transfert et les
compacteurs
o elaborer une strategie pour rentabiliser ces equipements encore en stock
La visite qui avait debute a 10 h 30 a ete clotur6e a 12 h 30.
LISTE DES EOUIPEMENTS
DESIGNATION           NOMBRE             ETAT ACTUEL                        OBSERVATIONS
Nissan ECO-200 de 15          6        1 carnions est en bon etat, sont Actuellement ces camions sont ger6s
tonnes                                op6rationnels mais souvent en panne I ar  les  Districts  avec  la
et en presque declasse           decentralisation
Une centaine de ces bacs sont
En bon etat                       d6ployes  dans  les   differents
Bacs a dechets de 10 m3     200                                         quartiers de la ville, les autres sont
en stock
Un poste de transfert avec            Necessite un check up avant son Non encore utilise: voir la note en
ses accessoires               I       utilisation                       bas
Camion NISSAN     CBW         3       Assez bon etat
520 de 26 tonnes avec                                                   Le Fonds d'entretien routier a
containers                                                              accepte de faire la reparation de ce
camion
Necessite un check up avant son Non encore utilise : voir la note en
Compacteurs de 24 m3          1       utilisation                       bas
Necessite un check up avant leux Non encore operationnel
Compacteur de 14 m3          3        utilisation
Citemes de 50001 pour le
vidange pour les fosses      2        En bon etat                       Utilis&es  actuellement pour le
septiques                                                               vidange des fosses septiques
Un    gen6rateur   est   utilisA
Generateurs de 24 KVA                                                   actuellement par la Mairie, les
pour les compacteurs de      3        En bon etat                       deux    autres   sont   utilis6s
14m3 deja existants                                                     ponctuellement par le departement
I_des travaux publics
Remorque a quatre roucs                                                 II est utilis6 dans la collecte des
1       En bon etat                       dechets par un tracteur de la
Mairie
N B Tous ces equipements sont dotes du systeme roll on roll off.
Annexe E
Demarche evolutive et progressive de P'Etat
-35 -



Concemant la reforme institutionnelle des secteurs et la restructuration des secteurs, un comite de pilotage, presid6
par le Secretaire Gen6ral du MINERENA, a ete mis sur pied le 19 mars 1999 pour coordonner le plan d'actions de
cette restructuration. Ce comite a et renforce plus tard et rebaptise Comite de coordination de la restructuration
d'ELECTROGAZ le 21 aouit 2000. II est compose de six membres dont le Ministre de I'Energie, de I'Eau et des
Ressources Naturelles en qualite de President.
L'engagement du Gouvemement Rwandais dans le processus de reforme peut etre illustr6 par trois decisions
importantes prises en 2000 et en 2001.
Par la loi N18/99 du 30/08/1999, I'article sur le monopole dMtenu par ELECTROGAZ a ete abroge.
A l'issue de la seance du Conseil des Ministres du 24 mai 2000, des orientations sont donnees pour accelerer le
processus de restructuration d'ELECTROGAZ:
o Le secteur de 1'electricite et celui de 1'eau restent ensemble, mais separes de celui du gaz;
o La participation du secteur prive doit revetir la forme d'un contrat de gestion avec des indicateurs de
performance;
o Annulation d'une partie de la dette retrocedee a ELECTROGAZ;
o Necessite de creer une agence de regulation multi-sectorielle.
Dans le meme temps, le Gouvemement a mis un point d'honneur a ne pas toucher aux prix de l'eau et de
l'electricite tout au moins la premiere annee du Contrat de gestion d'ELECTROGAZ avec un operateur prive. Le
temps de conduire une etude tarifaire qui va proposer une structure tarifaire a meme de permettre a
ELECTROGAZ de satisfaire les objectifs financiers de l'entreprise et d'honorer les engagements contractuels
envers SINELAC.
En sa s6ance du 16 juillet 1999, le Conseil des Ministres approuve la creation de l'UPEGAZ, Unite pour la
promotion et 1'exploitation du gaz methane du Lac Kivu, dont les attributions precises feront l'objet d'un arret6
mninisteriel.
Le 21 novembre 2001, le Conseil des Ministres a reitere son engagement a poursuivre la strategie de privatisation
d'ELECTROGAZ qui devrait deboucher sur la signature d'un contrat de gestion avec un operateur priv6.
Le 12 decembre 2001, des directives a peu pres similaires sont formulees a 1'endroit de SINELAC.
Avec le concours de la Banque Mondiale, les video-conferences sur le dossier ELECTROGAZ ont ete organisees la
premiere fois le 09 fevrier 2001 et en juin de la meme annee aux fins d'accorder les violons de Kigali et de
Washington D.C. sur les sujets a controverse. Apres avoir arrondi les angles, les deux parties se sont entendues sur
le dossier de demande de propositions (Request for Proposals) et la Banque Mondiale a accorde la non-objection sur
le document que le MINERENA, a son tour, a envoye aux soumissionnaires le 10 mai 2002.
La reussite de ce contrat de gestion suppose qu'au bout de sa mission de cinq ans, l'operateur prive sera parvenu a
faire des secteurs electricite et eau un chanp d'action attrayant pour les investissements etrangers qui constituent la
cle de voute du plan de restructuration d'ELECTROGAZ.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
- 36 -



10. Additional Information
N/A
- 37 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
The project pre-dates the introduction of the logical framework approach and therefore has to be evaluated based
on indicators developed during the 1998 project restructuring process.
VAR    bydt'afIDFY9 V0 EiubdiyfiexdIAFW      VdUVAbYtFW*d FY
Ekm
QJ*yffiq-y              5D0kHz                  5tH f25
Q*Y dwh                  402V                   41OXV                M4OV/34 DV
lUnbscfw ssqla           406mlperym             5*amery             62wx6QV 1101N
______of_ _ _i__Ep _ __ _  8 1 snuc             30nin"prOur         w84Onrrpe
Disr
V,WqmIay                 SUywAoa,Wz bmi         MrE8ITUWnrM1Y"kz    ulazy"md
Mniwcfsniw&uzrKI                                                247OInno(ii
1nh  f   it)~         hn3         f~
9y&idcflNWIftm          Smaisd,e
Amumfys   am  S1ry
q     *up               hP6rE7/ R%                                    P    /%
h"m  adynpi           hTu36%o                hT^3OY              hiqt 317/o
Xn1i&ax~n                OGtaihuwmnPd           Exit                Goo~diUuY
"nmEgcutDaxtm, JmDt      C~uihu   Ruirit       E,bh ( RWhnnK
Pai5           b~~dlsaiftp%w&wdmrn
Awanrgirls"- am  Sphta220                                220         UW       *m*:;
Opn-o                              Pied                                       6 4/oPwrYA,0 M=  /
O3MXdMfV*rMhbwE                    20%m                  40%o                 60%P--1
- 38 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appralsal   ActuatLatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
ENERGY COMPONENT
A. Regulatory and Sector Policy Strengthening
1. histitutional Reform for Electrogaz              5.70           3.93            69
2. Improvements in Charcoal Subsector               4.25           0.10             2
3. TraLiing on Solar Energy                         0.26           0.03            12
4. Bathymetric Study on Lake Kivu                   1.33           1.08             82
5. TA to Petroleum Sector                           0.60           0.69            115
6. Project Coordination Unit                        0.00           0.87
B. Rehabilitationllinprovement of Electricity
Infrastructure
1. Rehab.Extension of Distribution in Five Cities   8.01           0.24             3
2. Improvements to Transmission Network             4.50           1.00             22
3. Rehabilitation of Hydro Power Plants             2.40           1.00            42
4. Reserve Spare Parts and Equipment                2.50           2.95            118
5. TA and Training                                  0.87           1.04            120
6. Feasibility Studies Hydro                        2.00           1.60             80
URBAN WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT                    0.00           4.47
Total Baseline Cost                                32.42          19.00
Physical Contingencies                             3.35           0.00              0
Price Contingencies                                3.18           0.00              0
Total Project Costs            38.95          19.00
Total Financing Required            38.95           19.00
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category     ICB                                    N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other2_____
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         2.42         7.92         10.34
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.86)        (0.00)      (1.86)
2. Goods                     9.37         0.00         3.32          0.00        12.69
(9.37)       (0.00)        (3.32)       (0.00)      (12.69)
3. Services                  0.34         0.00         9.26          1.75        11.35
Consultants and Training    (0.34)        (0.00)       (9.01)       (0.00)      (9.35)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         2.94          1.63        4.57
(0.00)       (0.00)        (2.10)       (0.00)      (2.10)
5. Operating costs           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Refund of PPF
- 39 -



0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       9.71           0.00         17.94         11.30         38.95
(9.71)        (0.00)        (16.29)       (0.00)       (26.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
.~pendlture Category              Procurement Method'
Expenditure~ Categ6y        ICB          NCB               2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCS     ~Other       _____
1. Works                       0.64          0.22          0.00          0.00         0.86
(0.64)        (0. I 9)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.83)
2. Goods                       5.78          0.22          0.00          0.00         6.00
(5.78)        (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.98)
3. Services                    9.75          0.30          0.60          0.00         10.65
Consultants and Training      (9.75)        (0.25)        (0.60)        (0.00)       (10.60)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Operating costs             0.00          0.00          1.01          0.00         1.01
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.01)        (0.00)       (1.01)
6. Refund of PPF               0.00          0.00          0.58          0.00         0.58
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.58)        (0.00)       (0.58)
Total                       16.17         0.74          2.19          0.00         19.10
(16.17)        (0.64)       (2.19)        (0.00)       (19.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
S Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
C-omponent            Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estiuate
]IDA     Govt.     CoF.      IDA       Govt.    CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Energy                  26.00     2.32     10.63     14.54     0.13      0.00    55.9   5.6    0.0
Urban Waste Manangm.    0.00      0.00     0.00      4.46      0.00      0.00    0.0    0.0    0.0
-40 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable due to major changes in Project objectives and cancellation of the main physical investment after
the 1998 project restrucrtuing.
-41 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparaffon
1990                         6   Economist, Power Engineer
Consultants (4)
1991                         1   Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
1992                         5   Power Engineer, Financial
Analyst, Rural Energy
Specialist, Consultants (2),
1993                         3   Power Engineer, Economist,
Consultant
1993                         6   Economist
Power Engineer
Resident Representative
Private Sector Development
Specialist, Financial Specialist
(1)
Supervion
1994                         5   Consultant                          U             U
Power Engineer
Resident Representative
Financial Analyst
Rural Energy Specialist
1995                         3   Energy Economist                    U             U
Financial Analyst
Lead Specialist
1996                         3    Sector Reform Specialist           U             U
Energy Economist
Financial Analyst
1997                         3   Lead Sector Reform Specialist       U             S
Water Specialist
Financial Analyst
1998                         2   Financial Analyst                   S             U
Operations Officer
1999                         3   Operations Officer                  S             S
Energy Economist
Sanitation Specialist
2000                         3    Operations Officer                 S              S
Lead Energy Economist
Sanitation Specialist
2001                         2    Lead Water and Sanitation          S              S
Specialist, Resident
Representative
-42 -



ICR
2002                        3    Operations Officer                S             S
Financial Analyst
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               80.7                      163.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                   70.08                      108.1
Supervision                            195.93                     318.88
ICR                                     18.80                      28.67
Total                                  365.51                     619.55
-43 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
F Sector Policies                      O H  * SU O M   O N   O NA
O Physical                             O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
O Financial                            O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
X Institutional Development            0 H  O SU *M    0 N   0 NA
Environmental                         O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
E Gender                         OH OSU0M ON *NA
OII Other (Please specify)       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
E Public sector management             0 H  O SU * M   0 N   0 NA
L Other (Please specify)               O H  O SU O M   O N   * NA
-44 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
ER Lending                                          OHS OS       OU     OHU
z Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
2 Overall                                           OHS OS       O u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS * s     0 U    0 HU
s Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       0 U    O HU
2 Overall                                           OHS OS       O u    O HU
-45 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report
2. Aide Memoirs and Back-to-Office Reports
3. Project Progress Reports
4. MOPs on the project restructuring
5. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (May 2002)
6. Consultant Studies included in the project
List of Consultant Studies included in the project
I Etude de redressement d'ELECTROGAZ, SAUR-AFRIQUE, March 1992
2. Etude du Plan Directeur d'Electrification du Rwanda a l'horizon 2010 HYDRO-QUEBEC Int, October 1993
3. Etude de rehabilitation du reseau de distribution, HYDRO-QUEBEC Int
4. Mise a jour des informations financieres, operationnelles et commerciales concemant ELECTROGAZ, CASTALIA,
September 1995
5. Organisation et procedures administratives du PRSE, ECUATOR, September 1995
6. Implementation of Institutional Reforms of the Electricity and Water Sectors and Restructuring of ELECTROGAZ,
BOOZ.ALLEN&HAMILTON September 1999
7. Multi-sector utility regulation law, ADAM SMITH INSTITUTE, January 2000
8. Etude de faisabilite de la Centrale hydroelectrique sur la Nyabarongo, SOGREAH
9 Lev6s bathymetriques du Lac Kivu
10 .Rationalisation de l'approvisionnement des villes en charbon de bois, Albert BUTARE
11. Expertise des 6quipements de protection et de teletransmission, LAHMEYER Intemational
12. Expertise et etudes techniques pour la rehabilitation et l'extension des reseaux electriques de 5 centres de
distribution (Lot 4), Groupement BEROCAN et BRETON BANVILLE Associates
13. Etudes pour la remise en etat des lignes haute tension et des postes sources du Reseau Interconnecte (Lot 2),
Groupement BEROCAN et BRETON BANVILLE Associates
14. Expertise et 6tudes pour la rehabilitation des centrales hydroelectriques de Mukungwa, Gihira et Gisenyi (Lot 1),
Groupement DECON&RMD
15. Modification du poste de transformation 6.6/30/110 kV de Mururul (Lot 3)
16 Elaboration des textes r6glementaires du secteur petrolier, Association NKURUNZIZA/RWABUKWISI
17. Audit comptable des entrep6ts publics des produits p6troliers, AUGECO-IDS
18. Expertise technique des entrep6ts publics des produits petroliers, Groupe CHANIMETAL
19. Evaluation du secteur petrolier, Moctar THIAM, September 1995
20. Definition des composantes du volet petrolier a etre inclus dans le PRSE,Michel PATOU, July 1992
21. Etude sur la recuperation des cofits et l'amenagement de la nouvelle d6charge, Carl BRO
22. Etude sur l'implication du secteur prive dans la gestion des dechets solides et la mise en place d'un systeme de
recouvrement des cofits, PARIS/LUKMAN/CISSE, July 1999
23. Preparation d'un plan strategique d'assainissement, Carsten SKOV, April 1999
24. Campagne et sensibilisation de la population, AFRICARE 1997-1998
25. Surveillance des travaux de construction des plate-formes pour bacs a dechets, Jean NDAGIJIMANA
26. Leves topographiques du site de la decharge de Nyanza, GEOTOP, September 2000
27. Preparation d'un plan d'amenagement de la decharge de Nyanza, Jean Bosco BIZIMANA, September 2001
28. Definition des composantes du volet petrolier a etre inclus dans le PRSE, July 1992
29. Elaboration des textes reglementaires devant regir la gestion du gisement et l'exploitation industrielle et
l'exploitation du gaz m6thane du Lac Kivu, TECHNITAS ,November 1993
30. Lake Kivu Gas Development and Promotional Related issues: Technical, economic and financial assessment,
Moiffak HASSAN, June 2000
31. Lake Kivu Gas Development Policy Framework and Promotional Campaign; Policy, contractual and Promotional
issues, Moiffak HASSAN, February 2001
32. Lake Kivu Gas Development and Promotional Related Issues: Environmental issues, Klaus TIETZE, June 2000
33. Audits comptables et financiers du PRSE, FAA et KPMG
34 Audits comptables et financiers d'ELECTROGAZ, COOPERS&LYBRAND, PRICEWATERHOUSE et AG & et
ASSOCIATES DELOITTE & TOUCHE
-46 -






8 ypO:      ick,
MAP.  - INC
.':: !- i '             ?1 *  25103
Tvnje3:      id'



