CREDIT NUMBER 2456 RW
Project Agreement
(Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DE PRODUCTION, DF TRANSPORT ET DE
DISTRIBUTION D'ELECTRICITE, D'laJ ET DE GAZ
Dated                            , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2456 RW
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      A(f     L              , 1993, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION   (the  Association)  and
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DE PRODUCTION, DE TRANSPORT ET DE DISTRIBUTION
D'ELECTRICITE, D'EAU ET DE GAZ (ELECTROGAZ).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Rwandese Republic (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen
million   five   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 18,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ELECTROGAZ
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ, part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to ELECTROGAZ on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ELECTROGAZ, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ELECTROGAZ declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part
B.1 and B.5 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿-2-
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
environmental and public utility practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Part B.1 and B.5 of the
Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and ELECTROGAZ shall
otherwise agree, ELECTROGAZ shall carry out Parts B.1 and B.5 of the
Project in accordance with this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part B.1 and B.5 of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. ELECTROGAZ shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions
relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively in respect of this Agreement and Part B.1 and B.5 of
the Project.
Section 2.04. ELECTROGAZ shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, ELECTROGAZ shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ELECTROGAZ shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part B.1 and B.5 of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   ELECTROGAZ shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part B.1 and B.5 of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ELECTROGAZ of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ELECTROGAZ
Section 3.01. ELECTROGAZ shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ELECTROGAZ shall at all times operate.-and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property and,
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. ELECTROGAZ shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers or make other provision, satisfactory to the
Association, for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. ELECTROGAZ shall no later than August 31, 1993,
and in consultation with the Association, complete the selection of
the professional private operator to operate as SPE, and shall, no
later than November 30, 1993, sign a lease-contract, with SPE under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ELECTROGAZ shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)   ELECTROGAZ shall:
(i)   have  its   records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, staements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal   year  audited,   in   accordance   with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;


﻿-4-
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six (6) months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
all investments including those related to rural electrification
undertaken by ELECTROGAZ shall have an economic rate of return of
not less than ten percent (10%) and all investments above one
million dollars ($1,000,000) shall be made with prior approval by
the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) ELECTROGAZ shall ensure that: (i) except for
small domestic consumers using up to 40 kWh/month, tariff is
maintained at such levels as would provide to the asset holding
company  revenues   to  meet  its   objectives;  (ii)  tariff   is
automatically adjusted to take into account changes in the rate of
exchange between the currency of the Borrower and the dollar; and
(iii) no later than December 31 each year, an annual report on the
adequacy of tariff is prepared and submitted to the Association.
(b)   For the purpose of paragraph     (a) (ii) above, the
modifications in the exchange rate between the currency of the
Borrower and the dollar, the price of electricity purchased with the
Societ6 Internationale d'Electricit6 des Pays des Grands Lacs
(SINELAC) and the salary increase, shall also be considered.
Section 4.04. (a) ELECTROGAZ shall increase average tariffs:
(i) for electricity, by at least 10%, each year, effective October
1, 1993, so as to reach the long run marginal cost (LRMC) in a
phased manner by June 1995; (ii) for water, at least by 8%,
effective October 1, 1993, and by at least 7.5% each year
thereafter, until December 31, 1998.


﻿-5-
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the SNP
shall earn an after tax rate of return on revalued net fixed assets
of 2.48% in 1993, 5.27% in 1994 and 6% in 1995 and thereafter.
(c)   The SNP shall maintain a debt service ratio of at least
1:5 and shall not incur any debt unless forecasts show that the debt
service coverage ratio in all succeeding years is at least 1:5.
(d)   For the purposes of paragraph (b) above, the rate of
return shall be calculated by dividing the net operating income for
ELECTROGAZ for the year in question by one-half of the sum of the
current net revalued fixed assets of ELECTROGAZ in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that year.
(e)   For the purpose of paragraph (c) above:
(i)   the term "debt" means any indebtedness of SNP
maturing by its terms more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (a) under a
loan contract or contract or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payments on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (b) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into; and
(iii)   the term "debt service ratio" means the ratio of
the aggregate amount of repayments (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges, on debt.
Section 4.05. ELECTROGAZ shall take or cause to be taken, no
later than March 31, 1993, all necessary measures for: (i) reducing
to sixty days of sales, after reception of bills, the average age of
receivables; and (ii) ensuring power cuts for customers with arrears
over the target.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ELECTROGAZ thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the  date  on  which   the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date 25 years after the      date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ELECTROGAZ of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice


﻿-7-
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For ELECTROGAZ:
Etablissement Public de Production,
de Transport et de Distribution
d'Electricit&, d'Eau et de Gaz:
Boite Postale 537
Kigali
Rwanda
Cable address:                 Telex:
22591 ELGZ RW
Facsimile:
250 73 802
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ELECTROGAZ, may be taken or executed by the
Director or such other person or persons as the Director shall
designate in writing, and the Director shall furnish to the
Association  sufficient   evidence  of  the   authority  and   the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                            CA-/&L"G
/-C5O Regional Vice President
Africa
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DE PRODUCTION,
DE TRANSPORT ET DE DISTRIBUTION
D'ELECTRICITE, D'EAU ET DE GAZ
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


