Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        C _  O&    ,
Report No. P-3826-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300.8 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND FARAKKA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
May 22, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 18, 1984)
US$1.00         =  Rs 11.093
Rs 1.00         =  US$0.0901
Rs 1 million   =  US$90,100
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 10.8.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BSEB   -   Bihar State Electricity Board
CEA    -   Central Electricity Authority
CWC    -   Central Water Commission
DESU   -   Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking
GOI    -   Government of India
GOWB   -   Government of West Bengal
HVDC   -   High Voltage Direct Current
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB    -   Local Coumpetitive Bidding
LRMC   -   Long Run Marginal Cost
NHPC   -   National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
NTPC   -   National Thermal Power Corporation
OPEC   -   Organization o:f Petroleum Exporting Countries
OSEB   -   Orissa State Electricity Board
PLCC   -   Power Line Carrier Communication
REB    -   Regional Electricity Board
REC    -   Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB    -   State Electricity Board
WBSEB  -   West Bengal State Electricity Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND FARAKKA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:             National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC).
Amount:                  US$300.8 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:                   Repayment over 20 years, including five years' grace,
at the applicable rate of interest; front-end fee of
0.25% of the base loan amount.
OnlendinR Terms:         From the Government of India (GOI) to NTPC, with
repayment over 20 years, including five years'
grace, at the interest rate applicable at the time
for GOI onlending to industrial and commercial
undertakings in the power sector, not less than
13% per annum.
GOI will bear the foreign exchange and interest
rate risks.
Project Description:    The project's main objective is to assist in
meeting the electricity demand in the Eastern
Region of India through the addition of 1,000 MW
of thermal capacity at the Farakka thermal power
plant in West Bengal. The project comprises the
installation of two 500 MW generating units
including boilers, turbogenerator sets, electrical
and mechanical auxiliary equipment, associated
civil works and common services and facilities.
The project includes also the construction of
about 640 km of associated transmission lines.
There are no risks other than those normally
associated with this type of project. All the
major equipment components are manufactured in
India, and there is adequate understanding of and
experience with their installation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: 1/
(US$ millions)
Item                           Local         Foreign         Total
Preliminary Works                             5.7            -              5.7
Civil Works                                  98.2            1.7           99.9
Steam Generators, Turbogenerator
Units and Accessories                 280.]          212.6          492.7
Coal Handling and Transportation
Equipment                              28.8           15.9           44.7
Substations and Other Electrical
Works                                  19.2           45.1           64.3
Transmission Facilities                      98.6           30.6          129.2
Consultancy                                   7.2            0.5            7.7
Engineering and Administration               65.6            -             65.6
Base Cost                               603.4          306.4          909.8
Physical Contingencies                       28.2           15.3           43.5
Price Contingencies                         154.4           83.3          237.7
Total Project Cost                      786.0          405.0        1,191.0
Interest during Construction                 33.4          115.3          148.7
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                    -              0.8            0.8
Total Financing Requirements                819.4          521.1        1,340.5
Financing Plan:                                       (US$ millinns)
Local        Foreign          Total
IBRD Loan                                 -            300.8          300.8
GOI Loans and Equity 2/                 735.4          220.3          955.7
NTPC Internal Resources                  84.0             -            84.0
Total                               819.4          521.1        1,340.5
1/ Includes taxes and duties of about US$69 million.
2   Additional external financing up to an amount of about US$150 million may
become available to finance the purchase of the steam generator and high
pressure piping. In this event, GOI's contribution to project financing
would be reduced accordingly.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ millions)
Bank FY            FY85     FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
Annual             18.0 1/  40.0    63.0    51.0    57.0   36.0   23.0   12.8
Cumulative         18.0     58.0   121.0   172.0   229.0  265.0  288.0  300.8
Rate of Return:    About 13%.
Appraisal Report: No. 4967-IN, dated May 18, 1984.
1/ Including payment of front-end fee of about US$0.8 million.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FOR A SECOND FARAKKA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India for US$300.8 million on standard terms to help finance the construc-
tion of the second stage of development of the Farakka thermal power station in
the Murshidabad district in the State of West Bengal. The project is designed
to provide an additional 1,000 megawatts of electricity generating capacity to
supplement the 600 megawatts provided under the first stage. The proceeds of
the loan will be onlent by the Government to the National Thermal Power
Corporation for twenty years, including five years' grace, at the interest rate
applicable at the time for Government onlending to industrial and commercial
undertakings in the power sector, not less than the current rate of 13% per
annum. Additional financing of up to US$150 million equivalent, in the form of
export credits and official bilateral assistance, may be provided towards the
purchase of the steam generators and associated equipment. The exchange and
interest rate risks will be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY i/
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN) dated April 16, 1984), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project
(No. P-3804-IN), dated May 3, 1984.



-2-
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, whiLe gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. Extiernal assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 197(0s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid dowa a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery wras particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sect:or. This overall improvement in the



-3-
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons.  Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational



--4-
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers.  Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improve-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important
that India maintain the pace of investment int these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenom(enon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity.  Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population livinLg below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investmenl: and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the ba;lance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976177 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively).  This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion.  The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The! improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDE? growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional



-5-
assistance, India has begun to borrow sig-nificant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-84 India contracted
commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and suppliers' credits of over
US$1,020 million. This borrowing has been used for specific development
projects in the public and private sectors (mainly for petroleum exploration
and development, steel, aluminum and shipping). India also reached an agree-
ment with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund
Facility for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 3.9 billion have already been drawn.
The transfer of funds under this arrangement has stemmed the use of foreign
exchange reserves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage
in 1981/82. In January 1984, India announced that it would not utilize the
remaining SDR 1.1 billion because her external accounts have adjusted more
rapidly than was envisaged at the time the arrangement was formulated.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fifth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been



-6-
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios.  However,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been
made. As demonstrated in the last three yearS, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus leaLd-
ing to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for clomestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercLal sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expectea to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels; of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather



-7-
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979180 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 685.2 million, or about 14 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. The expectation of
a measurable decline in the population growth rate has not materialized. The
results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health
and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the
proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respect:ively.  Of these amounlts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank &roup disbursements to India in the currernt fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 million, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year.  Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$30 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$18
million cancelled.  Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equ:ity. A summary statemnent of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex L:E (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecormunications proiects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions, Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The coutinued
active involvement of the Bank Group i.n agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects.  Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India"s efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued programt of investments aimeel at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors, Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of th:is program, which should be supple-
mented bv investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-



-9.-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance to India, both
to offset the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to
sustain the relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the
first four years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures.
India imports relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competi-
tiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign
exchange component tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly
the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports of goods and services and receipts of
current transfers was about 12.9% in 1983/84. Over the next several years this
ratio is projected to rise to about 20% and remain around that level through
1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank
totalled US$3,932 million, of which US$2,100 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-'
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
29.     India's economic growth depends to a large degree on the development
of the power sector; shortages of power have an immediate impact on virtually
all activities of the economy. The development of the sector is therefore
receiving high priority in Central and State Government investment planning,
and the power sector now accounts for the largest share of India's public
investment program (18% of the Sixth Five-Year Plan outlay).
Power Supply and Demand -- India-Wide
30.     In the 1950s and 1960s, India's power generation kept pace with its
demand for power, with both installed capacity and power generation growing
at an average annual rate of about 11%. Since 1970, supply has fallen short
of demand primarily because of delays in commissioning new power projects,
operating and maintenance problems, and severe budget constraints which have
limited investment in the sector. The situati.on has been aggravated by
unstable coal supplies caused by disruptions in coal mining and transport,
and the declining quality of available coal. However, growth in power
generation has been progressively stepped up: during the first half of the
1970s, it averaged only 5% annually; in the second half of the decade,
considerable improvement was made, with growth in both generation and
capacity averaging about 8% annually. The situation has further improved in
1980/81 and 1981/82, with an annual growth of about 8% in power generation
exceeding a 6.5% annual growth rate in installed capacity, indicating better
utilization of existing resources. Nevertheless, power shortages persist irn
many parts of the country, particularly in the Eastern Region. Total
installed generating capacity as of March 1983 was about 38,100 MW (including
non-utility plant), of which about 63% was conventional thermal, 35% hydro,
and 2% nuclear.
31.     Industrial power consumption accounts for about 60% of all
electricity sold, while agricultur,e (mainly irrigation) accounts for 18%,
domestic use 12%, and other uses 10%. As a result of accelerated
agricultural development, power consumption iD. the rural areas, where more
than 80% of India's population livess, has shown marked growth in recent
years. The number of villages which have been electrified, for example,
increased from just over 3,000 in 1950/51 to an estimated 300,000
(representing about 52% of all villages in India) by the end of 1982.
India's Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has projected in its long-term
national power plan that over the period from 1982/83 to 1994/95, generating
capacity will grow at an average annual rate of about 9.5% to a level of
about 106,000 MW, of which about 59,000 1MW (56%) would be thermal, 44,000 MW
(41%) hydro and 3,500 MW (3%) nuclesar. About 15,000 MW of the additional
generating capacity is expected to be added by! 1984/85.



-11-
Power Supply and Demand - Eastern Region
32.     The Eastern Region, in which the proposed project is located,
comprises the States of West Bengal, Orissa and Bihar. The major supply
authorities of the Eastern Region are the State Electricity Boards (SEBs) of
these States, the Damodar Valley Corporation, the Calcutta Electricity Supply
Corporation, and Durgapur Products Limited. The total installed capacity in
the Region as of March 1983 was about 5,800 MW, of which 17% was thermal, and
the remainder hydro. Projects already committed would increase installed
capacity in 1988/89 by 4,360 MW, of which 3,570 MW (82%) is thermal. Further
new projects identified for study total about 5,720 MW, of which 3,655 MW
(64%) is thermal.
33.     Potential unconstrained peak demand in the Eastern Region is expected
to grow by about 8% per annum until 1995. Although installed capacity is
projected to increase at a rate of about 9.5% per annum until 1995,
relatively reliable supply is unlikely to be attained before the early 1990s.
The probability of loss of load, particularly if high forced outage rates
continue, will be unacceptably high throughout the 1980s. Supply
restrictions will have to continue for some time to come, and can only be
eased through the timely implementation of projects and rapid improvement in
plant maintenance. New additions to capacity in the Eastern Region during
the 1980s will be predominantly thermal. New sites available for hydro
development are limited and will take time to develop. However hydro-power
development is planned to increase significantly during the early 1990s, so
that by 1995 it is expected that about 30% of total installed capacity in
the Region will be hydro. The Farakka power plant (2,100 MW) in West Bengal,
together with the future Kahalgaon power plant (2,800 MW) in Bihar and the
Talcher plant (3,000 MW) in Orissa, all of which will be owned by NTPC, will
contribute to a significant increase in thermal power capacity in the Eastern
Region, and would contribute to the elimination of the present power and
energy deficit by the end of the decade.
Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
34.     Since 1954, the Bank Group has made 15 loans to India for power
projects amounting to US$1,389.6 million and 16 credits totalling US$2,266.0
million. Of these amounts, US$2,465.4 million is for generating plant;
US$23.0 million for construction equipment for the Beas Hydroelectric
Project; US$630.7 million for the provision of high-voltage transmission; and
US$536.5 million for the support of rural electrification schemes. Sixteen
projects have been completed: ten for generating plant, the Beas Project,
four for power transmission, and the First Rural Electrification Project.
The First Singrauli (Credit 685-IN of April 1977), Third Trombay
(Loan 1549-IN of June 1978), and Second Rural Electrification (Credit 911-IN
of June 1979) Projects are scheduled to be completed this year. The First
Korba (Credit 793-IN of May 1978) and First Ramagundam (Credit 874-IN and
Loan 1648-IN of February 1979) Thermal Power Projects are in an advanced
stage of implementation. The loan for the Third Rural Electrification
Project (Loan 2165-IN) was approved in June 1982. The loan for the Central
Power Transmission Project (Loan 2283-IN), and the loan and credit for the
Upper Indravati Hydro Project (Loan 2278-IN and Credit 1356-IN), were



-12-
approved in May 1983. The loan and Special Fund credit for the Bodhghat
Hydroelectric Project were approved in May 1984. The Singrauli and Korba
projects are on schedule, but some delays have occurred in the Third Rural
Electrification Project. The first five uniits of the Singrauli project and
the first two units of the Korba project were commissioned on schedule. The
Farakka and Ramagundam projects are proceeding satisfactorily, the first unit
at Ramagundam having been commissioned four months ahead of schedule. Unit 5
at Trombay (the Third Trombay Project) was sy7nchronized in January 1984,
about a year behind schedule.
35.     A project performance audit was conducted in 1980 for the Second
Power Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN). The project was considered to
have been successful in assisting the nine beneficiary SEBs in extending
their transmission systems to help meet their growing power requirements.
Utilization of generating capacity in these SEBs exceeded the appraisal
forecast. Upgrading the financial management practices of the SEBs, which
commenced under this project, is continuiing under subsequent projects. The
audit highlighted the difficulties of adequately supervising this project,
which consisted of many widely-scattered sub-projects, and of effecting
institutional improvements in the absence of a close working relationship
between the Bank Group and the beneficiELry SEBs. With the assumption of
increased responsibilities by the CEA, which have resulted in greater
involvement in SEB operations and project preparation, a considerably more
effective relationship with the SEBs is envisaged.
Sector Institutions
36.     Under the Indian Constitution, the responsibility for supplying power
is shared between the Central Government and the State Governments, and full
agreement between the Center and the States is required for the
implementation of most actions. Various agencies have been established at
the State, Regional and national level to promiote the development of an
integrated power system within the country. The principal agencies are: the
SEBs, the Regional Electricity Boards (REBs), the Central Electricity
Authority, the two Central power corporations--the National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydro-Electric Power Corporation
(NHPC)--and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).
37.     The SEBs were constituted by the State Governments under the
provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, to promote the coordinated
development of generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in
the most efficient and economical manner, and to control and regulate private
licensees and utilities. The States effectively own or control over 90% of
electricity supply facilities. While the SEBs are corporate entities and
enjoy some autonomy in the management of their day-to-day operations, they
are under the control of State Governments in such matters as capital
investment, tariffs, borrowings, pay scales and personnel policies.
38.     The REBs were established for the Northern, Southern, Eastern,
Western and North-Eastern Regions to coordinate the integrated operation of
the Regional power systems and to inprove collaboration among the SEBs. The
REBs, which function mainly in an advisory role, coordinate the operation of



-13-
the Regional system to the maximum benefit of each Region as a whole. They
also coordinate overhaul and maintenance programs, determine generation
schedules and power availability for inter-State transfer, and determine
tariffs for the transfer of power within the Region.
39.     The CEA was constituted in 1950 with responsibility for developing
national power policy and coordinating the activities of the various agencies
involved in electricity supply.  It is responsible for the formulation and
coordination of plans for power development, optimization of investments in
the power sector for the whole country, development of interconnected system
operation, training of personnel, and research and development.  It
accumulates data on operational, economic, f inancial and accounting aspects
of the power industry, both at Center and State levels. It also provides
consulting support to SEBs on technical matters associated with power
projects, and advises them on ffinancial matters.
40.     The NTPC and NHPC were incorporated in 1975 bv GOI to construct, own
and operate large Central power stations, as well as high-voltage power
transmission lines and associated substations. Although the Central
Government's role is becoming increasingly significant in the sector, the
SEBs will continue to play a major role, particularly in hydro-electric
development. The States own most hydro sites and are reluctant to turn over
these sources of comparatively inexpensive energy to the Center. In
addition, NHPC can develop hydro stations only when water rights issues are
resolved.
41.     The REC was constituted in 1969 and registered under the Companies
Act, 1956, as a limited company wholly owned by the Government of India.  Its
primary objective is to promote rural electrification schemes prepared by
SEBs throughout India by functioning as a financial intermediary with
technical expertise, and ensuring the efficient onlending of funds drawn
primarily from GOI. REC coordinates its lending operations with the
activities of other agencies which provide financing for rural development.
Although the amount of REC financial support is small in relation to total
SEB operations, REC today finances more than half of total rural
electrification investment.
Bank Grou9 Strategv in the Power Sector
42.     The objectives of the Bank Group's assistance strategy in the sector
have evolved from a continuing dialogue with the Government concerning the
policies and programs required to deal with the complex problems confronting
the Indian electricity supply industry. They are aimed at supporting the
efforts of the Indian authorities to: (a) eliminate power shortages through
the expansion of generating and transmission capacity, and measures to
improve operation and maintenance of existing plant; (b) introduce long-range
system planning, on a nationwide basis, to assure implementation of
least-cost power development; (c) assist in institution-building by promoting
improvements in sector organization and training; and (d) strengthen the
financial management of the institutions in the sector, particularly the
SEBs.



-14-
43 3    I  line with these objectives, the Bank Group has emphasized the need
for the Government to pursue a program of improvements in five high priority
areas:  (a) the performance of thermal power plants; (b) coordination of
po-;er developMent with the development of otlher sectors; (c) hydro-electric
po wer develo?ment  'kd) the role of the Central sector in the development of
power generation and transmission; and (e) tlie financial objectives and
practices of SEBs. The recommendations of GOI's Committee on Power,
astablished in 1978 to review all aspects of the power sector, and as
ovetained in the comprektensive program prepared by GOI in 1982 for the
implementation of power sector improvements, reflected the priorities
emp'hasized bv the Bankl
44.     Satisfactory progress has been  aade in each of the five areas, as the
following examples 'llustrate, To improve operational efficiency in thermal
plants, teams of specialists, including representatives from CEA, SEBs and
manfactutrers, were established by the Department of Power to visit all power
pla.nts with 100/120 MS anad 200/21C M  thermal generating units in the country
to diagnose technical and operational problems, propose solutions and assign
res-]',nsibilities for theiLr implementation.  3ased upon their investigations,
a detailed program has been developed which inLcludes, for each power plant,
remedial measures and their relevant costs and time-frames for
.imementalion, as well as the expected consequent improvement in plant
performance.. GOl is expected to present to the Bank in the near future a
prop.osei. thermal power plant rehabilitation project for Bank Group financing.
A. pilot program for thermal plant rehablitation in the State of Madhya
Pradesh has already been included as a component in a recently-approved
hyvro-power project. In late 1982:, CEA completed its national long-term
power development plan, responding to the Bank's emphasis on the need for a
nationwide Longrange plan for power developmenit in India. The plan
forec asts growth in power demand and corresponding capacity expansion and
equipment requirements to meet this demand through the year 2000, according
to alternative scenarios based upon projections of India's growth and
perfo-rmance, The plan also provides least-cost generation. expansion programs
and is now being used as the basis for preparation of both five-year plans
.an  annual invest-ment programs for the power sector.  The first Bank Group
suppo:rted hydro-electric project in India (Upper Indravati) was approved in
198:3, a second (Bodhghat) was approved recently and a number of other
DTO7ects are in advanced stages of preparation.  GOI, through NTPC, now has
mnder construction and partly in operation about 10,000 MW of power
generatinga capacitv, which includes, as well as the four large thermal plants
at Sinigrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka beinlg financed by the Bank Group,
two large themnai7 plants (Rihand and Vindhyachal) begun by NTPC in 1982.  The
first Central Power Transmission Project, approved in 1983, is designed to
reinfs.ce the Centrally-owned power transmission grid, and provide the first
stage of integration of the Northern, Western and Southern Regional grids.
The establishment of the REBs, NTPC and NHPG have been important steps
towards ani improved organizational structure of the power sector. NTPC has
decentralized its operations on a regional basis to provide more local and
effective monitoring, control and operation of its power generation and
transm.i  l 1n facilities.  Finally, legislation for amendment of the financial
prov-is:lxons o:t the Electricity (Supply) Act,, 1948, to enable the SEBs to
operate nicmng ccrmercial lines was recently enacted by GOI5 a uniform system



-15--
of commercial accounting for the SEBs is under developmenit; and Sev eFjinanciaI
performance criteria for the SEBs have been introduced,
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.     The project was prepared by NTPC and appraised by a mission Vh-iich
visited India in November/December 1983. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4967-IN, dated May 18, 1984) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in April/May lSS4.
GOI and NTPC were represented by a delegation with Mr. P. Singh of Lhe
Department of Economic Affairs as coordinator. A Supplementary -rojec.t: Data
Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
46.     The primary objective of the project is to assist the Govermaent o-
India in meeting the electricity demand in the Eastern Region of India
through the provision of an additional 1,000 1M  of thermal generating
capacity at the Farakka thermal power plant, located on the west bank of the
Farakka feeder canal in the Murshidabad district of the State of West Bengal.
The Farakka plant is one of six large-scale thermal power plants owned by
the Central Government, and the fourth of a series being supported by the
Bank Group.  The project will supplement the first stage (600 >X) of
development of the Farakka plant, presently under construction, and will
bring its total generating capacity to 1,600 MW, out of a final planned
capacity of 2,100 MW, The first 200 MW unit of the first stage is expected
to be commissioned in January 1985, followed by the two remaining 200 MW
units at six month intervals. The project, which represents the least-cost
alternative for the expansion of the Eastern Regional system, would alleviate
power shortages in India in general and in the Eastern Region in particular,
where severe shortages of capacity have led to widespread rationing an.
overloading of existing thermal units. This situation has resulted i.n
increased operation and maintenance costs, as well as high forced-outage
rates for the existing units in the Region,
47.     The project comprises two generating units each of 5'0 l {, inc uding
boilers, turbogenerator sets, electrical and mechanical equipment, associated
civil works, coal handling and transportation equipment, and co rOu  services
and facilities. The project also includes three 400 kV transm.iss.on lines-
Farakka-Jeerhat (West Bengal), Farakka-Bikarsharif (Bihar), and
Farakka-Durgapur (West Bengal), totalling abo-ut 640 km. These lines will
convey the output from the station into the Eastern Regi&cn transam.ss:.on gride
A third 500 MW unit, required to bring the capacity of the- plant tn i.ts fi4nal
planned level of 2,100 MW, is to be installed under a separTate future
project.  Technical consultancy services for the design and engineering Vora
are also included in the project.
Project Implementation
48.     The project will be implemented over a seven-year period (r-Y$4-FY91)
by NTPC, as part of its ongoing power development progran. This progra-a



-16-
consisted initially of the construction and operation of four centrally-owned
thermal power stations a.nd associated transmission facilities at Singrauli,
Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka,  but was expanded in 1982 to irnclude two
additional large thermal power plants--Vindhyachal (1,260 MW) in Madhya
Pradesh and Rihand (1,000 MW) in Uttar Pradesh--as well as the first
centrally-owned 400 kV power transmission project, designed to link the
Northern, Western and Southern Regions.  Two more thermal plants--Muradnagar
(840 MW) in Uttar Pradesh, and Kahalgaon (840 MW) in Bihar--have also been
identified for inclusion in NTPC's plan.
49.     NTPC has a Board of Directors, which presently consists of eleven
members.  The present Chairman and Managing Director has long operational
experience in power generation and syste:n operation, and has supported the
development of comprehensive systemns for the operation of thermal plant.
NTPC is now in its operational phase following the commissioning of seven
200 3OY units in rapid succession since the beginning of 1982.  The transition
from construction to operation is oeing accomplished efficiently and to
support this process the corporation recently adopted a regional
organrizational structure in wiich the responsibility for the design,
construction and operation of generation and transmission facilities within
the] region has been delegated to regio,al headquarters units,  The
decentralization of NTPC's operatiLons is being carried out in two stages.
The first stage, relating to the appointment and redeployment of staff,
delegalion of aulthority,  and coordination of procedures, information systems
and reporting, has for the most part already been implemented.  The second
stage, involving the actual relocation. of regional persunnel, is expected to
be completed in the near future.,  Recruitment i-s progressing at a
satisfactory pace to meet operational needs as plants are completed and
commercial  operations expard.  NTPC places special importance on the training
of engineers, supervrisors and operating scaff as well as managerial and
administrative staff, and detailed prograns have been developed for the
training of all categories of staff.
50.     NTPC has built up adequate expertise on the engnineering of thermal
power plants equipped with 200 .MN units.  Design activities on three projects
comprising units of 500 MHW are in progress and NTPC has developed a design
capability for stations with units of this type and size. Detailed design
for the proposed project &ill be completed before any of NTPC's 500 MW units
are in operation.  Most of the detailed engineering and design work carried
out for ongoing Bank Group assisted thermal power development is applicable
to the proposed project. However, consultants  ill be engaged as necessary
by NTPC to review engineering designs and assi st NTPC in the design and
preparation of specifications (Section 2,02 of Project Agreement).  A total
of abouit 40 man-months of technical advisory services is expected to be
required for this purpose.
51.     Coal for the Farakka plant will be supplied from the Hurra block of
the Rajmahal coalfields, somne 5t0I hn from the plaut, and will be transported
via a captive "merry-go-round" rail transport system which is under
construction as part of the first stage of the p'Lant's development.  Coal
reserves are estimated at about 500 million tons., of which about 340 million
tons are proven mineral coal,  The coaL production of these mines would be



-17-
sufficient to supply the 2,100 MW Farakka plant for 45 to 50 years, and is
expected to increase from 0.12 million tons per year in 1982/83 to 10.8
million tons per year in 1993/94. Coal requirements for the Farakka plant
would increase from 0.98 million tons per year in 1985/86 to 6.19 million
tons per year in 1993/94. GOI will ensure that adequate coal supplies will
be made available for the efficient operation of the Farakka plant, in
accordance with an agreed implementation program and projected production
schedules for the development of the Rajmahal coal mines (Section 4.02 of
Loan Agreement).
52.     About 2,300 acres of land, including land for the ultimate 2,100 MW
capacity of the main plant, have already been acquired for the project, out
of a total requirement (excluding the coal transportation system) of about
4,500 acres. No problems are anticipated in the acquisition of the remainder
of the land required. Most of the infrastructural facilities have been
provided under the first stage of the Farakka development. Cooling water for
the plant will be provided from the Farakka feeder canal, a perennial canal
running along the eastern boundary of the project. The water flow in the
canal is ample for the requirements of the project, and there are no
international water rights issues. In addition, the Farakka Barrage
Authority has undertaken to supply water at a rate of up to 300 cu.ft/sec for
consumption by the boiler and ash disposal facilities, and the project
township.
53.     The Indian National Committee of Environmental Planning and
Coordination has approved the development of the Farakka plant on
environmental grounds, and NTPC is complying with all environmental quality
standards prescribed by the Committee in the design, construction and
operation of the power plant. Appropriate measures will be taken during the
design of the second stage of the plant to minimize potential adverse
ecological effects. These measures include stack emission control through
the use of electrostatic precipitators, heat dissipation in the cooling water
as it returns to the Farakka feeder canal, through the use of a diffusion
device, and appropriate ash disposal facilities. Occupational safety
standards will be strictly enforced.
Project Costs and Financing
54.     The total cost of the project, including contingencies but excluding
about US$69 million in taxes and duties, is estimated at about US$1,122
million equivalent, of which about US$405 million (36%) represents the
estimated foreign exchange costs. Interest during construction adds about
US$149 million to the financing required. A capitalized front-end fee on
the proposed Bank loan adds approximately a further US$0.8 million
(US$750,125). The principal cost components, net of physical and price
contingencies, taxes and duties, are: boilers, US$152 million;
turbogenerators, US$98 million; ancillary mechanical and electrical
equipment, US$249 million; power station civil works, US$81 million;
buildings and township, US$19 million; coal handling and transportation
equipment, US$41 million; transmission equipment, US$122 million;
engineering, administration and consultancy services, US$73 million; land and
preliminary works, US$6 million. The project cost estimates are based on



-18-
actual prices for similar equipment and works, updated to 1983 levels. Price
contingencies, amounting to about 28% of base cost, are based on expected
inflation rates of 7% for 1983/84 and 1984/85,, 8% for 1985/86 and 1986/87,
and 6% yearly thereafter for local costs, and 7.5% for 1983/84, 7% for
1984/85, and 6% thereafter for foreign costs. Physical contingencies of
about 10% on civil works and 5% on electrical and mechanical equipment have
been allowed, amounting to about 5% of base cost.
55.     The proposed Bank loan of US$300.8 million (including the capitalized
front-end fee of about US$0.8 million) will finance 58% of the total foreign
exchange financing requirement of about UJS$521 million, and would cover about
27% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties. The balance of the
funds required, aggregating about US$1,040 million equivalent (including
about US$220 million in foreign exchange, of which about US$115 million
represents interest during construction), is expected to be provided from
GOI loans (US$328 million), GOI equity (US$628 million), and NTPC's
internally-generated funds (US$84 million).  The project provides good
opportunities for cofinancing and GOI has indicated that it will consider
these.  There is a possibility that external cofinancing will be obtained for
the purchase of the steam generators and high pressure piping, in the form of
a mixed credit of up to US$150 million, including export credits and official
bilateral assistance. In the event that arrangements for such cofinancing
are successfully concluded, GOI's contribution to project financing would be
reduced accordingly.
56.     The proceeds of the proposed loan will be on-lent by GOI to NTPC at
the interest rate applicable at the time i-or Government on-lending to
industrial and commercial undertakings in the power sector, with repayment
over 20 years, including five years grace, under a subsidiary loan agreement
between GOI and NTPC. The interest rate will be not less than the current
interest rate of 13% per annum (Section 3.01(b) of Loan Agreement). This
rate compares with the prevailing commercial bank rate in India of upwards of
13.5%, and a rate of about 14% for such alternative lending institutions as
the Industrial Development Bank and the Industrial Credit Investment
Corporation. Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and NTPC
will be a condition of effectiveness for the loan (Section 6.01(a) of the
Loan Agreement). The average inflation rate is expected not to exceed 8% per
annum over the next five years. GOI's onlending rate to NTPC is therefore
expected to remain positive in real terms. The exchange and interest rate
risks will be borne by the Government of India.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:



-19-
(US$ Millions)
Procurement Method                Total
Project Element                       ICB       LCB       Other    N.A.       Cost
A. Civil Works                                  148.1                         148.1
B. Equipment
Steam Generators                                       210.8              210.8
Turbogenerator Units            143.8                                      143.8
(97.3)                                    (97.3)
Power Cycle I                     6.9                                        6.9
(5.0)                                     (5.0)
Power Cycle II                    9.4                                        9.4
(8.0)                                     (8.0)
Cooling Water Pumps               7.3                                        7.3
(6.0)                                     (6.0)
Coal Handling and
Transportation             21.9        34.7                          56.6
(20.0)                                    (20.0)
High Pressure Piping                                    29.0                29.0
Electro-static Precipitators   19.0                                         19.0
(19.0)                                    (19.0)
Other Mechanical Equipment       37.5       124.3                          161.8
(37.5)                                    (37.5)
Control and Instrumentation    21.1                                         21.1
(15.0)                                    (15.0)
Electrical Works                 51.3        22.7                           74.0
(51.3)                                    (51.3)
Transmission System              40.4       120.5                          160.9
(40.4)                       _            (40.4)
Total Equipment               358.6       302.2      239.8              900.6
(299.5)                                   (299.5)
C. Services
Consulting Services                                     7.7                  7.7
(0.5)               (0.5)
Engineering and
Administration                                           65.6        65.6
Total Services                                        7.7    65.6        73.3
(0.5)               (0.5)
Total                         358.6       450.3      247.5   65.6    1,122.0
(299.5)                (0.5)              (300.0)
Note:  (1) Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by the Bank.
(2) Amounts are net of taxes and duties.



-20-
58.     Contracts for civil works under the project will be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) under procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Procurement of most of the major items of equipment--turbogenerators
(US$144 million), power cycle equipment (US$15 million), cooling water pumps
(US$7 million), control and instrumentation (US$21 million) and electrostatic
precipitators (US$19 million), together with elements of the coal handling
and transportation system (US$22 million), electrical works (US$51 million),
transmission system (US$40 million), and other mechanical equipment (US$38
million)--will be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Other items of equipment--certain items of
coal handling equipment, other mechanical equipment, and miscellaneous
electrical and transmission works--will be procured through LCB under
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement procedures for the steam
generators and high pressure piping will depend upon the source of financing
for these items (para. 55). Foreign suppliers would not be precluded from
participating in LCB. Local manufacturers are expected to be competitive for
all equipment contracts.  Local manufacturers competing under ICB will be
allowed a margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported
goods, or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less.
Consultants for technical assistance wil:L be selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines.  All equipment contracts costing US$3.5 million or more will be
subject to the Bank's prior review. Bidding documents for such equipment
will be prepared by NTPC and agreed upon by the Bank. To facilitate contract
coordination, the invitations to tender f.or major plant contracts will be on
a supply and erect basis.  These could include civil works in certain cases
where these cannot be disassociated from the plant contract, for example,
coal handling, sub-station structure and transmission lines.
59.     The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed over a seven-year period
(FY85-92) and will cover 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods or of the
ex-factory cost of goods manufactured in India,, and 100% of the cost of
technical advisory services by consultants. By the end of the sixth year,
about 92% of the proceeds of the loan will have been disbursed.
NTPC Finances
60.     NTPC is currently in the eighth year of an investment program in
which it expects to construct and commiss:ion eight large-scale thermal power
stations with an aggregate generating capacity of 12,240 MW (three 2,100 MW
stations at Ramagundam in Andhra Pradesh, Korba in Madhya Pradesh, and
Farakka in West Bengal; stations of 2,000 MW at Singrauli, 1,000 MW at
Rihand, and 840 MW at Muradnagar in Uttar Pradesh; 1,260 MW at Vindhyachal in
Madhya Pradesh; and 840 MW at Kahalgaon in Bihar).  A further 3,000 MW of
generating capacity is included in the program for projects not yet
identified. In addition, about 10,700 km of 400 kV transmission lines,
including about 640 km under the proposed project, are slated for
construction. The Government's investment in this development has undergone
continuous review during the past five years. As a result, the original
investment program, which was designed to provide generating capacity of
7,300 MW and about 6,000 km of 400 kV transmission lines, has been extended
in stages by eight years through 1995/96 and increased by about US$17,010
million to about US$20,806 million equivalent. NTPC's current program



-21-
reflects an increase of about US$6,069 million equivalent (41%) over the
revised program established during appraisal of the Central Power
Transmission Project (Loan 2283-IN) in October 1982. The increase is
accounted for by the additions to generating capacity and transmission
facilities--the plants at Muradnagar and Kahalgaon and additional provision
for unidentified new projects--as well as expected increases in equipment
costs, costs incurred as a result of rescheduling of generating plant
commissioning dates, and offsetting decreases in certain costs associated
with some of the existing plants. Finance for the increased investment
program will come from NTPC's increased internal resources accruing during
the extended construction program, and from GQI in the form of long-term
loans and equity share capital.
61.     NTPC commenced commercial operations in 1982 shortly after its first
200 MW generating unit at Singrauli was commissioned. Since then six
additional 200 MW units have been commissioned--three more at Singrauli, two
at Korba, and one at Ramagundam. NTPC's earnings have been projected on the
assumption that it will supply bulk power to SEBs at regional tariff levels
sufficient to achieve by 1990/91 a minimum rate of return of 9.5% on its
total net fixed assets in operation. This was agreed under previous lending
operations and is to be achieved by the year in which NTPC's sales in respect
of the four Bank Group-financed plants at Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and
Farakka are forecast to reach about 75% of their projected total output. The
plants at Vindhyachal and Rihand, presently under construction, and the
proposed Muradnagar and Kahalgaon plants, which were recently included in
NTPC's investment program, are all due to be commissioned by the end of
1990/91. NTPC's annual rate of return will terd to increase progressively
as new units are stabilized, but will be adversely affected when large new
investments are undertaken. Accordingly, NTPC will set tariffs at the level
required to achieve in 1990/91, and maintain through 1994/95, a rate of
return of not less than 9.5% on average net fixed assets in operation, and to
maintain in the intervening fiscal years 1984/85 to 1989/90 an annual rate of
return of not less than 7.0%. In 1995/96 and thereafter, taking into account
the uncertainties associated with NTPC's future investment program, NTPC will
set tariffs so as to earn annual rates of return at levels sufficient to
ensure its financial viability. Since the Government does not wish to use
asset revaluation to determine a realistic basis for estimating returns to
capital, it has been agreed instead that, based on current projections, a
rate of return of about 15% in 1995/96 would be required (Section 4.03 of
Project Agreement). In view of the high initial capital investment in the
early stages of NTPC's power development and the time involved in
commissioning and stabilizing generating capacity, this approach to tariff
setting is appropriate.
62.     Under previous loans and credits, GOI and NTPC agreed to sell the
output of power from NTPC's power plants to the SEBs under contracts
satisfactory to the Bank Group. Separate contracts have been signed by NTPC
with each of the SEBs of the Northern and Western Regions, the Delhi
Electricity Supply Undertaking, and the Electricity Department of the Union
Territory of Goa, in respect of sales of electricity from the Singrauli
(Northern Region) and Korba (Western Region) plants. Sales of electricity
from the Ramagundam plant (Southern Region) began recently, and NTPC is
selling power from the Ramagundam station at a provisional rate with the
understanding that such sales would be retroactively adjusted to the bulk



-22-
sale contract prices when final agreement has been reached. The provisional
rate is in excess of the 1984/85 rate projected by NTPC for its Ramagundam
station to enable it to meet its financial performance targets. Sales from
the Farakka plant (Eastern Regiorn) are expected to begin in January 1985. In
view of the desirability of concluding contracts for the Southern and Eastern
Regions as quickly as possible, execution of electricity supply contracts for
the sales of electricity from the Ramagundam and Farakka stations between
NTPC and the beneficiary SEBs has been made a condition of effectiveness for
the loan (Sections 3.04 of Project Agreement and 6.01(b) of Loan Agreement).
63.     The electricity supply contracts that: have been concluded between
NTPC and each of the beneficiary SEBs are interim contracts only, since they
are valid only until March 31, 1985 (Northern Region) and March 31, 1986
(Western Region). Moreover, certain additional provisions--contract renewal,
tariff revision, capacity charge, and NTPC's return on equity--need to be
included. GOI and NTPC propose in due course to replace these interim
contracts with either individual or regional supply contracts (one for each
Region) which will provide uniforn terms and conditions for the sale of
electricity by NTPC for all SEBs within a Region. Accordingly, GOI and NTPC
wi11 provide to the Bank, by March 31, 1986, revised electricity supply
contracts incorporating the necessary additional provisions, in respect of
the SEBs of the Northern, Western, Southern and Eastern Regions. In the
interim, the terms of the existing contracts will continue to apply
(Section 3.04 of Project Agreement).
64.     Projected annual revenues for each year from 1983/84 through 1995/96
are based on a forecast 1990/91 average bulk supply price for power of 50.39
paise (US cents 4.6) per kWh, excluding Clentral excise duty.  This price
level is 1.37 paise (US cents 0.1) higher than the 49.02 paise (US cents 4.5)
per kWh rate calculated at the last: revision of the investment program for
the appraisal of the Central Power Transmission Project. About three
quarters of the price increase is attributable to increases in base fuel
costs, operations and maintenance costs, and depreciation, while the
remainder, coupled with a 0.97 paise per kWh reduction in fuel surcharge,
represents contribution towards debt service and net income. Minor losses
in the early years of operation of the Southern Region are anticipated, but
these Pre acceptable as part of NTPC's development program. Operating costs
of the transmission facilities provided by the proposed project will be
recovered through the regional tariffs as a separate tariff component. NTPC
became profitable in 1982/83 with actual net piofits of Rs 46 million (US$4.3
million) and, following the rapid commissioning of plant from 1983/84,
earnings will rise progressively to about Rs 13,626 million (US$1,262
million) with a 14.7% rate of return in 1995/96 when all generating units are
operating at full capacity.
65.     The overall investment cost for the years 1976/77 through 1995/96 is
estimated to amount to about US$20,806 million equivalent. The Government
will provide funds, through a combination of long-term loans and equity
capital, in amounts such that NTPC's debt/equity ratio will not exceed 50/50.
NTPC's borrowing is limited by the Companies Act, 1956 to an amount equal to
the aggregate of paid-up share capital and 'free reserves', i.e., those not
set apart for specific purposes, except with the consent of the Corporation



-23
in general meeting. As in the case of NTPC's previous Bank Group-assisted
power projects, NTPC will infoim the Bank of any proposal to modify existing
limitations on its borrowing powers prior to its consideration by NTPC's
shareholders.
66.     NTPC's capitalization as of March 31, 1983, the end of the financial
year in which NTPC began to earn revenues, was about US$1,393 million,
divided between GOI loans (including the onlending of Bank Group finance)
and equity capital in a ratio of 21/79. In March 1993, after the completion
of the proposed project, total capitalization will be about US$18,298
million, with a debt/equity ratio of 31/69. No external debt or equity
financing is forecast after 1992/93 for the current investment program, and
this, combined with a significant increase in internal cash generation, will
reduce the debt/equity ratio to 25/75 by March 1995. NTPC's issued share
capital will be raised progressively during this period from a level of about
US$1,093 million at the end of 1982/83 to US$10,192 million by the end of
1994/95.
Financial Performance of SEBs
67.     The Bank Group, under recent lending operations, has sought to
improve the financial performance of the SEBs by requiring them to achieve an
annual contribution to investment of 20% of their average annual capital
expenditures, and to gradually reduce the amounts of subsidy received from
their State Governments in respect of their rural electrification losses to a
level approximating 10% of their electricity sales. While some SEBs are
experiencing difficulties in achieving these requirements, the SEBs of the
Eastern Region (Orissa, Bihar and West Bengal), the recipients of the Farakka
power output, are expected to meet them from 1983/84 onwards. Financial
projections for these SEBs, prepared by consultants for NTPC, indicate that
the 20% contribution to investment should be either maintained or exceeded,
and that the State Government subsidies will be progressively reduced to a
level below 10% of the SEBs' electricity sales.
Proiect Justification and Risks
68.     The proposed project is justified as a component of the desirable
power capacity expansion program for the Eastern Region. Compared to the
only practical alternative--the construction of two 500 MW units at a pithead
thermal plant at Talcher, in Orissa--the proposed program has the lowest
present-value cost at any discount rate within a reasonable range, The
project therefore constitutes part of the least-cost expansion plan for the
Region. The economic rate of return for the program is about 13%, based upon
using average retail tariffs and quantifiable consumers' surplus as benefit
proxies for consumers' willingness to pay for continuoua power supply. The
actual rate of return is likely to be considerably higher if full consumers'
and producers' surplus, or industrial, agricultural and commercial output
made possible by the alleviation of power shortages are taken into account.
69.     Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. The principal risk would be the possibility of
delay in the scheduled commissioning of plant, particularly aince the project



represents a segment of an overall development program comprised of over
12,000 MW of generating plant and about 10,700 km of 400 kV transmission
lines. However, seven of the 200 MW units included in the program have been
commissioned to date on or ahead of schedule. The assistance of consultants
experienced in similar power plant facilities will minimize problems in the
engineering and design stage.  The progress of project implementation will be
closely monitored during engineering and. construction, and careful attention
will be paid, in the placing of contracts, to the capability of manufacturers
to meet the delivery schedules. The fact thai: a number of 500 MW units will
have been in operation in India for some years before the project is
commissioned will reduce the possibility of operational difficulties during
start-up and the early stages of operation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS MAD AUTHORITY
70.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and NTPC, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to t:he Executive Directors separately.
71.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and
NTPC, and execution of bulk supply contracts for sales of electricity from
NTPC's Ramagundam and Farakka power plants, have been made additional
conditions of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement).
72.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATI0N
73.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 22, 1984



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                     REFERENCE GROLPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) _
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
//b  RECENT  /b            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960-        197      ESTIMATE-           ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                 3287.6        3287.6       3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                          1760.7        1780.5       1811.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        70.0        100.0         260.0                276.7                      1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          114.0        165.0        210.0                398.4                        792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPLTLATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0    690183.0
U8RAN POPLILATION (Z OF TOTAL)           18.0         19.8         23.7                 21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 1001.3
STATIONARY POPFLATION (MILL)                                   1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2140
POPULIATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          132.3         166.6        205.3                161.7                        260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               247.0        307.5         372.7                363.1                       1696.5
POPFLATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                             40.9          42.7         39.7                 36.6                         39.4
15-64 YRS                             54.5          54.2         57.2                 59.2                         57.2
65 AND ABOVE                           4.6           3.1          3.0                  4.2                          3.3
POPFLATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                   1.8          2.1          2.1                  1.9                          2.3
URBAN                                  2.5           3.3          3.7                  4.0                          3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            43.7          40.0         35.4                 29.3                         31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             21.8         16.7         13.3                 10.9                          9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.9          2.7          2.4                  2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             64.0       3782.0        6826.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..         12.0         23.0                 48.1                         46.6
.FOOD AND NUTRITION
lINDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                            98.0        102.0        107.0                111.4                        125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          96.0          90.0         87.0                 98.1                        114.2
PROTEINS (GEAMS PER DAY)              54.0          50.0         47.0                 56.7                         57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PFULSE           17.0          15.0         13.0/c               13.9                         14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DRATH RATE              26.2         20.7         17.0                 12.2                           7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            43.2         48.1          52.2                 59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          165.0         139.0        121.2                 96.6                         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                    ..         17.0         33.0/d               32.9                         37.1
URBAN                                    ..         60.0         83.0/d               70.8                         54.8
RURAL                                    *           6.0         20.07                22.2                         26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         18.0         20.0/e               18.1                         41.4
URBAN                                    . .        85.0         87.0/e               72.7                         47.5
RURAL                                    * *         1.0          2.o07W               4.7                         33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              4850.0       4890.0        3640.0/f             3506.0                       7771.9
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON              10980.0/g    8300.0         5380.0/f             4797.9                       2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               2180.0        1650.0       1310.0/d             1100.6                       1047.2
URBAN                                    ..           ..        370.071              298.4                        651.1
RURAL                                    ..           ..      10410.071             5941.6                       2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..            ..                  ..                         27.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   5.2          5.6          5.2/e                  .
URBAN                                   5.2          5.6          4.87..
RURAL                                   5.2          5.6          5.37.                  .
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  2.6           2.8           .
URBAN                                   2.6          2.8
RURAL                                   2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           .            .
_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _    _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _    _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _    _ _ -_ _ -_ _   _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOSN                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb          /b  RECENT                LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1 960-      19170- ESTBATb/u       _   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJU.STED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      61.1         72.0         76.0/f              96.1                        101.2
MALE                      80.0         90.0         90.077              107.8                       106.0
FEIALE                    40.0         56.0         61.0T7              82.9                         97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      20.0         26.0         28.0/f              30.2                         44.9
MALE                      30.0         36.0         37.077               37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                    10.0         15.0         18.0/f              22.2                         44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              2.8          1.0          0.7/e                2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               46.0         41.0         43.0/f              34.4                         32.7
SECONDARY                             16.0         21.0           . .               18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                 27.8         33.4         36.0                 53.5                        72.9
CONStMFTIOl
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.6          1.1          1.3/f                1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND POP             4.9         21.5         44.4                96.8                        113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.0          0.0          1.7                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                10.6         16.2         L9.7                16.4                         54.0
CINEMA A3'UAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          3.2          4.1          3.7/e                3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          185951.0    219194,0    271179.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      30.7         32.5         31.8                33.3                         33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 74.0         74.0         69.3                69.0                         50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0          11.0        13.2                 15.8                         19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8         40.0         39.3                42.5                         38.6
MALE                                  57.0         52.4         51.9                54.4                         50.7
FEMALE                                27.3        26.9          25.9                29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1          1.1                  1.0                         1.1
INCaIE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 57 OF HOUSEHOLDS              26.7         26.3/h       22.2/e              16.5                         22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7        48.977        49.47T              43.5                         48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1          6.77Th       7. oR                6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 407 OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6         17.2/h       I6.27e               17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GiOUB?S
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        132.0               133.9                        194.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..        114.0               111.6                        155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                       178.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                      164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (E)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         40.3                43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   ..           .0.7                           51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
_ /a  The group averages for each indicator are populationrweighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1991.
/c  1977; /d 1976; ne 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1964-65.
May 1983



ANNX I
Page 3 of 5
lECFZId71NO OF SOCIAL INDIlCATORS
Notes tAl1though ohs data ar  dronfo  suetgeeal   loged the Iot'                      thn  eeo   ndrlLai,i  should  lso b oe  the, t roy sap not be irta-ncionaIIy
toopere bl. beocuss of the lath ofstnadsd efiiosndccpsuedb different countr _                              ie  in oletn tnda.    edtao,nntees,ueflo
descr ibe trIers of sagnitude ,             ,.Loe hteds, and  atr se  terti  talon diffteo..cet. hot ...nert tn
The refereto  groups are (I) the  as               S-oygop of the aubj-o  country and  .l. a  ..untr..group utt too-han higher  ur             Intone than tthe t-un1y 0rt-y of ebt
.obj  jon.. touty (eac..Pt for  'P11gb mose   oil topnreet."  group sheen~ "eiddle I-cte  horth odnI_oadNdi   funt,'' s1t   e:hotoc,h  ..oau. .fsrtertoI-Iloa
afieitiesl.  Intereueo  gnpdt               a th  eenge  ee  cp tsior otighted oitihoet L   s               o  ro   cloo  ndconot  abet tauiyo   h   tttnir  in
grop h.cdn   o    tha  idioeor."  %oino  the _osrg  of coat_trie  hen              . Led itot-   dep-nd. on tn. 000   bil ity of note and Is no-antrt .tu  inn Isutoh
-oerI'ad On raiatngcoeage  of one Ioicatnr to o-oh-r  Thes  -eoogSe  are only ..aefo1 incspnn   the o-1u- of on  lcd oa--  n t  le  oson-g tOt  coutry and
AREu Irh.oos..od sqn.k)                                                                                 ouano pe   hoec-oPulotloc.  dcf"dcd ey  -uor of pr-e Leoc
T.  1-  oTel-I fo  urea  -opriseop  land oree and inland  atrc; 196he,                              phyatecon  I.u f e tre  a set-a  school at u..t. ty  e
1970 and 1980 deta.                                                                               rolen   o   onn  Person.11- PpltIndouldtbyuerofpetl
nreloa-fetsaeof agi-olnuca  ara  nd eenrnl   orpt ooently                                     om ndfoogrd e-c  tuer,  -oi ..eenI r--t, pro-i-o1 rnecod
unbar, adi,oo,) dlotded by the Or repettoe Cutto"oputltd
1960, 1970, and 1991 dtt.h.tloeon   htca. detnblkshtr-cn  proonding                                                                                                  I.I prn aly eutodi
ear  ar  cot, -n.ue             .ur     .. n ...lc  hbeoroor,~ Ioeud   heatltho
ENIERG  CONLLlfPTi9pON      otn-Ino   paen   ctctote   cnce                                               o  e    ron   o PERrCAonAontbLy enCte  by. a. physio P"IPbt  ya1e1 ta
l96t, 1970, and  980dna                                                                                urbanho-peoYo-Iclud                 bea   rocpolono   opei,adcm
yPOPLAIOfN MD  eVITAL eTATISToICSycotrdholo                                                                                        r _ neHuon  ee-porertPe"
foo   nooIon, nid- eon     ..u..dc   -i fo July 1;1960h, 1970, ond 1981eoatn nLbono   e    ooold .,utcre  fcno cn_oo  dshr
den,brethopleltOldic Byed on- ho-1                                                                                                               tcdn
Ura   ooonton (pecen  of total -_  boleo  ohacon tono   P0 palannn
osongcouetoriet;  ISLe,  1970,ond 1981 dIn ncdnocoteetl(cNCoc   otothoteeluhcodu
-oco   ...o  -i-r   196ee19                 dtoyno                                                        I  heu-ehef ceentoe of- a~ onuSfIdoduljtcson  lleqon
roc,clation in rsar 1010 - hlret eplte        jceo  urn hoed en9bOl                          oc.erA I    om. traht.    hof   dco   ogrsyo  ernch   nlddl
tnesosalotrcpeenp-          brh   ocnot_occenryteoofnrorspree    ttlocot   adurlccperoonce_
eataten Pe_t   n   notle  noehtce                      oftlnene   771 u_lttn lh    . hl rrtecn-lp                    Nllirt1     n l-de ne-prsardtercer               II
peas.   hepac     --oraOc  erelu    rateh cIte.. hoes thn_lee                             ,ettt-dar
a rutuorli tottIontn  f-il oyn_ tor  tohend-nl  utte                                          --el Oyro  dlscd-eoleat   ode
P......      eretcort    ecloeo-fneyoucter-r ehn coiculyl-euleEouOo-loeroteoloaondnrc
poooto   On  0   o ion  o   o -nse efho preitno edhaaterCntnr  uoe  -oio                                                         ce,;ccao   tee Indo  otele- ood   cl
Lstlcanh  th  populueto  cc the yer 2002, andthu rotc o  unolore- e -rom  hoti-  ad-ot     fee euyrte  legheoprnryeeten   o
frcitnhocorcuaoort   lnl.rernlooeheterctceteonnrlloneonIIclr    pccn
Peartta conerporlooer e  reche  -  he  oreohenont Leoepn Oce  eon   erlo  0c hbo  r aeto  ho  ff cLu --ceeuo-
peploLo  eoc  Ll  h  raced.ho odnr  r~el    sOu, tIrto  Oooy -Cepoodonohertonooad
rooleocIooe                                                                                  o  occr  ootroo"'P              le  eae  nopeoo    rcny e-rc co
Per  n.  o.    ae-roe  peuialtt  per  dqoAceuleer(C   enro   rprodoceo,ootoa,o  tahroaer    to lc    o
poplolor;   980  070,ant 191-  efu -ytttrchecu-t  -  rlary2n   onot ar--nolo-dnes   no -lo  e
per    h'plale   for185-he  1  I6-70  aed1, 17-tOh,   -eeetc   reIn
Pooa-theohoe(ercelaha-etetroerud font                                                              oeltetcrtotoroedtttacoflesotcooecdrlno
Yepesln   fels-h,18-O,eaFt-l                                                                             cocnod   f  oa  ad-od   o pey-lot to  aud    _pec  ad00r
Orodnoirhhoeetontheototl hoeeo - lTeenrnh-        o---enutehtd
year  oyaltton   1980  1970  Mn   hleao                                                    ttOcPt
lcudtlethoorchcso-rtu                      dohsycootdhsnyorPotorlr(rreedocautt tootoor oeyuatr
poelcic;lOs,000,an  10;daa.cro  ceoolonoon-t,    ocee                                                                                            ........ecco  ,Oorocr
Inr   trdctcOt-nrd    o  e   fdugeroto    lOha   nelcr   ctto
Forenrsclrepod-otlooperIod If  -h etnoccpoeooetoot                                                 ao   oeon   preece    ooatn      atpno   onet    o
fotl e   att  ucly  leyeroc        -oo   oto -        ee,110 o-todonOleeorlpetcyrceoado---ltlr   telAn   r
1991,                                                    ttenoeer-erot'cretn  otuenroenond  or rcoro.herroeloeru,leceyradte
Fa-r--      9t-oocet  healtetenlhnul.9rnfeoccunnooloretdeeeroe   yonenoheopcrao-esn
of  lro-eotro   decoe  adrrucp  co  efroe.eol   uthopcCt__ oenet.n_oeltho__ uceone
todnoof reo redoceet ce  Captaotan-l -     S- htne   Fto   ect,l  t_cdt_t>                                                          ottcoeoT-             0     tteuoe
anottn ftor 190i0 feed       70 cosdu dt.ynd19n7c0dttrdee                                           oty8t1typono    ot  octtuaek
red  edI d       oaede   yariot .Cnndhcus00hrytnrusod  to.red   ntnunoho   octonn  eu-Ood   n  h  nctr
b,ord   o   a Oc 9l7e0to   p-doccpe19           oghtI t    e-t   07.ae O
lo-c                                                                                          LedyPc 0 -d  - -   t .p-Ob_r 
day . cosutloinoppl cnen Raden--          set_   prduction                                            ...ro   Itoc .ct ... e I tt  0cc    hefttlttencu
eacorse  endchoge  te..     roch.  Ore napp-- ro -do, tud  ottoe   O`d,ore,d                                 dd toe    ooa           91duo
qeclteoednfe                                                       IWOsue,nlnoundtrholt  r-ueerottholonneootoreegottluotr
Frorore    nr  eoandb   uhcod  hpetooculnoore   ost                                                    eoelcoCpeon I-LCr  oc o-rI0,fot--,hctn   c
ofetitty  o -   ao o   od   tetnrotenttlt_yrnoo, op  ndot,l_                                                     o  eeetP'o,"' tOhe   ore,I h,    Ot  e  tht  eo
000 and tarAteerthento  of   mooarried woreno)oo   OpnectenoeItutoIrreO1-Lcrfretnnlg                                                               orttr,rcratrn
anF    ooredbe1    et-C    00go   90  ae                                                                ecotoct  t..0or  c   e  t.. pecnueortetlhr  ec; c
Oercopooaauchioeleretntotteaonrtndaet-rroeoettentecreroor  eartct     1(7  oeelentoeto.E
netpleetdnue. tecpiefoetoooo    eec                                                         oeojy)ccP1ccnt-ea,so,tOrerrru,yeoo
bOftOra a .tnid oo    Arep;t   -I- g.10toe 08 d---ora.toceeoho on                                                  hrr  tot-Po  tooroyttn tcrIroe  nen                           r,
decacnortenoplf -rn   n-o  one- penePneeotpy(o5                            (o                         ee  ett  oht  ore
d_ochieed     pl bo    hoI   c   osnt   rn  ctdy   etc               f,etlf
Ison.                                                                           tnce-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- d  1-oT'T    I....he  ...
ch-tot-1          eahorprtcno(-ltadoht rcheant                                                       ocnene    0,ccIonleo   eore   cnl    oenohtcec
oohlroh;   080, t970oedI0Sl  Ooto.                                                     uheelo  hetcrcrdppett-d1ale,t e7en-d981derh- cotr
t-he  o  y bpe   ten-  urPeter,  ond nclt  fel,hteehracet  o  un___rone
caoenopppltnlufnercund7otoc   saennc9               roedo                                   nnse,Olo            ronct   teee -elt-terapca.eho   ceerca
plnn ytetd  acrtonocner                     _ centehreoootru0n ae                              octelcceto          -e  fnentoetuec.ttrjfancue   ooap
soteryclec    -erone-e-fectoopoo-oonltte.                           unpeuoateooe-tcetry _bele_tncoe_lochrea
oroaeopOt    ootl   r  tepnelctd  e   ec  hn9y cenculot                            1ojotr'   o   ld  rootyIeCoI   racaes
froeotIooeoytcoenderdotteeyteonhecenoea                                                         otncdhtlctrhluceeePcrynn,iel,rne
hoto  erho    rnecoocce   crouottnleetpehosoceo                                             tdoet   r,e2    eyc            t-net  raonduc_oo,oehotn
ersherecfohrhoooholddeent  hooreopendcOtscrepeteoeuof_ore__ poor
the day to ft nohlog ehe footly' t nacer enods~-d  O F--_                               _ "y r
aeceso n  OocreoaOtrohc   - yorft Prye-aanet  -"Iot   -ha,dn
d   otsedeota   tntatntn  P.                   -                                                                                                         nor 09001~11i   ....



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAI'ITA IN 1981 US$260 a/
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982/83 bh                                                  ANNUAI. RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices) c/
1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75  1975/76-1979190
US$ Bln.    %
GDP at Market Prices                  170.74   100.0                        3.7                 3.6                3.7                2.9               4.1
Gross Domestic Investment               41.99    24.6
Gross National Saving                  38.12    22.3
Current Account Balance              -  3.87   - 2.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added (at factor cost)          Labor Force i/         V.A. Per Worker
S$ Biln.                  %           Mil.         2          S$    % of National Average
Agriculture                            51.7                    35.1         172.7      70.6       299         50
Industry                               35.2                    23.9          31.6      12.9      1114        185
Services                               60.6                    41.0          40.3      16.5      1504        249
Total/Average                         147.5                   100.0         244.6    100.0        803        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government  e/                                  Central Government
Rs. Bln.              % of GDP      _Rs. Bln.                             % of GDP
1982/83      1982/83    1978/79-1982/83            T982/83       1982/83     1978/79-1982/83
Current Receipts                         333.34       20.3             19.5                  175.61        10.7            10.5
Current Expenditures                    340.09        20.7            19.0                   138.59        11.5            10.8
Current Surplus/Deficit                -  6.75       - 0.4             0.5                 - 12.98        - 0.8          - 0.4
Capital Expenditures f1                  131.28        8.0             8.1                    95.13         5.8             5.7
External Assistance (net) d/              19.30        1.2             1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES               1970/71  1975/76  1977/78  19713/79  1979/80  1980,'81  1981/82  1982/83  February 1983  February 1984
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and quasi Money                    109.8    224.8    329.1    401.1    472,3    555.5    624.9    723.8               711.7           845.7
Bank Credit to Government (net)           54.6    106.3    137.3    159.3    200.1    257.2    309.1    352.4               353.5           406.6
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector          64.6    156.2    212.2    255.3    310.1    363.5    430.5    504.5               487.7           576.4
(Percentage or lndex Numbers)                                 Apr-Feb 1982/83  Apr-Feb 1983/84
Money and Quasi Money as a g
of GDP                                 27.3      30.3      36.7      41.1      44.1      43.6      42.0      44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                       100.0    173.0    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.4    288.6               288.1                314.8
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                      7.7      -1.1       5.2       -        17.1      18.2       9.4       2.6          2.3                  9.3
Bank Credit to Government (net)           15.0      22.7      16.3      16.0      25.S      28.5     20.2       14.0         21.0 g/              18.9 h/
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector          19.4      22.7      12.6      20.2      21.5      17.2      18.4      17.2         15.5  3/             17.9 h/
3/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, using World Bank Atlas methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation beifore first year and one observation after last year of
listed period.
d/  World Bank estimates of net disbursement  of concessional aid and IBRD.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
/   Percentage change from end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
h/  Percentage change frota end-March 1983 to end-February 1984.
i/  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from  1981 Census.  Excludes data for Assam.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                       1980/81   1981/82   1982/83)1 1983/842/            MERCRANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1982/83) g/
(US$ Mln.)                                                                                                                   US$ Mln.      f
Exports of Goods a/                        8,504      8,519     &,001      8,466             Engineering Goods r/              980        12
Imports of Goods g/                      -16,204   -15,500   -14,249   -14,412               Tea                               455         6
Trade Balance                            - 7,700   - 6,981   - 6.248   - 5,946               Gems                              779         9
NFS (net)                                   1,365       974        940        856            Clothing                           573        7
Leather and Leather Products    480          6
Resource Balance                         - 6,335   - 6,007   - 5,308       5,090             Jute Manufactures                 333         4
Iron Ore                          3B0        5
Interest Income (net) k/                     600        286   -   415   -   648              Cotton Textiles                   328         4
Net Transfers 1/                           2,771      2,318      1,849      1,790            Sugar                               86        1
Others                          3,849       46
Balance on Current Account               - 2,964   - 3,403   - 3,874   - 3,948
Official Loans & Grants                                                                       Total                          8,243       100
Gross Disbursements                        2,651      2,570      3,086     3,441             EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1983
Amortization                             -   700   -   674   -   701   -   783
US$ billion
Transaction with IMF (net)                  1,035       690      1,980      1,295            Outstanding and Disbursed                    19.6
All Other Items o/                       -   367   - 1,581          12       531             Undisbursed                                  11.1
Outstanding including Undisbursed           30.7
Increase in Reserves (-)                     345      2,398   -   503   -   536
Gross Reserves (end year) p/               6,859      4,461      4,964     5,500             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982/83  _/  n/       10.1 per cent
Net Reserves (end year) m/                 6,532      3,497      2,088      1,449
IBRD/IDA LENDING, MARCH 31, 1984 I/
Fuel and Related Materials
US$ million
Imports (Petroleum) g/                     6,672      5,590      4,613     3,395                                                    IBRD     IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed             1,826      7,924
Undisbursed                           2,081      4,331
Outstanding including Undisbursed   3,907    12,255
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971           US$1.00 - Rs 7.50
Rs 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-March 1983                 Us$1.00 - Rs 10.0301
Rs 1.00 - US$0.0997
Spot Rate end-March 1984                 US$1.00 - Rs 10.7181
Rs 1.00 - US$0.0933
i/ Estimated
k/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to IMF, and major receipts is
interest earSed on foreign assets.
l/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within official loans and grants, and
non-resident deposits which are included within all other items.
m/ Exclude net use of IMF credit.
n/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of total current receipts.
o/ Includes exchange rate adjustments to the valuation of reserves and financing of imbalances in rupee trade.
p/ Excluding gold.
g/ Net of crude petroleum exports.
r/ Including iron and steel,



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                               1,688.0          -
83 Credits fully disbursed                                  -        4,759.0            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -           30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -           83.0           6.83
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -           27.7           6.30
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -           16.4          -0.11
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -          105.0           3.12
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -          150.0           3.95
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development          -           18.0           3.25
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0          -            44.92
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0          -            15.89
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0          -             4.77
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -           30.0          13.37
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -           20.0           3.30
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -          150.0           7.45
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0           10.29
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0          -             4.08
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                -           10.0           0.49
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation              -           23.0           6.99
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -            8.0           3.96
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                 -           70.0           4.05
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5          -             2.49
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -          107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II          -           87.0           6.51
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -            8.0            5.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0          -             2.54
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0          -             8.38
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -          117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -          200.0          47.64
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -           14.0          11.01
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -           85.0          19.30
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -           17.5           9.98
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -           16.0           8.88
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications V-tI              120.0          -            22.27
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                         -          150.0          76.70
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -          196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernizationi
& Maintenance                       -          190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -           38.0           8.48
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -           27.0          18.96
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -              25.0          7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -           30.0           5.51
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -         200.0          41.57
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                     -         129.0          61.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply              -          48.0          15.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -         175.0          21.96
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -          23.0           8.05
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -         210.0          82.85
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry            -          37.0          15.27
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -          20.0          17.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                         -          46.0          36.41
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -          32.0          23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0         121.65
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                             -          22.0          18.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0         213.36
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension         -          10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport              -          56.0          23.21
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                 -          54.0          41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0          61.54
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0         -            10.61
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0         -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 -         225.0         170.60
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0         -            23.46
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0           -             7.41
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                     -          35.0          23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                     -          83.0          72.77
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II            -          42.0          29.04
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -         140.0         128.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -         314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -          54.0          53.45
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -         400.0         281.64
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -          23.0          20.24
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -          28.0          23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -          37.0          35.73
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -         125.0         106.34
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II        -         400.0         367.32
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -         220.0         199.76
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -            61.58
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry           -          29.0          25.41
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -          25.0          21.68
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0         -           104.43
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0         -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                             190.0          -          121.32
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0          5.50
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization          200.0         -           171.60
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III           304.5          -          300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -           20.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -           60.0          45.33
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                   -           72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Hlaryana Social Forestry            -           33.0          31.06
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                 -            -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0          26.94
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -          127.0         121.37
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration         165.5          -           158.92
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         197.01
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development        222.3          -           219.01
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                  -          150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public TubewelLs II               -          101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power            -          170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power          156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III*        -          147.0         147.00
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization          -           32.0          32.00
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         22.7          -            22.64
2283-ItN   1983      Central Power Transmission*          250.7          -           250.70
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management        46.2          -            46.08
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban*                 24.1          -            24.10
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II*                  -          105.0         105.00
Total                                     5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid                1,251.2        136.1
Total now outstanding                     3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           2,100.45    4,124.24
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time! of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                      Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -        0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3      3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8        -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.7         -      15.7
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.3         -       8.3
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                           53.0       3.4      56.4
Repaid                        30.1         -      30.1
Cancelled                     16.1        1.4      17.5
Now Held                     112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                   82.9         -      82.9
===== ~ ~ - ==



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
IND:tA
SECOND FARAKKA THEIRMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Erents
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the proiect
About two years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
National Thermal Power Corporation.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
The project was first presented to the Bank in February
1983; an appraisal mission visited India in
November/December 1983.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 16, 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 8, 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 31, 1984.
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Assurance of provision of coal supplies by GOI
(para. 51);
(b) Execution of subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and
NTPC (condition of effectiveness, para. 56);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Achievement of financial rate of return by NTPC
(para. 61); and
(d) Execution of electricity supply contracts between NTPC
and each of the SEBs of the Eastern and Southern
Regions (condition of effectiveness, para. 62), and
execution, by March 31, 1986, of improved individual or
regional supply contracts for the Northern, Western,
Southern and Eastern Regions (para. 63).



I
I



18RD 1I000
r   72'                            )1v \5jbrshar                                                                                                                                                        MARCnH 1984
,? PUNJAB,                   A-
S-  PotiabO! T 1 f          ~ '>'   C5                                                                          I N   D  I A
P A K  I S T A N                                                                   n- t 2Siv SRIshikerk                ,                           SECOND  FARAKKA  THERMAL
n                                                                           A/ V '                            POWER PROJECT
!-e3I2DS6H I /   \ Dd h a d b                                         44 0 0                                 kV    G R ID
U    I"T    T \,A    R Pi
(                                                                     Agro~ N O   R    T   E  '8Nx 4I~A                -                    !         o                     200            400            600
Jalpur  ____ / __-op9 >   P&s  R  aA  D   E   S   H  kt                                                      v U _-KILOMETERS
0 ---   - --A                                                                                                              S
Bihorehorif DFn                                       AL\ <LG AYA
24-20'S                                                                                                                      o i    B   I  H   er                                                                                   20
Ang.h    pora                                                        /-TS~0fRIPURA    ~
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A,d' AA' R' R S/  RVc     f 
N-dp   o -                                        Joholpor                 5 ;-                     '               o 
onikoroC h-&   BET'jG L                                        *
'no<  "'                                    PRA          S H  Ko"o ' 
Karodk   _;_ ?     Hyderabpdro 1s                   oMnho 
Jepr     Ukor       C`;w   -.                                        Pe-c1B                                                                                                            R M
-16'                           ,}  Nogor Kunos og r od             Rhilwoda   .                   T
KoA >irnoo  .       ANDH,'A   J          E             __ _   4 BohIenol hro  P wr ChodrpUroto
IR        ,       S   AP
ro~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'onjrooo -|                                                     VroEn oreSoo                                               Eecrcod     ord 
-12                           tV         Bangolo ecf'      / ~~~rJ   YRedlnis                                 O             *      Hydr PawerQNStoUCTGN /                                                      12-o
GO ) Mnno                              H/P)  |RJC                                 PO/GO         *-         oto Thermal  P     ower   Corpooiron
-8  A, ""H    A        P    A                              S H ST  H'  __                                      _ 0    L                                                               S
r   odph . '0 kO' SRI   ANKAo
K72 -                  B~bl.                                                                                             Stl r,-ctn' rty88'
Ch-h-dSogloooi~                           -o~6Eooe---                                                             0k\bn
/_;    A               A//                                                            hemlPoe   toin
I   Uduonol Appett  I   eEhno.non  Tno  mttn Elctn,Lolo rc eoonntNe
KERAL~~'   N  A  0  U*         O-OC 000000ld
[  -  -           '~~~~r SR   -LANKAV 'II
72  70          -                                                                                          on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,  .- B-d -



I



