Report No. PID8844
Project Name                     Brazil-Second Social Security Special Sector...
Adjustment Loan (S/SECAL)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Management/Pension Reform
Project ID                       BRPE64901
Borrower(s)                      Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency              Ministerio da Previdencia e Assistencia Social
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "F" e 7 andar
70059-900, Brasilia, D.F.
Ministerio da Fazenda Nacional
Procuraduria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Minsterios, Bloco "P' e 8 andar
70048-900, Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         January 28, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 30, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      Brazil is the latest of the major countries in Latin America to reform
its public pension system. As in other countries with an unreformed Pay As
You Go (PAYGO) system, the imbalance of the social security accounts have
become a dominant factor in the deterioration of the country's fiscal
position. The main cause of the fiscal imbalance of the pension system has
been the absence of a relationship between pension benefits and
contributions, primarily in the public sector pension system. During the
past periods of high inflation, the government could easily make generous
promises to future pensioners, since inflation increased nominal revenue, but
eroded the value of pension benefits. With the reduction of inflation in
1994, brought about by the Real Plan, the unsustainability of the pension
system became evident.
2.      Recognizing that urgent measures had to be taken to reduce expenditures
and increase revenues, the Government made social security reform a
centerpiece of its adjustment strategy, not only for the fiscal payoff, but
also as a signal to international financial markets that the Government is
able to succeed in tackling a fundamental structural problem. Pension reform
in Brazil has been difficult because the main tenets of the pension system
were spelled out in the Federal Constitution of 1988. After three years of
intensive debate, an amendment to the Constitution was approved in December
15, 1998, a critical first step towards reforming the system.
3.      The Government's pension reform program is being implemented in phases,
and complements major reforms in the areas of labor legislation and
administrative reform. The First Phase of the Pension Reform Program



involved approval of a Constitutional Amendment modifying clauses in the
Constitutions related to the three pension systems (pension system of private
sector workers, pension system of public sector workers, and system of
complementary private pension funds). The Constitutional Amendment aimed at
correcting the social security system's long term fiscal and actuarial
imbalances, as well as its distortionary effects on the economy. One of its
main achievements was the introduction of the principle of actuarial and
fiscal balance for all the pension regimes. The passage of the
Constitutional Amendment opened the door for further reforms to be
implemented in the second and third phases of reform through the enactment of
specific laws concerning each of the pension regimes. Along with the approval
of the Constitutional Amendment, the Administration announced a number of
emergency measures to reduce the deficit of the pension regime for public-
sector workers, as well as a General Public Pension Law that would reduce the
deficit of civil servant pension plans at the state and municipal levels of
government. The first phase of the Administration's pension reform also
included initial steps to restructure the National Institute of Social
Security (INSS) to improve the delivery of services, increase revenue
collection, and reduce evasion.
4.      The Second Phase of the Pension Reform Program    centers on the
implementation of additional reforms to achieve the financial and actuarial
balance of the pension system for private sector workers (RGPS), as
prescribed in the Constitutional Amendment. To this effect, a new law was
enacted in November 1999 that defines the new basis for benefit calculations
for retirees and survivors of the RGPS. According to the new law, the value
of the benefit is calculated considering the average of the 80% highest
annual wages over the entire period of contributions. The formula includes
an actuarial coefficient which multiplies the average wage. The actuarial
coefficient is calculated according to the worker's length of contribution,
age and life expectancy at retirement. This new formula creates a closer
link between contributions and benefits, and encourages workers to keep
working, even after meeting all the legal qualifications for retirement. A
rule of transition is included through a gradual application of the actuarial
coefficient over five years. Bank estimates show that with the new benefit
formula, the RGPS achieves fiscal balance in about 2003, and the surplus
rises to almost 1% of GDP by 2010, instead of a deficit of 2% of GDP without
the reform.
5.      Within Brazil's social security system there is an impressive social
protection subprogram that covers the old age population and rural workers.
In reforming the RGPS, the Government has taken provisions to protect the
pension benefits of these two groups. Retirees under the Old Age Pension
scheme (which accounts for about one third of all social security benefits)
have the option of using the new formula for the calculation of their
benefits only if it results on a higher pension. This provision protects in
particular women and rural workers, because women account for 80% of
beneficiaries of the Old Pension scheme, and 2/3rds of rural pensioners are
in the Old Age Pension scheme. Also, there is a minimum wage past which the
new benefit formula will not be applied to calculate pension benefits. Other
reforms implemented in this phase include the submission to Congress of draft
legislation and the issuance of regulations to strengthen the regulatory
framework of the RGPS and of the system of complementary pension funds, and
advances in the restructuring of the INSS.
- 2-



The Loan
6.      Loan Objectives.   The proposed Second Social Security S/SECAL would
support the second phase of the Government's pension reform program. It
would be disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness. A first Social
Security S/SECAL (a single tranche loan of US$757.57 million) was approved on
January 6, 1999 in support of the first phase of the Government's pension
reform program. Both loans are part of the World Bank's program of special
support for Brazil's Program of Fiscal Stabilization and Reforms. The
proceeds of the loan would help Brazil meet its external financing
requirements.
7.      Amount of the Loan.   The S/SECAL loan of US$505.06 million is provided
at US$ LIBOR plus 40 basis points, with a 1 percent front-end fee to be
financed out of the loan and a 75 basis points commitment charges without
waivers. The loan has a 5-year maturity, including 3 years of grace.
8.      Project Sustainability.   The policy reforms supported by this
adjustment loan are expected to have permanent effects since they are based
on a Constitutional amendment, and supported by a population increasingly
aware of the unsustainability of the previous pension regime.
9.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.    The Bank
has accumulated vast experience in the area of pension reform through a
number of adjustment operations targeting national systems. One lesson
learned from previous loans is that adjustment loans have to be supported by
strong analytical work. In Brazil, the Bank is embarked on a strong
analytical effort in the social security/labor area.
10      Environmental Aspects. This project is not expected to have
environmental implications.
11.     Program Objective Categories.   The project is consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal of supporting reform in the area of
social security reform.
12.     Poverty Category.   This project will not be included in the Program of
Targeted Intervention.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Mariluz Cortes
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-0029
Fax:        (202) 522-2106
- 3 -



Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 31, 2000.
- 4 -



