Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7360 BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED SECOND SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.06 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
March 7, 2000
]Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Unit
]Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
-the performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed
'without Bank authorization.



Currency and Equivalents
Currency unit: The Real (R$)
R$1.21 = US$1 (January 1999)
R$1.82 = US$1 (January 2000)
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BIS            =         Bank for International Settlements
CAS            =         Country Assistance Strategy Paper
CNIS           =         Unified Cadaster of Social Information
ESW                      Economic and Sector Work
GDP            =         Gross Domestic Product
IDB            =         Interamerican Development Bank
IMF            =         International Monetary Fund
INSS           =         National Institute for Social Security
IPEA           =         Institute of Applied Economics
LIBOR          =         London Interbank Offer Rate
MPAS                     Ministry of Social Security and Social Action
PAYGO          =         Pay As You Go Pension System
RGPS           =         Private Sector Workers Pension System (Regime Geral de
Previdencia Social)
RJU            =         Public Sector Workers Pension System (Regime Juridico
Unico)
SAL            =         Structural Adjustment Loan
SCPP           =         Complementary pension fund system
S/SECAL        =         Special Sector Adjustment Loan
SPC            =         Secretariat of Complementary Pension System (within
MPAS)
SUSEP          =         Superintendecy of Pension Insurance
Vice President              Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director            Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager             Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Manager               Ms. Mariluz Cortes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SECOND SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower                 Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount and Terms         S/SECAL
US$505.06 million (including capitalized front-end fee of
1%), at the 6-month US$LIBOR plus 400 basis points,
reset semiannually, a one percent front-end fee to be
financed out of the loan, and a 75 basis points commitment
charge, without waivers. The loan will have special terms:
5 years maturity, including 3 years of grace.
Description:             The loan would be the second of two S/SECALs in support
of Brazil's Social Security Reform Program. The First
S/SECAL supported the first phase of the reform program
which  centered  on  Congressional  approval  of  a
Constitutional Amendment that modified the articles in the
Constitution that were largely responsible for the fiscal
imbalances of Brazil's pension systems. This proposed
Second S/SECAL would support the second phase of the
reform program centered on the implementation of
additional reforms to achieve the financial and actuarial
balance of the pension system for private sector workers
(RGPS), as prescribed in the Constitutional Amendment.
To this effect, legislation has been enacted that defines the
new basis for benefit calculations for retirees and survivors
of the private workers pension system, respecting the
principle of actuarial and fiscal balance. With the new
benefit formnula, the RGPS achieves fiscal balance in about
three years. Other reforms implemented in this phase
include the submission to Congress of draft legislation and
the issuance of regulations to strengthen the regulatory
framework of the RGPS and of the system of
complementary pension funds, and advances in the
restructuring of the National Institute of Social Security.
Benefits and Risks       The adoption of a new benefit formula for the RGPS is an
important reform which will significantly reduce the deficit
of the system. This will contribute to fiscal adjustment
which, in turn, will improve the prospects of rapid growth
and low inflation, important elements for poverty
reduction. Other important implications of the new benefit
formula are that it links benefits to the individual's
[his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by Tecipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
'World Bank authorization.



contribution period, contribution rate and life expectancy;
protects against demographic changes; and reduces labor
market distortions. Also, the creation of a modem
regulatory framework for pension funds in the public and
the private sector will have a major impact on the
development of these funds as a third pension pillar, to
compensate for the adoption of more affordable pension
benefits in the future.
The risks to the second phase of the social security reform
program are moderate, because the main reform-the
adoption of a new benefit formula for the RGPS-has
already been approved. However, as it is common to this
type of reforms, the new benefit formula could be subjected
to legal challenges. The likelihood that these challenges
will succeed are judged to be low for the following reasons.
First, the Administration has demonstrated its commitment
to maintain the main elements of its reform program in the
face of any possible legal challenges. Second, the reform is
supported by the Constitutional Amendment approved in
December 1998, which establishes the requirement that
pension systems be actuarially and fiscally balanced. The
risk that Congress will not approve some of the bills of law
presented in this phase (to improve the regulation of the
RGPS and the Complementary Pension System) is low
because they are not highly controversial and some of them
have already been approved by the Chamber.
Poverty Category:        Not applicable
Disbursements:           One tranche to be disbursed after effectiveness. All
conditions were met before Board presentation.
Project Identification No. P064981



THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
PROPOSED SECOND SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE No.
I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS ..................................................   2
A. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND POLICIES .............................................. 2
B  POVERTY REDUCTION .......................................................  3
II. BRAZIL'S PENSION SYSTEM  AND REFORM  PROGRAM ...................... 5
A. STRUCTURE OF BRAZIL'S PENSION SYSTEM ....................................................... 5
B. BRAZIL'S PENSION REFORM PROGRAM ......................       ..................................6
C. ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF REFORM ................. ................. 7
D. THE SECOND PHASE OF PENSION REFORM .......................................................   10
E. A FRAMEWORK FOR THE THIRD PHASE OF PENSION REFORM ...................................... 1 7
III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ......................                 ............................ 19
A. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ON PENSION REFORM .................................................. 19
B. COORDINATION WITH MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS .................................................. 2 1
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN ..................................................                    21
A. LOAN OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .......................................................  21
B. COMMITMENTS UNDER THE PROPOSED LOAN .......................................................     22
C. DISBURSEMENTS AND AUDITS .......................................................       24
D. IMPACT, BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................................     25
V. RECOMMENDATION .................................................. 27
ANNEXES
I.   Brazil Pension Reform Program: Matrix
II.  The New Benefit Formula for the Pension System  for Private Sector Workers
III. Letter of Sector Policy
IV. Brazil: Key Economic Indicators
V.   Brazil: Key Exposure Indicators
VI. Status of Bank Group Operations
VII. Status of IFC Investments
VIII. Brazil at a Glance
This operation has been prepared by a World Bank team composed of: Messrs./Mmes.
Mariluz Cortes (Task Manager-LCSFP); Indermit Gill (Lead Economist LCSHD);
Truman Packard (LCHSD); Anita Schwarz (HDNSP); Asta Zviene (HDNSP); Jose
Augusto Carvalho (LEGLA); Suman Bery (Lead Economist LCC5A); and worked under
the guidance of Gobind T. Nankani, Director






2
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED SECOND SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.06 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
1. The proposed second Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan (S/SECAL) for
the Federative Republic of Brazil would be a single tranche loan for US$505.06 million
(including front-end fee), to support the second phase of the Government's Social
Security Reform Program. The loan would be at 6-month US$ LIBOR plus 400 basis
points, reset semiannually, a one percent front-end fee to be financed out of the loan, and
a 75 basis points commitment charge without waivers. The loan would have special
terms: 5-year maturity, including 3 years of grace.
2.   This is the second of two adjustment loans in support of Brazil's Social Security
Reform Program. The first Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan was
approved in January 1999. These operations are part of a proposed Bank package of
adjustment loans totaling US$2.5 billion that also supports fiscal and administrative
reforms. The Bank package is an integral part of a broader support initiative by the IFIs,
including the IMF and the IDB, together with selected bilateral governments, directly and
through the BIS to help Brazil meet its external financing requirements in support of key
structural and social reforms.
I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
A.  MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND POLICIES
3. Since the early 1990s, Brazil has been engaged in a major reform of its economy,
moving away from import substitution and state owned enterprises, towards greater
emphasis on private initiative, competition and international integration. Considerable
progress has been made in controlling inflation and creating an improved economic
environment for private enterprise, fiscal adjustment and reform of the public sector.
From 1992 to 1997 Brazil experienced a very successful growth performance. Annual
growth averaged 4.2%, a major improvement over the average for the previous five-year
period (0.0%). Factors contributing to this positive outcome include a trade liberalization
during the early 1990s and a well-designed and implemented economic stabilization
program initiated in mid-1994 (the Real Plan), together with a favorable international
economic environment. By contrast, the last two and a half years (mid-1997 to end-
1999) have seen a much more volatile international economic environment with a series
of crises in international markets. These crises adversely affected growth in Latin



3
America and Brazil was no exception. The average rate of growth during 1998-99 was
only 0.3%, but by the end of 1999, recovery of industrial output was firmly established.
4.    As a result of the stabilization plan introduced in 1994, annual inflation declined
from over 2000% in 1993 to less than 2% in 1998. Even the large currency depreciation
of January 1999 had a fairly limited pass-through impact on inflation. Inflation in 1999
was contained to about 20% on broad price indices and 8% on consumer price indices.
This was the result of sluggish aggregate demand and continued monetary tightness.
Following the change in the exchange rate regime in 1999, from a crawling band to a
floating rate, Brazil introduced a sophisticated inflation targeting framework. Targets
were set at 8%, 6% and 4% respectively for 1999-2000, with a margin of two percentage
points on each side. With an improved fiscal framework and assuming an absence of
external shocks, the inflation targets for 2000-01 are realistic. The inflation targets
provide the anchor for monetary policy.
5.    Policy performance has also improved substantially.  As early as 1995, the
Government attempted to address the structural fiscal deficit unmasked by price stability.
However, lack of legislative consensus meant that fiscal adjustment lagged behind other
parts of the economic reform program. As a result, Brazil has been dependent on large
capital inflows. This dependence coupled with the then prevailing exchange rate regime
implied vulnerability to sentiments in international markets. The Government responded
competently and effectively to the loss of market confidence in late- 1998 and early- 1999
with a combination of tightened monetary policy and fast-acting fiscal adjustment
measures coupled with a new drive for structural fiscal reforms. Throughout 1999, fiscal
adjustment has been carried out with tremendous effort and remarkable discipline and has
achieved the ambitious targets that were set. These measures, taken together with the
shift to a floating exchange rate in January 1999, have been successful in preserving
economic stability and regaining market confidence. Provided the external environment
remains benign, Brazil can look forward to a return to steady, non-inflationary growth.
Brazil's remaining economic vulnerability results from its continuing, though declining,
fiscal and current account deficits. As fiscal deficits are closely correlated with current
account deficits, fiscal adjustment at both national and sub-national levels are critical for
reducing vulnerability and restoring growth.
B. POVERTY REDUCTION
6.    Following a period of increasing poverty from  1987-1994, the Real Plan
significantly reduced poverty levels during the period 1994-1998.  The national
headcount ratio (using a poverty line of R$65 per capita per month at 1996 prices)
declined from 34% in 1993 to 22% in 19981. This beneficial effect was due to: (i)
economic growth and rising real wages; (ii) the end of inflation (salary erosion and
inflation tax); (iii) a significant appreciation of the local currency shifting relative prices
toward the service sectors in which most poor work; and (iv) a significant increase in the
minimum wage to which important income sources, such as pensions, are tied. Despite
these advances, Brazil continues to be a country with high income inequality and a high
Poverty data here come from a forthcoming urban poverty report based on the 1998 PNAD household
survey and a food-only poverty line.



4
level of poverty for its level of per-capita income. The average 1998 headcount ratio of
21.7% masks important regional differences, with regional headcount ratios ranging from
8.5% in the South East to 47.3% in the North-East.
7.    The succession of economic crises since 1997 has affected the poor mainly
through reduced labor demand and the resulting reduction in employment and/or real
wages. Nevertheless, since economic performance in 1999 has been much better than
feared at the time of the devaluation in early 1999, the negative poverty impact of the
crisis has also been much less severe than expected. According to available
measurements of labor incomes 2, the headcount poverty rate in six metropolitan areas
dropped from a peak of 35.3% in July 1994 to a low of 24.6% in October 1997. The rate
increased continuously from November 1997 until March 1999, when it reached 30.0%.
The latest data through September 1999 shows a slight improvement in poverty rates
indicating a reversal in the negative impact of the crisis. Country-wide indicators show a
trend of slowly reducing labor income inequality continuing through 1998. The rate of
open unemployment reached a high of 8.2% in March 1999 but since then has declined
again to 6.3% (December 1999).
8.    Government support for the poor during the difficult 1998-99 period has been
increasingly effective. Supported by the Bank's Social Protection S/SECAL and a
parallel operation by the IDB, the Federal Government has effectively protected the
expenditures for a core set of 22 selected priority social programs in the areas of
education, health, labor, and social assistance, considered to be particularly effective in
reaching the poor. Despite the drastic overall cuts in the 1999 budget, allocations for
these programs (totaling about R$12 billion) were protected near or above their 1998
levels. Total actual spending for these protected programs in 1999 has slightly exceeded
the Government's commitments. Physical implementation indicators for these programs
have significantly exceeded the targets in most cases. The Government's budget proposal
for 2000 implies an increase in funding for the total of the 22 programs of 20% over the
1999 budget proposal and 12% over the approved 1999 budget, including very significant
increases for relatively new and promising programs that link transfer payments to poor
families to children's school attendance (Child Labor Eradication Program, and Bolsa
Escola). Subnational Governments have also contributed to social protection in the crisis
period, for example through workfare programs implemented by several states and
municipalities. At the same time, the Federal Government is proceeding with a program
to improve the quality and targeting of spending in the social area. The remaining second
and third tranches of the IDB's Social Protection Loan are linked to physical performance
indicators of the protected programs and a program of studies and steps to improve
targeting and quality of these programs. In addition, the Bank would follow with
particular interest the strengthening of the implementation framework (monitoring and
evaluation, technical assistance, training, and capacity building for participating
municipalities, etc.) for the transfer programs linked to school attendance discussed
above.
2 Data from the Monthly Employment Survey, PME, undertaken by IBGE. This survey most likely
exaggerates the negative impact of the crisis since it is limited to six metropolitan areas (most likely
the hardest hit areas) and excludes income from transfer programs which would have compensated for
some of the loss of labor income.



5
9.    Increased public and political attention toward poverty problems, together with
policy reforms undertaken in recent years, strongly suggest an improved outlook for
Brazil's poor. The remarkable rise of poverty reduction in public debate (over the last
year in particular), is reflected in a Congressional initiative to formulate concrete
proposals for additional poverty reduction efforts and by a proposal to create a new
Poverty Alleviation Fund that has the Government's support and is currently being
debated in Congress. Structural reforms of the economy have laid the groundwork for
economic stability that would protect the poor from income fluctuations related to failed
stabilization attempts. The impact of renewed growth on poverty reduction, though
gradual, will be important over the medium term. The major drive for improved
education access and quality is still recent but will yield significant poverty reduction
results in the medium term. The impact of other structural social policies including land
reform, urban upgrading, professional training, labor market reforms, and others, is
difficult to quantify but qualitatively important and expected to continue, including the
social assistance component of Social Security (which is protected under the social
security reform being supported by the Bank). The poverty reducing impact of transfer
programs has been large in recent years and is also expected to continue, especially if
measures for better targeting are successfully implemented. The Government's stated
intention is to reduce the poverty rate by 50% by the year 2015. This target could be
accomplished with annual average growth of 3.5%, with the joint effect of other
structural social policies and improved social protection, and if recent improvements in
outcomes from educational policies continue.3
-I. BRAZIL'S PENSION SYSTEM AND REFORM PROGRAM
A.  STRUCTURE OF BRAZIL'S PENSION SYSTEM
10.   Although Brazil has a long tradition of government mandated social insurance
going back almost 70 years, the Federal Constitution of 1988 entrenched a system of
expensive entitlements whose real costs only became apparent with the defeat of inflation
in 1994. Brazil's social security system is divided into three branches.
*> The national social security system for workers in the private sector (Regime
Geral de Previdencia Social - RGPS), administered by the Federal Government's
National Social Security Institute (INSS), from which 18 million Brazilians receive
pension, disability and survivor benefits, and to which about half of the labor force of
60 million make compulsory contributions.
The pension regime for civil servants (Regime Juridico Unico - RJU), administered
by the Federal Government, and all state and many municipal governments for their
workers; contributors and beneficiaries each number about 3 million.
Funded pension plans to supplement RGPS pensions (Sistema da Previdencia
Complementar - SPC): Privately managed pension plans intended to supplement
RGPS benefits; contributors number 3 million and beneficiaries 1.5 million, however,
the industry is dominated by pension funds of public enterprises.
A detailed discussion is provided in the CAS.



6
Hi.   In the World Bank's standard terminology, Brazil's system of old age income
support has a large mandatory publicly-managed pay-as-you-go first pillar consisting of
the RGPS and the RJU, and a relatively small (but growing) voluntary privately-managed
funded third pillar consisting of the SPC.
B. BRAZIL'S PENSION REFORM PROGRAM
12.   As in other countries in Latin America that ran unfunded pay-as-you-go
(PAYGO) pension regimes, the imbalance in the social security accounts is a dominant
factor in Brazil's fiscal position and financial vulnerability. Unlike other PAYGO
systems, imbalances in Brazil's first pillar regimes (the RGPS and the RJU) were
aggravated by constitutionally-guaranteed full income replacement for covered workers
(100% of average of last 3 years salaries in RGPS, and 100% of last salary in RJU), and
the absence of a minimum age at which workers could retire.
13.   Recognizing the problems plaguing its social security system, the present
administration is committed to a phased program of pension reform aimed at: (a)
reducing the fiscal deficit of the pension system; (b) reducing the inequality in pension
benefits between the pension programs of private and public sector workers; and (c)
broadening individual choice by expanding the system of complementary pension funds.
Under this scheme, the first-pillar pensions would concentrate on providing more basic
benefits aimed at poverty alleviation, while concentrating second and third pillar pensions
on replacing previous earnings. This reform program is being implemented in phases and
will complement major reforms being implemented in the areas of labor legislation and
administrative reform.
14.   The first phase of the administration's pension reform program, supported by the
Bank's First Social Security S/SECAL (approved in January 1999), centered on
Congressional approval of a Constitutional Amendment modifying those clauses in the
1988 Constitution which were largely responsible for the current fiscal problems of the
system.4. The primary objective of the amendment was to loosen the constitutional
constraints tying the hands of the Government, to allow it to pursue reforms that would
stabilize the growing pensions deficit.
15.   Constitutional Amendment No. 20, approved by Congress in December 1998 after
five years of debate, was aimed at correcting the social security system's long term fiscal
and actuarial imbalances, as well as its distortionary effects on the economy. One of the
main achievements of the Constitutional Amendment was the introduction of the
principle of actuarial and fiscal balance for all the pension regimes. Along with the
approval of the Constitutional Amendment, the Administration announced a number of
emergency measures to reduce the deficit of the pension regime for public-sector workers
(RJU), as well as a General Public Pension Law that would reduce the deficit of civil
servant pension plans at the state and municipal levels of government. The first phase of
the Administration's pension reform also included initial steps to restructure the INSS to
4 For a more detailed discussion of structural weaknesses in each branch of the Brazilian social security
system, the results of actuarial analysis and recommended reforms, see World Bank Report No.
19641-BR Brazil: Critical Issues in Social Security.



7
improve the delivery of services, increase revenue collection, and reduce evasion of pay-
roll contributions5.
16.   The passage of the Constitutional Amendment 20/98, opened the door for further
reforms to be implemented in the second and third phases of reform through the
enactment of specific laws concerning each of the pension regimes. These subsequent
reforms are very important because the fiscal balance of the first pillar regimes remains
the principal challenge to even the immediate viability of the pension system. The
overall pension deficit in 1999 was US$27.6 billion, about 5% of GDP. Without reform,
the pension deficit could reach about 11% of GDP in 2020. The accounting deficit
(receipts minus expenditures) in the RGPS are estimated at about US$5.1 billion (0.9% of
GDP) in 1999. The deficit of the public servants RJU (including Federal, state and local
RJUs) is estimated at about US$22.5 billion in 1999 (4.1% of GDP). After assuming a
"government-as-employer" contribution similar to private employers' contributions in the
RGPS, the public servants RJU deficit goes down to about US$16.4 billion (3.0% of
GDP).
Constraints to Pension Reform
17.   Reform of the pension system is unusually difficult in Brazil compared with other
countries because benefit rules and eligibility criteria are embodied in the Federal
Constitution adopted in 1988. Reforrns are urgently needed, however, because these
benefit guarantees are unsustainable: full income replacement for covered workers, easy
eligibility conditions, weak or no links between contributions and benefits, and the
absence of minimum retirement ages. Ambiguities in the law also lead to frequent
judicial challenges. With pension rules in the judiciary, legislature, and military under
scrutiny, the political hurdles for pension reform are especially high. Reforn of the
pension system is Brazil is subject to approval by the legislature. For example, changing
eligibility rules and benefit levels require altering the Constitution, which requires 3/5ths
approval in both upper and lower houses, twice. Changing contribution levels, and since
1999 RGPS benefits and eligibility, is legislatively easier, but can be subject to legal
challenges.
C. ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF REFORM
18.   All of the objectives of the First S/SECAL were met prior to the loan's
presentation to the Board. These included the approval by Congress of the amendment to
the 1988 Constitution introducing key legislative reforms to each branch of the social
security system; passage of the General Public Pensions Law specifically for state and
municipal pension plans; and preliminary steps in the institutional restructuring of INSS.
The conditions of the First S/SECAL are presented in the first column of the policy
matrix in Annex I of this report. This section presents the key indicators of progress
achieved in the first phase of the Government's medium-term strategy in each branch of
the social security system since the passage of the Constitutional Amendment.
5 Steps taken to restructure the INSS are being supported by a Social Security Technical Assistance
Leaming and Innovation Loan (No. 4537-OBR).



8
Advances Made in Reform of the Pension System for Private Sector Workers RGPS
19.   The passage of Constitutional Amendment 20/98 made possible adjustments to
the PAYGO parameters of the first-pillar regime for workers in the private sector, that
with the second phase of structural reforms, would bring the system into fiscal and
actuarial balance. The Amendment accomplished the following with respect to the
RGPS:
removed the definition of the benefit formula from the 1988 Constitution (from the
average of 36 months salaries);
*> eliminated special pension regimes, except for school teachers and some risky
occupations;
* adopted years-of-contributions instead of years-of-service for benefit eligibility;
*> eliminated early retirement with a partial pension (70%), with transition rules;
set a ceiling on retirement benefits indexed to inflation;
expanded the contribution base to all work-related earnings;
*> allowed income taxes to be levied on pension and survivor benefits of persons over
65 years old; and
opened the work injury insurance program to the private sector.
20.   A provision to introduce a minimum retirement age under the RGPS failed to be
approved by Congress. The approval of the Constitutional Amendment concerning the
RGPS, was expected to have a modest fiscal impact as a result of the elimination of the
early retirement option (aposentadoria proporcional) with reduced benefits (70%).
Simulations using the World Bank's Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit
(PROST) of the fiscal effects of the Constitutional amendment are discussed in par. 29.
A larger fiscal impact from the Constitutional amendment was expected to be felt later
on, as a result of adopting a new benefit formula that would respect the principles of
actuarial and fiscal balance, as mandated by the Constitutional amendment6.
Advances Made in Restructuring the National Institute of Social Security INSS
21.   Under the first phase of pension reform, the JNSS made significant advances in its
program of institutional strengthening aimed at improving efficiency, reduce operating
costs and enabling it to implement the systemic reforms of the pension system for private
sector workers and to carry out its new role as supervisor of the pension regime for public
sector workers. The most significant advances made by the INSS under the firs phase of
pension reform included: (i) adoption of a new questionnaire to collect, monthly,
individualized information of workers' employment and contribution histories; (ii)
implementation of a system to link electronically the INSS with the 10,000 largest
contributors; (iii) acceleration of administrative collections.
6 A new benefit formula was adopted with approval of Law No.9876/99 on November 1999, which indeed
has important positive fiscal effects, and which this loan supports.



9
Advances Made in Reform of the Pension System for Public Sector Workers RJU
22.    The Constitutional Amendment introduced important parametric adjustments to
the pension regime for civil servants at the federal, state and municipal levels of
government. The Amendment requires that RJU pensions be strictly contribution-based,
and that future parameters be set to ensure financial and actuarial balance.  The
amendment accomplished the following with respect to the RJU:
adopted years-of-contributions instead of years-of-service for benefit eligibility;
* eliminated early retirement with a partial pension (70%), with transition rules;
set a ceiling on retirement benefits indexed to inflation;
*> introduced minimum tenure to be eligible for retirement: 10 years in government and
5 years in current position;
*> eliminated the possibility of collecting multiple pensions and of simultaneously
collecting salaries and pensions;
* fixed minimum retirement age: 48 for women and 53 for men, with transition rules
for gradual increase to 55 for women 60 for men;
-> allows the establishment of complementary pension funds by the federal government,
states and municipalities to supplement RJU pensions; and
allowed income taxes to be levied on pension and survivor benefits of persons over
65 years old; and
23.    The Constitutional Amendment with respect to the RJU had some limitations. A
provision to eliminate the benefit formula for the RJU from the Constitution, which was
in an earlier version of the amendment, failed to receive Congressional approval. During
the first phase of reform, Congress approved (January 1999) a progressive increase in the
contribution rate for federal executive branch workers and retirees (this reform was not
included in the conditions of the first S/SECAL).   The constitutionality of the
Government's January  1999 progressive contribution increase7 and imposition of
contributions on existing beneficiaries, was immediately challenged in the courts. On
September 30, 1999, the Supreme Court struck down the measure that, if implemented,
would have brought the Federal Government an additional R$2.3 billion in RJU
contributions in 2000. Had the measures passed, they would have only applied to civil
servants in the Federal Executive Branch. However, many states have, on their own,
imposed social security contributions on their existing retirees. This move is being
threaten by the ruling of unconstitutionality by the Supreme Court. In November 1999,
the Government, with the support of the state governments, submitted a draft
Constitutional Amendment to Congress to make collection of contributions from all RJU
retirees (at the Federal and at the sub-national level) legal.
7 The January 1999 reform of the Federal RJU would have raised the pension contribution of workers
earning more than R$1200 per month from 11% to 20%, and for those earning more than R$2500 per
month to 25%. These same income thresholds were to also be applied to retirees from the Federal
executive branch receiving benefits. However, pensioners receiving less than R$600 a month were
exempted from contributing, as were the disabled and those aged over 70 receiving less than R$3000
per month. The new rates would have only applied to the federal executive branch, leaving the
contribution rates of civil servants in the judicial and legislative branches unaffected.



10
Advances Made in Reform of the Complementary Pension System SPC
24.   Political consensus in Brazil is gradually moving towards greater reliance on
employer provided, funded plans for old age support in the third pillar, for both workers
in the private as well as in the public sector. While funded pension plans in the
Complementary Pension System (SPC) manage over R$100 billion worth of assets,
coverage of funded pension plans remains low at about 5% of the workforce. This low
rate of participation, despite Brazil's relatively sophisticated capital market, is due to
inadequate regulation of the system, and the lack of tax incentives for retirement savings.
Constitutional Amendment 20/98 reformed the SPC system introducing rules to eliminate
or reduce the subsidization of the funds by public entities, improve their regulation, and
introduced full disclosure of information to plan participants. The provisions of the
Constitutional Amendment will be implemented through three Complementary Laws that
had to be presented to Congress within 3 month after the approval of the Constitutional
Amendment.  Progress in implementing the reforms to the SPC passed in the
Constitutional Amendment, has been significant. With technical and financial support
from the Bank and the IDB, the Administration has taken steps to encourage the creation
of more complementary funded schemes, including the set of well-designed rules for both
private and government sponsored pension funds, and plans to consolidate and strengthen
supervision.
25.   While not included in the set of reforms supported by the first S/SECAL, the
authorities have been involved in additional regulatory initiatives to strengthen the
Complementary Pension System. The SSPC is working jointly with the Brazilian Federal
Securities Commission and the Central Bank on a proposal to update asset management
requirements for institutional investors, including Complementary Pension Funds. The
new requirements would introduce rules for evaluation of acquired securities, improve
diversification of financial risks, and limit exposure to certain risks with the imposition of
portfolio ceilings by asset class. Additionally, the authorities are lobbying for key
reforms in the tax code to allow tax exemptions on retirement savings and the income
these earn from investment.8
D. THE SECOND PHASE OF PENSION REFORM
26.   The sustainability of the reforms supported by the First S/SECAL is likely, but
will depend critically on the success of the second and third phases of the Government's
reform  program.   Since the passage of Constitutional Amendment 20/98, the
Administration has taken important legislative steps to implement most of the parametric
reforms, and to prepare for more ambitious structural reforms. The most important
measure taken in the second phase of social security reform-to be supported by the
proposed Second S/SECAL--is the adoption of a new benefit formula for the RGPS,
s Almost all OECD countries have an "EET" model ("exempt, exempt, taxed"), where pension
contributions and investment retums are exempt for taxation, and only pension benefits are taxed.
The tax code in Brazil, in contrast, puts limits on such exemptions, and is unclear on how retirement
savings and their earnings are taxed. This is seen as one of the principal reasons for low rates of
participation in the voluntary plans, despite the relative sophistication of the capital market in Brazil
(World Bank, 1999).



11
which will eliminate the fiscal deficit of the RGPS system for a number of years
Secondary measures include the improvement of the regulatory framework of the
Complementary Pension System and advances in the restructuring of the INSS.
Measures to reduce the fiscal deficits of the RJU system will require another
Constitutional amendment, which is expected to be pursued under the third phase of
pension reform.
Importance of the Second Phase of Pension Reform
27.   For medium-term fiscal balance, social security is the most important issue in
Brazil.  Currently, the higher deficit is in the RJU system, but unless reformed, the
RGPS will soon become the biggest problem fiscally9. For labor market efficiency
reasons, reform of the RGPS could be more important even today, since it covers more
people (about 30 million contributors and 18 million pensioners) than the RJU (where
contributors and beneficiaries each number 3 million). For equity reasons, reform of the
RJU has a high priority because per capita subsidies are higher than in the RGPS, but
there is also considerable inequity within the RGPS. For poverty reasons, programs in
the RGPS that benefit rural workers, widows, the aged poor and the disabled need to be
protected from cuts during system-wide reforrms.
Main Elements of the Second Phase of Pension Reform
28.   The main elements of the second phase of pension reform include the following:
Main Reform: Enactment of Law No. 9876, of November 26, 1999, which
introduced a new formula for the calculation of pension benefits under the RGPS,
established new rules for contribution to the RGPS by self-employed persons, created
incentives for such persons to join the system, established higher fines for evasion
and incentives for debt settlement, and conditioned payment of family allowances
(sal&rio-familia) to children's school attendance.
Secondary Reforms: Submission of bills of law and issuing of Presidential Decrees
to strengthen the regulatory framework and administration of the RGPS and of the
Complementary Pension Funds System.
Main Reform: Introduction of a New Benefit Formula for the RGPS
29.   The most important measure in the Second Phase of Social Security Reform is the
introduction of a new benefit formula for the RGPS. Constitutional Amendment 20/98
eliminated the benefit formula from the text of Constitution and stated the need to
establish, through ordinary laws and regulations, a new benefit formula that would meet
the principles of fiscal and actuarial balancel. Ordinary Law No. 9876/99, approved on
November 26, 1999, introduce a new formula for the calculation of pension benefits in
the RGPS, and other improvements to the RGPS system. Regulation of this Law was
9 Although currently the fiscal deficit of the RJU is much larger than that of the RGPS, after 2015, the
deficit of the RGPS becomes larger than that of the RJU.
10 The new benefit formula applies to both, new entrants and current contributors.



12
approved in December 1999 through a Presidential Decree.  The new  formula
incrementally extends the reference wage to eventually include a worker's entire working
life, and establishes an endogenous accrual rate determined by years of contribution and
life expectancy at retirement for old and new entrants to the labor force.
30.   The new law establishes that the RGPS pensions should be based on the entire
work history but, to protect workers with highly variable earnings (such as women), the
average pension will be based on the 80% highest annual wages over the working life.
Under the new formula, pensions are now defined as Sb = M x f, where Sb is the pension
level, M is the average of the 80% highest contribution wages indexed by past inflation,
and f is an actuarial coefficient ("fator previdenciario"). The first part of the actuarial
coefficient formula equilibrates the contribution period of each insured worker to the
average time the benefit is received (life expectancy at retirement, by age). The second
part of the actuarial coefficient is a "bonus" given to insured workers, the size of which is
increased based on how long they have worked and the age at which they retire. For the
first time, therefore, conditions are being introduced to encourage workers to keep
working, even after meeting all the legal qualifications for retirement. A rule of
transition is included through a gradual application of the actuarial coefficient over five
years.
31.   The new actuarial coefficient applies to both RGPS schemes: the Length of
Service Pensions, and the Old Age Pensions. However, workers who qualify for an Old
Age Pension Scheme"I can choose to have the new formula applied to them only if the
actuarial coefficient is greater than one. In such case, the pensioner would receive a
higher pension with the new formula than with the old. In Brazil the Old Age Pensions
represent around 33% of all social security benefits and they are oriented toward the
lower income population. In rural areas, a large share of the family income derives from
old age and death pensions.
32.   The main positive points of the new benefit formula are the following:
*  tighter link between contributions and benefits. The new formula ties benefits to
contributions - workers who retire earlier will receive a lower pension than those who
stay in the labor force. Pensions will be based on a large part of work/contribution
history. Since the final RGPS pension will be calculated on 80% of a worker's best
salaries, there is less room in the new formula for strategic underreporting of wages;
* better actuarial balance. The internal rates of return estimates show that the new
formula takes steps toward correcting current actuarial imbalances in the RGPS; and
*  partial protection against demographic risk.  A portion of the new  formula
endogenously adjusts pensions by a retiree's life expectancy at the time of retirement.
This will partially protect the RGPS from demographic changes that typically
aggravate imbalances in rigid PAYG systems around the world.
To qualify for the Old Age pension scheme, a worker has to have contributed for 15 years and be 65
years old. Rural workers can retire five years earlier.



13
33.   The main shortcoming of the new formula is that it is complicated and difficult to
understand. Although this is true of the formulas applied in most PAYG systems, the
new formula with its 'fator previdencicario" (the actuarial coefficient) adds further
complications that make understanding difficult. Aware of the problem, the MPAS is
developing a web page that will help people to calculate their benefits.
34.   Fiscal effects of the new benefit formula for the RGPS. The World Bank's
Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit (PROST) was used to estimate the effects of
the reforms implemented to date. Figure 1 plots RGPS fiscal deficits as a share of GDP
under the base case (no reform), the amendment ending aposentadoria proporcional, and
the new benefit formula, using the following assumptions: (i) there is a drastic change in
retirement patterns, i.e. that women and men delay retirement until 60 and 65 years of
age, respectively; and (ii) 20% of women who retire at 48/53 years of age and of men
who retire at 60/65 years of age switch to the Old Age Scheme, whose eligibility
parameters are not modified by the reform and has only a 15 year contribution
requirement and slightly lower benefits. The switch causes a 10% drop in revenues and a
4% drop in expenditures.
Figure 1: Modeling of the Fiscal Effects of the New RGPS Benefit Formula
2% 
,, _                         ~~~~~                  ~~Yearl
0%
1  42006200    014 20~~16 2018 2020  026 2028 2030 2032 2034 2036 2038 2040 2042 2044 2046 2048 A  0
-2%
-4%
-6%/
-6%
-10%
-14%
+Fator Previdenciario       Constitutional Amendment  -  Base Case||
L.I
35.   Under the assumptions made, these simulations show sizeable fiscal savings from
the new benefit formula in the short, medium and long-term: the reformed RGPS shows a
fiscal balance by 2003, and the surplus rises to almost 1% of GDP by 2010, instead of a
deficit of 2% of GDP, without the reform. The RGPS returns to deficit again by 2020,
due to the effect of the aging of the population, but the deficit with reform is half the
deficit without reform. When the time comes, the Brazilian society will have to decide
on further reform measures and on the degree of fiscal subsidy that they are willing to
accept to provide an old age safety net.



14
36.   Sensitivity analysis shows that for the long-run finances of the system it is
relatively unimportant whether or not RGPS participants actually respond to the incentive
to work longer built into the new formula. The main reason for this relative "neutrality"
of fiscal outcomes to behavioral responses to the new formula is that these incentives are
almost actuarially fair, viz., the additional amounts workers will pay in as contributors if
they work longer sum up to roughly the expected additional amounts they will receive as
pension benefits. In fact, fiscal savings in the new benefit system come primarily from:
(i) reduction of the average replacement rate from about 100% of reference salaries to
about 70%-75% of current levels through the introduction of the new benefit formula,
and (ii) lengthening of the reference period gradually to (almost) the full working life.
Lengthening of the reference period also reduces benefits because reduced replacement
rates are applied to a reduced base. If implemented rigorously and if accompanied by a
tightening of the other RGPS programs - Old Age and Disability - the reforms promise
significant fiscal and labor market efficiency benefits.
Secondary Reforms for the RGPS
37.   Incentives to expand coverage among the self-employed Law  9876/99
introduced incentives to expand the system's coverage among the self-employed. One
incentive is the elimination of the wage-base scale. Before the new law was enacted, the
self-employed were forced to stay a minimum number of years in each level of the wage
scale. The new law introduced more flexibility, allowing contributions to increase or
decrease according to the worker's income. This measure is coherent with the new
benefit formula based on 80% of the highest contribution wages, as it permits the worker
to pay the highest contribution as possible in order to reach higher benefits after
retirement. Another important provision of the law involves the reduction of the
contribution for the self-employed when they are rendering services to firms. With this
new rule, the worker can lower his contribution rate from 20% to 11%. The contracting
firm must pay a social security contribution of 20%, calculated over the value of the
services agreed. This change facilitates the formalization of the relation between the self-
employed and companies, aiming at expanding the coverage of these emerging labor
relationships. According to the old law, entrepreneurs, the self-employed and optional
insured workers, did not qualify for maternity benefits. Law 9876/99 eliminates this
restriction. Finally, the Law reduces by 50% interest penalties on late contributions of
the self- employed. Workers who have not paid past contributions are now able to pay
them with an interest rate of 0.5% per month, instead of 1%. Lower penalties are
expected to be an incentive for workers to regularize their situation with the INSS. Law
9876/99 also conditioned payment of family allowances (salario-familia) to children's
school attendance.
38.   New Criteria for Temporary and Permanent Disability Program. The criteria
for temporary and permanent disability program were revised by Presidential Decree
3048/99, with the objective of avoiding fraud in the concession of disability benefits.
The Decree includes new rules for medical determination of eligibility, limiting
concession of disability benefits to cases where it is possible to establish a clear link
between the task performed by the worker and the related disease.



15
39.   Law of Crimes Against Social Security. The Administration submitted to
Congress bill of law No. 933/99, in May 1999. This law defines crimes against the social
security system and the corresponding penalties.
40.   Presidential Decree 3112, of July 6, 1999, regulates the financial compensation
that is required to be effected between the RGPS and theRJU, as a result of the transfer of
workers from one system to the other, after the promulgation of the Borrower's
Constitution. The Ministry of Social Security and Social Assistance (MPAS) has started
to pay the compensation owed by the RGPS to the specific pension regimes of the
Federal Government, States, Federal District and Municipalities. This payment derives
from the partial reimbursement of the retirement and death pensions, which were granted
to civil servants that had previous length of service in the INSS.
41.   The National Monetary Council has issued resolutions to guarantee the security
and solvency in the application of the funds with social security purposes, having the
Brazilian Central Bank as intermediary. Among the subjects regulated are the ways of
acquiring shares from companies that are linked to the social security funds, as well as
the application of sources derived from patrimony alienation that are linked to the funds
in the form of assets and rights of any nature.
42.   Restructuring of the INSS. Recent advances in INSS restructuring include: (i)
full consolidation of all social security and labor information registers under the Unified
Register of Social Information (CNIS), an important advance to improve control over
work histories and collections, and to establish individual contribution accounts; (ii)
adoption of a new organizational structure for INSS approved by the Executive and being
implemented; (iii) initiation of a review of temporary disability pensions; and (iv)
initiation of a program to improve attention to the public though a net of social security
agencies. A Bank learning and innovation loan supports the INSS restructuring efforts.
particularly in the area of strategic planing.
43.   Legislative initiatives under preparation.  The MPAS is in the process of
finalizing a draft law for a Worker's Injury Insurance Scheme. This bill of law will be
submitted to Congress probably in April/May 2000. This law would establish the legal
framework for private participation in injury risk insurance.  In addition, the
Administration plans to resubmit a bill of law that would reform Rural Workers Pensions.
This bill was submitted to Congress in September 1999 to introduce incentives for
formalization of rural labor force through the registration of farm workers and changes in
the formula to determine contributions of small and medium farms. Small and medium
farmers pay social security contributions based on a percentage of sales (2.1% or 2.6%)
and farmers pay contributions calculated as a percentage of wages (8 to 11%). With the
passage of this law, farmers will be able to deduct the contribution of their employees
from the firm's contribution. The bill of law was retired from Congress to introduce
changes to make it compatible with the new benefit formula.
Secondary Reforms for the Complementary Pension System
44.   The Government's progress to date in strengthening the Complementary Pension
System is very promising. From December 1998, when the Constitutional Amendment



16
was passed, authorities at the Secretariat for Complementary Pension System (SSPC)
were given three months to prepare and present three key Complementary Laws 2 to
Congress. The three Complementary Laws would: (i) modernize the institutional
framework of the SPC, originally established in 1977 (ii) establish the institutional
relationship between government bodies and complementary pension plans, as well as the
governance structure of the new funds and (iii) allow government as employer, at the
federal, state and municipal level, to establish complementary funds for civil servants to
supplement RJU benefits, and ensure equal regulatory requirements with those regulating
existing funds for private sector workers. State governments are especially keen on
setting up these funds for their employees.
45.   Funded plans are a new institutional vehicle to complement the retirement
incomes of civil servants that is gaining popularity among state governments. Funded
plans to supplement RJU benefits are being proposed, and state governments are
especially keen on offering these funds to employees. The Complementary Funds for
civil servants are promising from a political economy point of view, in that they allow
state governments to offer their workers a "new deal" consisting of lower but more
dependable pensions, rather than simply confronting them with a cut in their benefits.
The bulk of the Bank's technical advice for the second phase of the reform program is
being provided directly to the state governments, through a special unit in MPAS, to
evaluate the fiscal health of their RJU plans, and assist in the design and regulation of
new Complementary Funds. These funds would fall under the regulatory auspices of the
Secretariat for Complementary Pension System. In addition, a Resolution of the National
Monetary Council was issued in December 1999 to create a firewall between government
and pension funds.
46.   Complementary bill of law No. 63/99. This law consolidates the rules for the
complementary pension system, both open and closed funds, replacing Law No. 635/77.
This bill of law was submitted to Congress in March 1999 and approved by the Chamber
of Deputies on November 24, 1999 with a high degree of consensus. It is now in the
Senate, where it has already been approved by the Commission on Constitution and
Justice by unanimity of vote. The authorities expect that this law will receive full
Congressional approval in the next two months. The law, if approved, would establish
the rules for the functioning of the complementary pension fund system, and the
operation and supervision of the complementary pension entities. It would introduce new
vesting and benefit rules to protect workers' interests and allow portability of acquired
rights. Additionally, the law would allow organizations and entities, other than single
companies, to offer pension plans, extending the right to set up a complementary plan for
industry and trade associations as well as unions.
47.   Complementary bill of law No. 01/00.  This law regulates the institutional
relationship between the public sector (at the federal, state and municipal level) as
sponsor of pension plans and the management of the respective funds. This bill of law
12 The Brazilian legislative process distinguishes Complementary Laws from Ordinary Laws: while there is
not hierarchical distinction between the two kinds of law, the Complementary Laws require a special
quorum of deputies and senators to be present for a vote to be taken, and are, therefore, much more
difficult to pass in Congress.



17
was presented to Congress in March 1999, and approved by the Chamber by
overwhelming majority on December 16, 1999. The bill is now in the Senate where it
has been unanimously approved by the Commission on Constitution and Justice. The
authorities expect that this bill of law will receive full Congressional approval in the next
two months. If approved, the law would regulate the institutional relationship between
the public sector, at the federal, state and municipal level, as sponsor of pension plans and
the administration of the respective pension funds. It would set requirements for the
management of the Government Complementary Funds, establishing the principle of
"management parity" between the sponsoring employer and beneficiaries of the new
plans. The law also introduces guidelines for the administration of the plans, to avoid
conflicts of interest and misuse of the fumds.
48.    Complementary bill of law No. 09/99. This law establishes the rules for the
establishment and operation of complementary pension funds by the public sector direct
administration at the federal, state and municipal level. This bill was submitted to
Congress but not yet discussed. This law would require that the new government
sponsored complementary funds, regardless of at what level of government they are
established, to fall under the supervision of the Federal Secretariat of the Complementary
Pension System, currently within MPAS. The new funds would be required to meet the
same actuarial and disclosure guidelines as the rest of the plans in the system.
E. A FRAMEWORK FOR THE THIRD STAGE OF REFORM
49.    Despite the measures taken in the first phase in 1998 and in the second phase in
1999 and early 2000, Brazil's RJU system continues to suffer from critical structural
weaknesses. The fiscal and equity challenges of restructuring publicly provided pensions
are many and formidable, and the list of reforms necessary to ensure the long term fiscal
balance and sustainability of social security is both technically and politically demanding.
An important aspect of the Government's strategy for further pension reform is the
development of a public communications strategy aimed at increasing public awareness
of the great inequalities between the RJU and RGPS systems and the negative social
effects of the Government having to use general taxes to meet the growing deficits of the
RJU system, at the expense of financing other social programs.
Reform Measures for the RJU Under Consideration
50.    The pension regime for civil servants continues to be a mounting burden on
Brazil's public resources. The reform of the RJU will be the centerpiece of the third
phase of pension reform. This does not mean that the Government is not currently taking
actions to reform the RJU 3. In fact, the Government has already taken some important
initiatives in this respect. Some of the proposed reforms include:
13 The Fiscal Responsibility Law, recently approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and expected to be
supported by the Fiscal and Administrative Reform S/SECAL, will have important implications for
the fiscal health of the RJU. The objective of this law is to impose fiscal discipline on state and
municipal governments, by imposing penalties on officials who breach established spending limits.
The law, if approved, would promote fiscal balance and transparency in the civil servant pension



18
51.    Increase in RJU Contributions. Although disappointed by the Supreme Court's
decision in September 1999, the Government has responded with plans for a flat increase
of Federal RJU contributions from active civil servants from the current 11% to as much
as 14%.
52.    Constitutional Amendment to introduce pension contributions by RJU retirees.
The Administration has, with the support of 24 state governors, submitted a second
constitutional amendment to Congress in November 1999, that would legalize the
collection of contributions from retired RJU workers.
53.    The Hauly Amendment. A recently added clause to the draft Amendment (the
Hauly Amendment) would require that all new hires into the civil service accrue pension
benefits under the parameters of the RGPS. This would, over time, effectively close the
RJU and unify the two pension regimes into a single system, which is one of the reform
program's most important long term goals. This is a necessary step in the reform process
that will staunch the growth of new unfunded liabilities and contribute to greater equity
between the pension systems of the private and public sectors. The significance of this
proposed reform is noteworthy, even though the transition period between the time when
the current generation of entitled civil servants stop receiving RJU benefits, and when the
majority of government workers are entitled only to benefits under the RGPS, will be
quite long.
54.    ConstitutionalAmendment to change the RJU benefitformula. The proposal to
eliminate the benefit formula for the RJU system was not approved by the Constitutional
Amendment of December 1998. However, the amendment mandates that all pension
systems should be actuarially and fiscally balanced. It is difficult to envisage how this
requirement could be accomplished without a new benefit formula that links benefits to
contributions.  Changing the benefit formula would require another Constitutional
amendment.
55.    The Supreme Court's ruling against the January 1999 reform  package is an
indication of the formidable challenges to reform, and renders very difficult the
Government's plans for deeper, structural reforms to the RJU. Having learned from that
defeat that public support for the reformns is crucial, the Administration is in the process
of developing a public information and communication strategy to inform social security
stakeholders about the inequalities of the current system and the implications for society
of the large RJU deficits, in the hope of eliciting support for the third phase of reforms.
The ultimate objective of the Government's reform program is to unify the public and
private sector regimes.
accounts by: (i) requiring civil servant pension funds at every level of government to submit actuarial
analysis during budget process and to publish quarterly reports of the pension accounts; (ii) making
explicit the rate of accumulation of pension liabilities in the budget process; (iii) separating pension
accounts from other public accounts; (iv) establishing that pension fund reserves have to be invested;
and (v) restricting the creation of unfunded benefits.



19
Reform Measures for the Complementary Pension System Under Consideration
56.   The Administration's objective is to move towards greater reliance on the
Complementary System. However, to make complementary funds viable for civil
servants, the current parameters of the RJU regime will have to be changed before these
funds are created, particularly the guaranteed full income replacement for retired civil
servants.
57.   To the degree that workers begin to rely more on the Complementary System for
retirement income than on the publicly administered first pillar, the SSPC's supervisory
and regulatory responsibilities will grow. The Secretariat of the Complimentary Pension
System, currently a branch of INSS within MPAS, is actively pursuing a greater degree
of autonomy from the social security system as a new national agency. The SSPC
believes greater independence would increase its efficiency, and allow it to compete with
the private sector in recruiting and retaining staff with essential actuarial and financial
expertise. The new national agency would operate along the lines of similar regulatory
agencies in the Region - the Private Pension Fund Superintendencies in Chile and in
Argentina (SAFP and SAFJP) and National Retirement Savings Commission in Mexico
(CONSAR).  The establishment of a new, independent regulatory body for the
Complementary System is considered one of the Administration's most important long
term goals in restructuring of the old-age security system in Brazil. A draft bill of law for
the creation of a single regulatory agency (Agencia Nacional de Previdencia
Complementar- ANPC) has been sent to the Presidency for review.
III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ON PENSION REFORM
58.   The Framework Paper: Special Program of Support for Brazil (SecM98-943) of
November 25, 1998, that preceded the first Social Security Special Sector Adjustment
Loan, outlined the Bank's overall Special Support Program for Brazil. It proposed a
US$4.5 billion package of sector adjustment loans to Brazil until end FY2001 at special
pricing and maturity, plus 1% front-end fee. The Framework Paper noted that the 1997
CAS (discussed in the Board on June 12, 1997) and the 1998 CAS Progress Report
(discussed on June 2, 1998) acknowledged that Brazil could be subject to external
shocks. In such an eventuality, if the Government responded with corrective policy
measures, the CAS proposed to respond quickly with financial support for reforms in
such areas as privatization, social security, and safety nets.  The external shock
materialized in late 1998, and the Government responded with a strong reform program
in the area of social security to improve the long-term actuarial balance of the system,
which accounts for two thirds of the fiscal deficit.
59.   The first two S/SECALs were presented to the Board on January 6, 1999, one for
Social Protection Reform (US$252.52 million) and the other for Social Security Reform
(US$757.57 million). The Social Security S/SECAL supported the first phase of pension
reform which consisted of passage of an amendment to the Federal Constitution of 1988,
and the adoption of a number of emergency measures to reduce the fiscal deficit of the



20
pension regime for public-sector workers. The Federal Constitution of 1988 established
the parameters of the pension system with no explicit link to the principle of actuarial and
fiscal balance and to the need to maintain equity between pensions in the private and
public sectors. Amendment of the 1998 Constitution was a prerequisite for any further
pension reform. The Bank also supported the program of Social Security reform with
two Learning and Innovation Loans: one in support of the use of actuarial models by
states to diagnose the nature and severity of their pension problems, and the other in
support of new solutions for the restructuring of Brazil's pension administration agencies
(INSS and SPC), and for the design of the new pension rules through the application of
actuarial models to determine new parameters consistent with the principle of actuarial
balance.
60.   The Framework Paper indicated that a Second Social Security S/SECAL and a
follow up social protection loan would be presented to the Board at a second stage. The
Second Social Security S/SECAL would support the implementation of the Constitutional
Amendment through enabling legislation, which would determine, to a large extent, the
scope of the reforms made possible by the amendment. Brazil has successfully met the
IMF targets and has made substantial drawings from the Fund, the bilaterals and IDB. In
light of the much better than expected recovery of the Brazilian economy, the authorities
have indicated their interest to draw only a further US$1.5 billion under the special
support program, and to let the remaining US$2 billion lapse.
61.   Accordingly, the current plan is to proceed with special S/SECALs in two
remaining areas: Administrative and Fiscal Reform (two single tranche loans are
envisaged) and Social Security Reform. The proposed Second S/SECAL for US$505.06
million would support the second phase of pension reform which consists primarily of the
adoption of a new benefit formula for the RGPS system. In addition, it supports a
number of laws recently submitted to Congress which, if approved (some of them have
been already approved by the Chamber), would improve the legal framework of the
RGPS, and improve the regulation of the Complementary Pension Funds. The reform of
the RJU, envisaged for the third phase of reforms, could be supported by regular
adjustment loans as discussed in the CAS.
62.   Justification for Adjustment Lending. The Bank loan would help Brazil meet its
external financing requirements, while the proposed reform program will assist Brazil's
efforts at medium term fiscal adjustment. During the year 2000, Brazil's current account
deficit is expected to amount to about $23 billion dollars, of which $3.5 are expected to
come from multilateral institutions. The Bank's financial assistance will help Brazil meet
its external financing requirements. Moreover, the loan will help meet the federal
government's financing requirement of about R$16 billion, and will also help lengthen
the term structure of the public sector's debt, which would reduce vulnerability to
financial shocks.
Analytical Work in Support of Brazil's Pension Reforms
63.   The Bank's involvement in Brazil's pension reform has been underway since
1992. Recent products include:



21
64.   Policy reports. The Bank support for pension reform is based on a strong
analytical effort in the social security/labor area. A number of reports have been
prepared to facilitate dialogue with the Government as follows:
*  Brazil: A Simulative Look at the General Regime for Social Security (RGPS).
August 15, 1998
*  Brazil: A Simulative Look at the Pension Regime for Civil Servants (RJUs).
February, 1999
*  Brazil: Pension Funds for Government Workers - Design Choices and Fiscal
Implications. May 1999.
*  Brazil: A Diagnosis of the Complementary Pension System. June 1999.
*  The preceding analyses have been synthesized in: Brazil: Critical Issues in Social
Security. Draft Report No. 19641-BR, November, 1999.
65.   RJU quantitative assessments. Assessments financed by a LIL, using the
PROST model as benchmark, to help federal and state governments update information
base, undertake actuarial assessments, identify priorities, and monitor changes.
66.   RGPS and SCP institutional strengthening. Another LIL, supports enabling
legislation and regulation for implementing recent reforms, the development of strategic
plans for the restructuring of the INSS, the institution that administers the RGPS, and the
SPC, the agency that regulates and supervises complementary pension funds.
B. COORDINATION WITH MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS
67.   The policy reforms supported under this operation are consistent with the IMF-
coordinated Multilateral Support Program for Brazil, which includes the World Bank, the
Inter-American Development Bank, and a large group of European, North American and
Asian bilateral lenders.  Bank staff have participated in IMF missions to ensure
consistency of short-term fiscal measures with long-term structural reforms. Bank staff
have also cooperated more specifically on aspects of social security reform.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. LOAN OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
68.   The proposed Second Social Security S/SECAL would be a US$505.06 million
single tranche loan in support of the second phase of the Government's pension reform
program, which centers in the reform of the RGPS system. A first Social Security
S/SECAL (a single tranche loan of US$757.57 million) was approved on January 6, 1999
in support of the first phase of the Government's pension reform program centered on
Congressional approval, in December 1998, of a Constitutional amendment that modified
clauses in Brazil's Constitution that were largely responsible for the imbalances of the
pension systems, and opened the way for further pension reforms. The proposed Second



22
Social Security S/SECAL and the First Social Security S/SECAL are part of the World
Bank's program of special support for Brazil's Program of Fiscal Stabilization and
Reforms. The Government's reform effort is designed to address the structural causes of
its fiscal deficit and to restrain the growth of public debt, in order to both strengthen
market confidence and permit a sustainable reduction in interest rates. The proceeds of
the loan will help Brazil meet its external financing requirements. It is expected that the
Bank will support with additional adjustment lending the Government's third phase of
pension reforms that would deepen the reform of the RJU system.
B. COMMITMENTS UNDER THE PROPOSED LOAN
69.   Letter of Sector Development Policy. The Brazilian authorities have submitted
to the Bank a Letter of Development Policy describing the Government's strategy for the
second and third stages of pension reform.
Tranche Conditions
70.   The proposed loan would be disbursed in one tranche upon loan effectiveness in
support of up front measures already taken by the Brazilian authorities to implement the
second stage of pension reform, in the following areas:
I.   Fiscal Stability Program:
Fiscal Stability Program on track. 1999 Primary Surplus target of 3.1% of GDP
successfully achieved. Net Public Sector Debt declined to 47.0% of GDP in
December 1999.
Targets for 2000/01 are:
- Public Sector Primary Surpluses to increase to 3.25%, and 3.35% of GDP
respectively in 2000, 2001;
 Net Public Sector Debt to declined to 47.0% in December 1999 and to 46.5% of
GDP by year 2001.
II.  Main Reform:
Entry into force of Law No. 9876, of November 26, 1999, which introduced a new
formula for the calculation of pension benefits under the RGPS, established new
rules for contribution to the RGPS by self-employed persons, created incentives for
such persons to join the system, established higher fines for evasion and incentives
for debt settlement, and conditioned payment of family allowances (salario-
familia) to children's school attendance.
III. Secondary Reforms:
Additional Reforms of the RGPS:
* Submission to the Borrower's Congress of Bill of Law No. 933/99, which
defines crimes against the RGPS, and establishes the corresponding penalties
therefor.



23
*: Issuance of Presidential Decree No. 3112, of July 6, 1999, which regulates the
financial compensation that is required to be effected between RGPS and the
social security system for the public sector workers as a result of the transfer of
workers from one system to the other, after the promulgation of the Borrower's
Constitution.
* Issuance by the Borrower's National Monetary Council of Resolutions:
(a) No. 2651, of September 23, 1999, which regulates the acquisition by any
financial institution fully owned by the Borrower of shares of sub-national
companies allocated to pension funds of the States and Municipalities. The
term "sub-national companies" means companies controlled by the States and
Municipalities, which are included in privatization programs; and
(b) No. 2652, of September 23 1999, which regulates investments of pension
funds instituted by the Borrower, the States and the Municipalities.
*. Issuance of the Presidential Decree No. 3048, of May 6, 1999, which approved
the new regulation of RGPS, including, inter alia, a revised criteria for
eligibility under workers' temporary and permanent disability programs.
v Consolidation under one information system of all registers regarding workers
under the RGPS; approval and implementation of a new organizational
structure for INSS; implementation of re-certification of workers' temporary
disability pensions; and launching of a program to improve attention to the
public through establishment of new service agencies by INS S.
Additional Reforms of the Complementary Pension System
Submission to the Borrower's Congress of the following Bills of Complementary
Laws:
*: Senate No. 63/99, which establishes the rules for the functioning of the
complementary pension fund system, and the operation and supervision of the
complementary pension entities14;
* Senate No. 01/00, which regulates the institutional relationship between the
public direct administration of the Borrower, at the federal, State and
14 Submitted to the Borrower's Congress, in March 1999 and approved by the Chamber on November 24,
1999.



24
Municipality level, as sponsor of complementary pension funds, and the
administration of their respective pension funds' 5; and
*. House of Representatives No. 09/99, which establishes the rules for the
establishment and operation of complementary pension funds by the public
direct administration of the Borrower, at the federal, State and Municipality
level'6.
C.  DISBURSEMENTS AND AUDITS
71.   The loan would disburse under the Bank's provisions for fast disbursing
operations, which require no procurement of goods or services. The flow of the proceeds
from the loan would be as follows
* The Bank deposits the proceeds in the Government's account at Bank do Brasil, New
York;
* The proceeds enter into the Central Bank's of Brazil's International Reserves Account,
denominated in dollars;
* The Central Bank enters the counterpart proceeds, denominated in domestic currency,
into the Government's account at the Central Bank (the Conta Unica do Tesouro). This
account earns the average yield of Treasury bills at the Central Bank;
* The Conta Unica do Tesouro has a classification of funds by revenue source. The
domestic currency proceeds at the Government's account at the Central Bank (Conta
Unica do Tesouro) are classified as Resources from Foreign Credit (account item No.
148);
* Expenditure of the proceeds from the loan at the Conta Unica do Tesouro is
earmarked, in the Federal Budget, for repayment of federal external debt;
* To repay debt, the Government uses the earmarked domestic currency proceeds in its
Central Bank account to purchase the required dollars from a bank;
* The procedures described above are subject to Ministry of Finance internal controls
(Secretaria Federal de Control) and to external controls by the Accounts Tribunal.
72.   Independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank may audit the Deposit Account.
Copies of the Deposit Account audits will be submitted to the Bank no later than four
months after the date of the Bank's request for such audits. The loan Closing Date would
be December 31, 2000.
15 Submitted to the Borrower's Congress, in March 1999, and approved by the Chamber on December 16,
1999.
16 Submitted to the Borrower's Congress, in March 1999.



25
D. IMPACT, BENEFITS AND RISKS
73.   Social Impact. Within Brazil's social security system there is an impressive
social protection subprogram that covers the old age population and rural workers and
this subprogram has not been changed. The reforms to the RGPS passed in 1998, and the
reforms implemented in 1999, under the second phase of pension reform are progressive
by design. They target the parameters of the Length of Service Pension Program -
largely corresponding to urban, male, formal sector workers. The eligibility and benefit
parameters of the Old Age Pension Program, mostly for the poor, women and for rural
workers, are not affected by the reforms, and are in fact protected. To receive an Old Age
Pension, a person must have contributed for 15 years and be 65 years or older. Rural
workers can retire under the Old Age Program five years earlier (60 years for men and 55
years for women). Although the actuarial coefficient (fator previdenciario) can be used
to calculate the Old Age Pension, the worker can choose to have the new formula applied
only if the application of the actuarial coefficient results in a higher pension with the new
formula than with the old. Also, there is a minimum wage past which the new formula
will not be applied to calculate retirement benefits. Since the majority of Old Age
pension beneficiaries make the minimum wage, the parameters of their pensions are not
changed. In Brazil the Old Age Pensions represent about one third of all social security
benefits. About 80% of the beneficiaries of the Old Age Pension Program are women,
while only 20% of the beneficiaries of the Length of Service Pension Program are
women. Similarly, almost all urban pensioners are in the Length of Service Pension
Program, while 2/3rds of all rural pensioners are in the Old Age Pension Program. The
poor benefit the most from special concessions in the regime for rural workers. The
authorities fully recognize the importance of preserving the Old Age Pension Program as
a safety net in Brazil. A recent study by a Government agency shows that families with
Old Age pensioners have, on average, 14.5% higher income than families without them,
and that Old Age pensioners contribute, on average, to about 52% of their family's
income. The MPAS authorities are, nevertheless, concerned about the social impact of
the reforms and have commissioned a study of the poverty impact of the completed
RGPS reform17. The results will be presented at a national workshop.
74.   Benefits.  The second phase of pension reform  in Brazil represents an
intermediate stage in the reform of the country's pension systems, a task that will
continue during the third phase of pension reform. The adoption of a new benefit
formula for the RGPS in this second phase is an important reform which will
significantly reduce the fiscal deficit of the RGPS system. This will contribute to fiscal
adjustment which, in turn, will improve the prospects of rapid growth and low inflation,
important elements for poverty reduction. The adoption of a new benefit formula for the
RGPS has other important implications: it links benefits to the individual's contribution
period, contribution rate and life expectancy; protects against demographic changes; and
reduces labor market distortions. Also, the creation of a modern regulatory framework for
pension funds in the public and the private sector will have a major impact on the
development of these funds as a third pension pillar, to compensate for the adoption of
more affordable pension benefits in the future.
17 With financing from a PHRD Grant.



26
75.   Risks. There are risks to the macro program that underlies this operation, as well
as to the program of social security reformns. With respect to the risks to the macro
program, there is the risk that the public sector balance and debt targets may not be fully
attained due to various reasons, including higher interest rates on the public debt and
successful domestic pressures for additional expenditures (e.g., salary increases due to an
excessive salary ceiling), and insufficient adjustment of personnel expenditures at the
state level. The Government is making every effort, thus far successful, to ensure that
targets are met but these efforts could be undermined by factors outside its control. A
program of fiscal and administrative reform (to be supported by another S/SECAL) is one
of the efforts that have been put in place to help the public sector attain its financial
targets. The Government has a good track record of reacting to crises. It is expected that
any possible deviation from attaining public sector balance and debt targets is likely to
trigger additional actions by the Government (e.g., mandatory administrative leave,
dismissals of non-tenured employees) including strong enforcement of remedies for non-
compliance with personnel expenditure limits at the sub-national level. Finally, there are
also external risks, which have been the most disruptive in the last two years.
76.   The risks to the social security reform program are moderate, because the main
reform-the adoption of a new benefit formula for the RGPS-has already been
approved. However, as is common with this type of reform, the new benefit formula
could be subject to legal challenges. The likelihood that these challenges will be
successful are considered to be low for the following reasons. First, the administration
has demonstrated its commitment to maintain the main elements of its reform program in
the face of any possible legal challenges. Second, the reform is supported by the
Constitutional Amendment approved in December 1998, which establishes the
requirement that pension systems be actuarially and fiscally balanced. Furthermore, the
Government has all the incentives to counter any challenges in order to continue giving a
signal to foreign markets that it is able to contain fiscal deterioration. The risk that
Congress will not approve some of the bills of law presented in this phase (to improve the
regulation of the RGPS and the Complementary Pension System) is low because they are
not highly controversial and some of them have already been approved by the Chamber.
77.   Looking at the next phase of pension reform, there is the possibility that the
Administration may not be able to go ahead with all aspects of the reforms of the RJU,
some of which require additional amendments to the Constitution. The different
measures being proposed by the Government confront different levels of risk. For
example, the risks involved in reducing the pension benefits or raising contributions of
the current civil servants are higher than the risks of reducing the benefits of future civil
servants, which is what the Hauly amendment proposes (it proposes that new hires into
the civil service be included only under the RGPS). But, in the long run, the Hauly
amendment is probably more important because it could lead to a convergence of both
pension systems towards the RGPS. The risks to further RJU reforms are mitigated by
the mandate of the first Constitutional Amendment that all pensions systems (including
the RJU) be actuarially and fiscally balanced. Also, the Administration has demonstrated
a strong commitment to this reform by presenting to Congress a Constitutional
Amendment allowing for the payment of pension contributions by RJU retirees, a
measures strongly supported by state governors. Furthermore, in the next several
months, the Administration will try to mitigate this risk through a public communications



27
campaign aimed at increasing public awareness about the great inequalities between the
RJU and RGPS systems, and the negative social effects of the Government having to use
general taxes to meet the growing deficits of the RJU system at the expense of financing
other social programs.
V. RECOMMENDATION
78.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfenson
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D. C.
Attachments



Brazil: Second Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, S/SECAL II
Policy Reform Program
OBJECFTIVES        FIRST PIIASE AC(TIONS SU PPORTED WIT1I            SECOND PIIASE ACTIONS SuPPORTED WriTH                        ACTIONS EXPECTED) IN TlIRDi 1PHASE
FIRST S/SECAI.- SINGLE TRANCIIE                   SECOND SISECAI. - SINGLE TRANCHIE                               __E_
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICYFRAMEWORK
Maintenance of       Sound macroeconomic framework consistent with    Fiscal Stability Program on track.                         Fiscal Stability Program in Place:
Supportive           policy objectives and program described in Letter    Public Sector Primary Surplus target of 3.1% of GDP    Public Sector Primary Surpluses to increase to 3.1%,
Macroeconomic        of Sector Policy                                achieved;. Net Public Sector Debt declined to 47.0% of GDP  3.25%, and 3.35% of GDP respectively in 1999, 2000,
Program                                                              in December 1999.                                           2001. Target exceeded in 1999
Targets for 2000/01:
-Public Sector Primary Surplus to increase to 3.25%, and   Net Public Sector Debt to decline to 46.5% of GDP by
3.35% of GDP respectively in 2000, 2001.                   the year 2001
-Net Public Sector Debt to decline to 46.5% of GDP by year
2001                                                        Continued progress in improving fiscal performance at
the state level
Z REFORA OF THE PENSION SYSTEM FOR PRIVA TE SECTOR WORKERS, RGPS
Improve Long-term    APPROVED CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT:              ll. MAIN REFORM                                            Poverty impact of the new RGPS benefit formula.
Fiscal Health/Reduce   Congress approved an amendment to the                                                                     MPAS authorities present studies estimating the
Fiscal Deficit       Constitution that introduced key legislative reforms  New Benefit Formula for the RGPS                     poverty impact of the new RGPS benefit formula, with
to the social security system in December 1998.  Entry into force of Law No.9876, of November 26, 1999,    special attention to impact on households headed by
The amendment:                                 which introduced a new formula for the calculation of the   women. Results to be presented at national
V   Removed the definition of the pension benefit  pension benefits under the RGPS, and introduces other   workshop(s).                                        oo
calculation from the Constitution          improvements to the system. Regulation of this Law was
V   Eliminated most special pension regimes    approved in December 1999 through two Presidential
except that for school teachers and some risky   Decrees and supporting administrative acts. The Law does
occupations (restricting to actual performance   the following:
of hazardous activities)Adopted years-of-  V   Introduced a formula with a Fator Previdenciario that
contributions instead of years-of-service for  adjusts pension benefits to time of contribution and life
benefit eligibility                            expectancy at time of retirement. This Fator applies to
/   Eliminated early retirement provision with a    old and new entrants to the labor force;
partial pension (70%), with transition rules  /   Established new rules for contribution to the RGPS by
   Set a monthly benefit ceiling at Rs$1,200,     self-employed persons and created incentives for such
indexed to inflation                           persons to join the system;
/   Opened the work injury insurance program to    /   Established higher fines for evasion and incentives for
private sector                                 debt settlement;
Permitted income tax to be charged on
permitteand incomertax  benchrge on        V   Conditioned payment of family allowances to children's
pension and survivor's benefits of persons     school attendance
over 65 years old
/   Expands concept of contribution for social  II. SECONDARY REFORMS OF THE RGPS
security to all work related earnings      Submission to the Borrower's Congress of Bill of Law No.
933/99, on May 9, 1999, which defines crimes against the
RGPS and establishes the corresponding penalties.
Annex 1, Page I of 4



Brazil: Second Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, S/SECAL II
Policy Reform Program
l I _]il . i ] I : ] ! i _ S iI  II
Issuance of Presidential Decree No. 3112 of July 6, 1999,
which regulates the financial compensation that is required to
be effected between RGPS and the RJUs, as a result of the
transfer of workers from one system to the other, after the
promulgation of the 1988 Constitution
Issuance by the National Monetary Council of Resolutions:
V   No. 2651 of September 23, 1999, which regulated the
acquisition by any financial institution fully owned by
the Borrower of shares of sub-national companies
allocated to pension funds of the States and
Municipalities. The term "sub-national companies"
means companies controlled by the States and
Municipalities, which are included in the privatization
programs; and
V   (b) No. 2652 of September 23, 1999, which regulates
investments of pension funds instituted by the
Borrower, the States and the Municipalities
Issuance of Presidential Decree No. 3048, of May 6, 1999,
which approved the new regulation of the RGPS, including,
inter alia, a revised criteria for eligibility under workers'
temporary and permanent disability programs
irove INSS       Measures taken:                               Advances in INSS RESTRUCTURING                           Further Advances in INSS restructuring
ministration      Measures to improve contribution collection by  V   Consolidation under one information system of all  V   Master Plan for Computer-based Systemization
INSS in effect, including: :                     registers regarding workers under the RGPS;               being implemented;
acceleration of administrative collections;  V   Approval and implementation of a new organizational  V   Benchmarks on efficiency, revenue collection,
adoption of new questionnaires to collect    structure for INSS;                                      reduction of fraud met
individualized information of worker's labor    V   Implementation of re-certification of workers temporary  V   General Previdence Fund created-
and contribution history;                    disability pensions;                                 V   Program to improve attention to the public fully
v/  implementation of new system to follow up  Y/  Launching of a program to improve attention to the     implemented
the largest 10,000 contributors.             public though the establishment of new service agencies  V   Fraud control unit in INSS created
by the INSS                                          V   Social communications strategy being
implemented
v/ New criteria and system for disability program
implemented in all states
RJU: REFORM OF TIE PENSIONSSYS TEAlFOR PUBLICSECTOR WORKERS
prove Long-term   APPROVED CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT:          1                                                          Reduction of fiscal deficit of RJU and improvement
,cal Health,      Makes the RJU system contribution-based,                                                               of pension fairness by:
duce Fiscal       observing criteria that preserves financial and
Annex 1, Page 2 of 4



Brazil: Second Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, S/SECAL II
Policy Reform Program
c.WjJ'l',          I IRST PIASE ACTI'IONS SUPPORTED WITIh             SECOND PIIASE ACTIONS SUFIPORTl ED WIT11                     ACt lIONS EXPECTlED IN TIllRD Pi IAS.
0       FIRS T S/SECAL - SINCLET RANCIIE                   SECOND SISCC)?L, - SINGLE TRANCilE
ficit, and Improve   actuarial balance
uity               /   Introduces retirement based on years-of-                                                                    Imposing contributions to retirees'
contributions instead of years-of-service                                                              v/  Increasing contributions of active workers
/   Introduces minimum tenure to be eligible for                                                           v   Requiring new entrants to participate only in
retirement: 10 years in government, and 5                                                                  the RGPS system
years in current position                                                                                  th ngPa sem
/   Eliminates the possibility of collecting                                                                     e Adopting a new benefit formula for RJU
multiple pensions and of simultaneously                                                                     pensions to conform to principle of actuarial and
collecting salaries and pensions                                                                           fiscal balance2
/   Fixes minimum retirement age 53/48 (M/W)                                                               V   Introduction of means test and age limit for
with transition rule for gradual increase to                                                               survivor pensions
60/55 (M/W)                                                                                            /  Revision of criteria for temporary and permanent
Allows the establishment of complementary                                                                  disability program
pension funds by the federal government,
states and municipalities
. Eliminates early retirement provision with
partial pension with transition rules
/   Permits an income tax to be charged on
pension and survivor's benefits of persons                                                                                                                 o
over 65 years old
V Introduces ceiling on benefits equal to the
highest civil-service salary permitted
APPROVED GENERAL PUBLIC PENSION LAW:
v   Ends special pension systems for
municipalities with less than a specified
minimum of participants
   Introduces automatic adjustment of
contributions when total pension payments
minus contributions exceed a determined share
of current revenues of states and
municipalities
V Establishes a ratio of maximum employer
contribution to employee contribution of 2:1
V Forbids benefits not included in the RGPS
system                                                                                              _
In November 1999, the administration submitted to Congress a Constitutional amendment which, if approved, would reduce the fiscal deficit of the federal pension system by
requiring pensioners to pay social security contributions. The Hauly Amendment (incorporated into above law): All new hires into government, will be eligible for RGPS but not
RJU benefits.
2 Changing the benefit formula of the RJU would require a Constitutional Amendment.
Annex I, Page 3 of 4



Brazil: Second Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, S/SECAL II
Policy Reform Program
V   Establishes penalties on states, Federal District
and municipalities for failure to comply with
established regulations
V' Regulates maximum ratios between employer
and employee contributions, and automatic
adjustment of contributions, to be reflected in
draft budgets for 1999
REFORM OF THE COMPLEMEN)TARYPENSION FUND SYSTEMf
hen           APPROVED CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT:              111. Secondary Reforms of Complementary Pension            Constitutional amendment implemented by the
tory           V   Forbids public sector entities to contribute  System                                                  establishment of complementary pension funds at the
vork of and        more than employees (1: 1 ratio) to                                                                   level of. Federal Government, states, municipalities
:e Role of         complementary pension funds, within two    Submission to Congress of the following Bills of           and trade associations
ementary           years of approval of the Constitutional    Complementary Law
n System           Amendment                                                                                             Establishment of single regulatory agency to regulate
V   Eliminates fiscal subsidies to complementary    V   (a) Senate No. 63/99 (submitted to Congress in March  closed and open pension funds ANPC
pension funds of public enterprises            1999 and approved by the Chamber November 24,          (A bill of law for the establishment of a new agency the
/   Forbids contribution of resources of public    1999), which establishes the rules for the functioning of  ANPC has been sent to the President)
sector entities to complementary pension funds  the complementary pension fund system, and the
except as sponsors                             operation and supervision of the complementary pension
V   Requires complementary pension funds           entities;
sponsored by public sector entities to revise  i   (b) Senate No. 01/00, (submitted to Congress in March
benefit plans and adjust them actuarially to   1999 and approved by the Chamber December 16,
assets, within two years of Constitutional     1999), which regulates the institutional relationship
Amendment                                      between the public direct administration of the
Borrower, at the federal, State and Municipality level, as
sponsor of complementary pension funds, and the
administration of their respective pension funds
V (c) House of Representatives No. 09/99, (submitted to
Congress but not yet discussed), which establishes the
rules for the establishment and operation of
complementary pension funds by the public direct
administration of the Borrower at the federal, State, and
Municipality level
Annex I, Page 4 of 4



32
ANNEX II
REFORMING SOCIAL SECURITY
FOR PRIVATE SECTOR WORKERS IN BRAZIL
I. THE RGPS AND THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT OF 1998
1.   The national social security system for workers in the private sector (Regime Geral
da Previde^ncia Social - RGPS), administered by the Federal Government's National
Social Security Institute (INSS), pays pension, disability and survivor benefits to 18
million Brazilians, and receives mandatory contributions from about 60 million of the
country's workers - about half of the labor force. As in other countries in Latin America
that ran unfunded pay-as-you-go (PAYG) pension regimes, the imbalance in the social
security accounts is a dominant factor in Brazil's weak fiscal position and financial
vulnerability. However, unlike other PAYG systems in the region and around the world,
imbalances in Brazil's pension regimes were aggravated by constitutionally-guaranteed
full income replacement (100% of average of last 3 years salaries), and the absence of a
minimum age at which workers could begin to receive retirement benefits.
2.   The first phase of the Cardoso Administration's pension reform program centered
on Congressional approval of a Constitutional Amendment modifying those clauses in
the 1988 Constitution which were responsible for the current fiscal problems of the
system. The primary objective of the amendment was to loosen the constitutional
constraints on the social security systems and allow reforms that would stabilize the
growing pensions deficit. The Constitutional Amendment: removed the definition of the
benefit formula for the RGPS from the 1988 Constitution; eliminated most special
pension regimes; adopted years-of-contributions for benefit eligibility; eliminated early
retirement with a partial pension; set a ceiling on retirement benefits indexed to inflation;
expanded the contribution base to all work-related earnings; and allowed income taxes to
be levied on pension and survivor benefits. Although originally included in the
Amendment, the introduction of a minimum retirement age for private sector workers
failed to pass in Congress. The passage of the Constitutional Amendment in 1998, Brazil
opened the door for further reforms - specifically, the design of a new benefit formula to
calculate the pensions of covered private sector workers.
II. THE NEW BENEFIT FORMULA FOR THE RGPS
3.   As part of the Government's second phase of social security reforms to build on the
momentum of the 1998 Amendment Ordinary Law No. 9876/99 introducing a new
formula for the calculation of pension benefits in the RGPS, was approved on November
26, 1999. The new formula incrementally extends the reference wage to eventually
include a worker's entire working life, and establishes an endogenous accrual rate
determined by years of contribution and life expectancy at retirement.  The
administration's own calculations show that the new benefit formula slows and
eventually stabilizes the growth of the RGPS deficit. The results of Bank simulations of
the impact of the new formula, are presented in the section III.



33
4.   The new law establishes that the Length of Service pension be based on the entire
work history but, to protect workers with highly variable earnings (such as women), the
average pension will be based on the 80% highest annual wages over the working life.
Pensions are now defined as Sb = M xf, where Sb is the pension level, M is the average of
the 80% highest contribution wages indexed by past inflation, and f is an actuarial
coefficient, or 'fator previdenciario ". The first part of the actuarial coefficient formula
equilibrates the contribution period of each insured worker to the average time the benefit
is received (life expectancy at retirement, by age). The second part of the actuarial
coefficient is a "bonus" given to insured workers who postpone retirement. Therefore,
the new formula introduces parameters that encourage workers to keep working even
after meeting all the legal qualifications for retirement. In the final version of the project
approved, a transition rule was included that applies the actuarial coefficient gradually
over five years.
5.   Section III presents the significant fiscal savings from implementation of the new
formula under specified assumptions.  The formula has other positive points:
Beneficiaries get what they pay for, at least theoretically. The new formula ties benefits
to contributions - workers who retire earlier will receive a lower pension that those that
stay in the labor force. Pensions will be based on a large part of work/contribution
history. Since the final RGPS pension will be calculated on 80% of a worker's best
salaries, the new formula penalizes strategic underreporting of wages. The formula
delivers better actuarial balance. The internal rates of return estimates show that the
new formula takes steps toward correcting current actuarial imbalances in the RGPS.
There is partial protection against demographic risk. A portion of the new formula
endogenously adjusts pensions by a retiree's life expectancy at the time of retirement.
This will partially protect the RGPS from demographic changes that typically aggravate
imbalances in rigid PAYG systems around the world.
6.   While the new formula has significant advantages, it also has some weaknesses.
The formula is somewhat complicated and difficult to understand. This is true of the
formulas applied in most PAYG systems. However, the new formula with it's actuarial
coefficient adds further complications that make understanding difficult. Aware of this
difficulty, the INSS is developing a web page to help people calculate their benefits. The
new parameters may encourage workers to opt for more easily attainable RGPS benefits
in the Old Age Program. While the Government is aware of this possibility, it has not
forced the new rules on the Old Age Program participants (who account for one third of
all social security benefits) to prevent any potential adverse effect on poverty.
7.   Concern has been raised as to the possible negative impact of recent reforms in the
RGPS on the incomes of poor (mostly rural or female-headed) households that are
dependent on benefit payments from the RGPS as an important source of income. It
should be noted, however, that the reforms to the RGPS passed in 1998 and measures
passed by Congress in 1999, mainly target the parameters of the Length of Service
pension benefits-largely corresponding to urban, male, formal sector workers. The
eligibility and benefit parameters of the Old Age program (15 years of contributions and
65 years of age or older) and special eligibility conditions for rural workers (who can
retire under the Old Age program five years earlier), were not effected by the
constitutional amendment.



34
8.   Although the actuarial coefficient can be applied to both the Length of Service and
the Old Age prograrns, workers who qualify for an Old Age pension can choose to have
the new formula applied only if they fare better under the new rules than under the old
ones. Workers qualifying for Length of Service do not have the same choice. Further,
there is a "lower bound" set at the minimum wage past which the new formula will not be
applied to calculate retirement benefits.  Since the majority of Old Age pension
beneficiaries make the minimum wage, the parameters of their pensions will not be
changed. The majority of beneficiaries of the Old Age program are women; while the
poor benefit the most from special concessions in the regime to rural workers.
III. SIMULATING THE FISCAL EFFECTS OF THE RGPS REFORMS
9.   The World Bank's Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit (PROST) was used
to estimate the effects of the reforms implemented to date. The simulations were
conducted in three steps:
i.  The Base Case: Fiscal implications of the base case of no reform were estimated.
This shows that RGPS deficits as a share of GDP would deteriorate from 1% of GDP
in 2000 to 1.5% by 2005, 2% by 2008, 4% by 2020, and 6% by 2025, and 10% before
2050.
ii. Effects of Constitutional Amendment of 1998: The Constitutional amendment
phased out reduced length of service pensions (the right to retire up to 5 years earlier
with benefits that were up to 30% lower than for unreduced pensions). The effects of
this measure are modest fiscal saving of about 0.5% of GDP, widening to more than
1% of GDP by 2010, and then narrowing again as the saving from making workers
retire later are countered by their higher benefits (at 100% of reference wages) when
they begin to retire.'
iii. Effects of New Benefit Formula of 1999: To take account of the uncertainty on
the degree to which the new formula is successful in inducing workers to retire later,
fiscal benefits under three alternative behavioral scenarios are estimated:
*  Scenario 1: No change in retirement patterns. The assumption is that the
earliest retirement age is 48 years for women and 53 years for men.
*  Scenario 2: Moderate change in retirement patterns. The assumption is that
women who would have retired between 48 and 53 years and men between 53 and
58 years under the old formula, now respond to the incentives to retire later and
delay retirement until 53 and 58 years respectively.
*  Scenario 3: Drastic change in retirement patterns.  The assumption is that
women who would have retired between 48 and 60 years, and men between 53
and 65 years under the old formula, now respond to the incentives to retire later
and delay their retirement until 60 and 65 years respectively.
The precise time at which the reformed scenario is worse than the base case depends on assumptions
regarding how many people would have retired with reduced pensions



35
10.  These simulations assume that the government will take enforcement measures to
prevent switching to Old Age and Disability Pension programs. Since the law drastically
cuts replacement rates in length of service scheme (30/35 years contribution period
requirement) and does not change the rules of the Old Age scheme (15 years contribution
requirement) it creates an incentive to contribute only for 15 years and take only slightly
lower old age benefit. To obtain an idea of how important this phenomenon could be, a
fourth simulation was conducted:
* Scenario 4: Drastic change in retirement patterns and 20% switch from Length
of Service to Old Age retirement scheme. This simulation assumes that 20% of
48/53-60/65 length of service retirees take this incentive, initiating a 10% drop in
male and a 4% drop in female contributors. This leads to a 10% drop in INSS
revenues (this negative effect on revenues would have been even larger if
collection rates in Brazil were higher), but the drop in expenditure resulting from
this switch is only 4%. Although an increase in reported cases of disability is
likely to increase, we assume no change in the take up rate of disability benefits.
11.  Figure 1 plots RGPS fiscal deficits as a share of GDP under the base case, the 1998
Amendment eliminating early retirement with a reduced pension, and the new benefit
formula (using the last set of assumptions regarding retirement behavior and inter-
program switching above).
Figure 1: RGPS Current Deficits, Base Case and 1998/1999 Reforms
(as Percentage of GDP)
2.0% -
CL0.0% 
-2.0% -
O -4.0%
W-6.0%-
u
i  -8.0% 
-10.0%
O-12.0%
-14.0%
.  New Formula (Scenaio 4)      1998 Consttutonal Amendment
No Reform Base Case



36
12.  This last simulation (Scenario 4) is the preferred, safest scenario for measuring the
likely impact of the new formula (although the scenario assumes that there would be no
rise in the number of disability benefits). Under the assumptions made, these simulations
show sizeable fiscal savings from the new benefit formula in the short, medium and long-
term: the reformed RGPS shows a fiscal balance by 2003, and the surplus rises to almost
1% of GDP by 2010 before returning to deficit again by 2020.
13.  A word about the importance of the behavioral assumptions in the absence of a
minimum age at which benefits commence (a "retirement age") is in order. The
simulations show that for the long-run finances of the system, whether or not RGPS
participants actually respond to the incentive to work longer is relatively unimportant.
The main reason for this relative "neutrality" of fiscal outcomes to behavioral responses
to the new formula is that these incentives are almost actuarially fair - the additional
amounts workers will pay in as contributors if they work longer sum up to roughly the
expected additional amounts they will receive as pension benefits.
14.  In fact, fiscal savings in the new benefit system come primarily from two sources:
(i) reduction of the average replacement rate from about 100% of reference salaries to
about 70%-75% of current levels through the introduction of the new benefit formula,
and (ii) lengthening of the reference period gradually to (almost) the full working life.
This point is illustrated in the second figure below in which the fiscal impact of the 4
"behavioral scenarios" detailed above are compared.
Figure 2: RGPS Current Balances under New Formula
(four scenarios)
20/o
-1t%    +ModaSeCOne              DtscticGtwEre   
-12%    S CtPDicGIrge+2Ot/wit    X- BaeUe                     -X
- _No DiCwge2in bdXasoe                        l     l
198  2003  2008  2013  201B  2023  2028  2033  2038  2043  2048



37
15. While the new benefit formula delivers significant fiscal gains in the long-term,
these gains will depend on a drop in Brazil's formidable rates of evasion. Given the high
levels of evasion when RGPS pensions replaced 100% of participating workers' average
salary in the last 3 years, a stronger effort on enforcement is necessary to induce
employers and employees to participate in the system. If implemented rigorously and if
accompanied by a reduction in evasion, the reforms promise significant fiscal and labor
market efficiency benefits.



38                          Annex III
Brasilia, March 2nd 2000.
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
This letter of sector policy discusses progress in the economic stability program of the
Brazilian Government, including developments in its fiscal policy framework and in policies
with regard to social security reform. We are writing to request financial assistance from
IBRD, in the form of a special sector adjustment loan and in support of the second phase of
implementation of these policies. Brazil's social security reforms are central components of
the Government's structural reform program. We believe that its second phase should be a
part of the reforms supported by the Bank's package of special adjustment loans that was
initiated last year in response to the adverse effects on Brazil of the 1997-98 international
shocks.
Macroeconomic Outcomes and Prospects
Following the international commercial and financial shocks that swept emerging
markets worldwide during the second semesters of 1997 and 1998, Brazil strengthened its
strategy of reducing the country's main macroeconomic imbalances. It decided to float its
currency, accelerate the adjustment of the public sector and speed up major structural reforms
designed to put the economy on a better footing. The positive outcomes from the stronger
policy stance are already in evidence, notwithstanding the pessimistic growth, unemployment
and inflation forecasts in the aftermath of the devaluation. The following paragraphs discuss
these outcomes in 1999 as well as the outlook for the year 2000.
The Economy in 1999. Preliminary figures indicate that GDP growth was 0.8% in
1999, well above projections at the beginning of the year. The open unemployment rate,
although at a high level of 7.6 %, did not increase on average during the year. The exchange
rate, after reaching a peak of over 2 reais per dollar, from 1.2 real at the end of 1998,
stabilized below 1.8 real at end-1999. Inflation, as measured by the main consumer price
index, reached 8.9%, well within the target band established for the whole year by the
government. The limited pass-through of the exchange rate devaluation to domestic prices
1



39
was due to the tight monetary and fiscal policy, a sizable output gap in the presence of a weak
demand, and the previous formal de-indexation of the economy. With less volatility in the
foreign exchange market and with inflation under control, the Central Bank, after increasing
short nominal interest rates to above 40% per year in early March, gradually reduced its rates
to 19% by the end of the year.
The major economic imbalances were clearly reduced in 1999. The primary surplus of
the public sector - which in the case of Brazil encompasses the federal government, the
Central Bank, states, municipalities, social security and state enterprises of all three levels of
government - increased from 0% in 1998 to 3.1% of GDP. The fiscal adjustment together
with the exchange rate stabilization and the reduction of real interest rates, put the net debt of
the whole public sector expressed in terms of GDP on a downward trend. Net public sector
debt, which had risen to 51.7% in January 1999 after the float of the real, came gradually
down to 47.0% of GDP in December.
The current account deficit of the balance of payments showed a significant reduction.
The deficit fell from US$ 33.6 billion to US$ 24.3 billion in 1999, thanks to a smaller trade
deficit - which fell from US$ 6.6 billion to US$ 1.2 billion - and improvements in the
balance of important services, including international travel and profits and dividends. The
current account deficit was more than financed by direct investment, which reached a record
level of US$ 30 billion in 1999. The larger size of foreign investment gives a good picture of
increased international investor confidence in the long-term perspectives of the Brazilian
economy.
Despite the significant overall cuts in the 1999 budget, the Government has
successfully protected key social expenditures. These include the 22 priority programs in
education, health, labor, and social assistance supported under World Bank and IDB special
loans. In these programs, 1999 budget allocations were near or above their 1998 levels and
indications are that full budget execution occurred. Furthermore, the Government's budget
proposal for 2000 implies an increase in funding for the total of the 22 programs of 20% over
the 1999 budget proposal and 12% over the approved 1999 budget, including very significant
increases for relatively new and promising programs that link transfer payments to poor
families to children's school attendance (Child Labor Eradication Program, and Bolsa
Escola). Subnational Governments have also contributed to social protection in the crisis
period, for example through workfare programs implemented by several states and
municipalities. At the same time, the Federal Government is proceeding with a program to
improve the quality and targeting of spending in the social area.
Prospects for 2000. Prospects for 2000 indicate a clear improvement in Brazil's
general economic performance. Annual growth is projected to pick up moderately and stay at
about 4%. This increase in growth is likely to contain unemployment. Inflation has already
started a downward trend and the official objective to limit consumer inflation to about 6%
seems well within reach. Under the Government's Fiscal Stability Program, the primary
surplus of the whole public sector is projected to increase to 3.25% of GDP in the year 2000
(and to 3.35% of GDP in 2001). As stabilization proceeds, real interest rates are expected to
decline further.
2



40
Exports are expected to gain momentum in a more favorable external environment
and following an increase in the quantum of basic exports in 1999. In spite of the resumption
of growth, the current account deficit is expected to be close to the 1999 number. Even
though a reduction in foreign direct investment is foreseen, it is expected that FDI will still be
sufficiently large - about US$ 25 billion - to cover the current account deficit. Privatization
proceeds are estimated to reach US$ 10 billion in 2000 and surpass, on an accumulated basis
(1991-2000), the threshold of US$ 100 billion, which puts the Brazilian privatization program
among the largest in the world.
'Social Security Reform Program
Social security remains the most important policy challenge from the fiscal point of
view. The Constitutional Amendment on social security approved by Congress in December
1998, represented an important step towards the improvement of the system and the reduction
of its deficit. The Amendment specified changes in all three components of Brazil's Social
Security System: the General Regime for Social Security - RGPS (regime for workers of the
private sector); the Regime of the Civil Servants (RJU); and the Complementary Pension
]Regime. The changes introduced by the Constitutional Amendment 20/98, were summarized
in the Policy Letter of December 9th, 1998 addressed to you. The Government has now
implemented a number of additional reforms for the RGPS regime, and is in the process of
implementing additional reforms for the RJU and Complementary Pension regimes. Many of
these reforms had been foreseen in the mentioned Policy Letter as part of the Government's
Second Phase of its Social Security Reform Program.
Reform of the RGPS
Amendment No. 20/98 set the basis for a new model of Social Security System.
Article 201 of the Constitution establishes the principle of a Social Security System based on
contributions, and actuarially and financially balanced. This principle introduces the need to
change the methodology for calculating the pensions of the insured workers, as well as to
create a modern Social Security System, able to attract workers from the informal labor
market.
New Benefit Formula for the RGPS. One of the most important changes introduced
by the Constitutional Amendment is the elimination of the benefit formula for the RGPS from
the text of the Constitution. This required that a new methodology for calculating the pension
benefit be established through an Ordinary Law. Law 9,876, enacted in November 1999,
establishes actuarial criteria for calculating pension benefits. According to the new Law, the
value of the benefit is calculated considering the average of the 80% highest wages of the
entire period of contribution, from July 1994 until the date of retirement (the past rule
considered the average of the last 36 wages). In addition to the expansion of the reference
period, the new law introduces the use of an Actuarial Coefficient (Fator Previdenciario),
which multiplies the average wage. The Actuarial Coefficient is calculated according to the
worker's length of contribution, age and life expectancy at retirement. In the new
methodology, the average contribution is accumulated and indexed along the worker's entire
3



41
labor life, and capitalized by different interest rates, depending on the worker's choice
regarding the retirement date.
The new methodology makes pensions a function of the value and length of
contribution. For the first time conditions are being introduced to encourage workers to
remain in the labor force, even after meeting all the legal requirements for retirement. The
Actuarial Coefficient introduces the equalization between contributions and benefits,
allowing for demographic adjustments to be made inside the system. This new structure
considers both the increase in life expectancy for a certain age and entrance or exit dates in
the pension calculus. The actuarial coefficient represents the main innovation of the RGPS
system, as it takes into account actuarial criteria and reduces the problems caused by the
young retirement age in Brazil, particularly in the case of length of contribution benefits. It is
important to mention that the new methodology for calculating the RGPS benefits creates a
close link between benefits and contributions, according to what was envisaged in paragraph
30 of the Letter of Sector Policy of December 9th, 1998. Our estimates indicate that the new
benefit formula will stabilize the deficit of the RGPS after about five years.
Incentives to expand coverage among self-employed. Law 9,876 introduces
incentives to expand the system's coverage among the self-employed. One incentive is the
elimination of the wage-base scale. Before Law 9,876 was enacted, the self-employed were
forced to stay a minimum number of years in each level of the wage scale. The new law
introduces more flexibility, allowing contributions to increase or decrease according to the
worker's income. This measure is coherent with the new benefit formula based on 80% of
the highest contribution wages, as it permits the worker to pay the highest contribution as
possible in order to reach higher benefits after retirement. Another important measure
involves the reduction of the contribution for the self-employees when they are rendering
services to firms. With this new rule, the worker can lower his contribution rate from 20% to
11%. The contracting firm must pay a social security contribution of 20%, calculated over
the value of the services agreed. This change facilitates the formalization of the relation
between the self-employed and companies, aiming at expanding the coverage of these
emerging labor relationships. According to the old rule, entrepreneurs, the self-employed and
optional insured workers, did not qualify for maternity benefits. Law 9,876 eliminates this
restriction. Finally, the Law reduces by 50% interest penalties on late contributions of the
self- employed Workers who have not paid past contributions are now able to pay them with
an interest rate of 0.5% per month, instead of 1%. Lower penalties are expected to be an
incentive for workers to regularize their situation with the INS S.
Law 9,876 also reduces the insured workers' categories from seven to four, in order to
simplify administrative procedures and increase the efficiency of the INSS. The Law also
links social security and the children education policy, by making payment of family
allowance benefit conditioned to evidence of school attendance of the children in the family.
Besides the preoccupation with children's education, the social security reform is
being implemented with strong concern for protecting the lower income population. Early in
the design of the reform, decisions were made to ensure that this group will be protected by
making the application of the Actuarial Coefficient optional for the worker when calculating
old age pensions. The worker will only make the choice for calculating the pension with the
coefficient if it is greater than one. In such case, the pensioner will receive a higher benefit
with the new formula than he or she would have received before the reform. In Brazil, the old
4



42
age pensions represent around 33% of all social security benefits and they are oriented to the
lower income population. Specially in rural areas a large portion of the family income derives
from old age and death pensions. This situation demonstrates the positive influence of social
security on poverty reduction.
Other Legislative Initiatives. Three new bills of law in the area of social security are
expected to receive approval by Congress in the near future:
Crimes Against Social Security. According to what was expressed in paragraph 31 of
the Policy Letter of December 1998, a bill of law was submitted to Congress in May 1999,
which defines crimes against the Social Security system and establishes the corresponding
penalties. With the approval of this bill, the INSS will be able to use criminal sanctions to
i-ight fraud and disregard for the law.
Reform of the Rural Pension System. A bill of law was submitted to Congress, which
introduces incentives for the formalization of the rural labor force. The bill would allow rural
employers to deduct from their contribution the amount of their employee's contribution.
This mechanism would create incentives for rural companies to declare their employees.
The bill of law was withdrawn to make it compatible with the new benefit formula for the
RGPS, but we expect to submit it again to Congress in the near future.
Worker's Injury Insurance. A bill of law to regulate the provision of worker's
insurance by public and non-public entities is under preparation and should be submitted to
Congress in April 2000. The bill intends to increase the prevention of accidents and to
improve the recovery of the injured workers by allowing non-profit private organizations and
commercial insurance companies to provide insurance coverage.
Presidential Decrees and Resolutions. New Criteria for Temporary and Permanent
Disability Program. Important measures have been taken to avoid fraud on the concession of
disability benefits. A Presidential Decree was issued to limit the concession of disability
benefits to cases where its is possible to clearly establish the link between the task performed
by the worker and the related disease.
Since the Presidential Decree 3112/99 was issued, the Ministry of Social Security and
Social Assistance (MPAS) has started to pay the compensation owed by the RGPS to the
specific pension regimes of the Federal Government, States, Federal District and
Municipalities. This payment derives from the partial reimbursement of the retirement and
death pensions, which were granted to civil servants that had previous length of service in the
INSS and paid only by the specific regimes mentioned above.
The National Monetary Council has issued regulations to guarantee the security and
solvency in the application of the funds with social security purposes, having the Brazilian
Central Bank as intermediary. Among the subjects regulated are the ways of acquiring
actions from companies that are linked to the social security funds, as well as the application
of sources derived from patrimony alienation that are linked to the funds in the form of assets
5



43
and rights of any nature. These measures conform to what was envisaged in the December
1998 Policy Letter.
Restructuring of the INSS. The INSS has taken administrative measures to be able to
offer the insured workers a better service, as specified in paragraph 35 of the Policy Letter of
December 9h, 1998. The INSS has adopted a new organizational structure, so that its actions
can reach a greater number of workers in a more efficient way. It has established the
executive management and the agencies to substitute the old Social Security offices. At the
same time, it is also implementing a Service Improvement Program (Programa de Melhoria
do Atendimento - PMA) to improve its services to the public. The aim is to bring a new
philosophy for dealing with the insured workers, unifying the procedures for approving
benefits and collecting contributions and all other social security services in the same place,
and for treating the insured worker as a client.  The INSS has also completed the
consolidation of the Social Security records in an integrated data base-the Unified Cadaster
of Social Information (CNIS)-which makes possible a better control of social security
actions. This measure was also foreseen in paragraph 28 of the Policy Letter of December
9 , 1998.
Changes in the Complementary Pension System
The Constitutional Amendment 20/98 opened the possibility of modernizing and
expanding the Complementary pension system. On March 16, 1999, the Executive submitted
to the National Congress three Complementary Bills of law to implement the clauses of the
Amendment concerning the Complementary Pension System. Guiding principles in the
preparation of these bills were: (i) democratization of access to the Complementary system;
(ii) stability of rules, (iii) strengthening the management of the closed pension funds; (iv)
modernization and expansion of the Complementary system; and (v) strengthening of the
regulatory capacity of the State.
Under the current law, workers can only participate in closed complementary pension
funds sponsored by their employers. Bill of Law 63/99, which will replace the current law,
establishes the conditions for a broader system in which other groups such as professional
organizations, employer associations, and trade unions will be able to create pension funds
for their members or associates. Approximately 68 million people who are economically
active will have access to the Complementary pension funds, in accordance with their
financial means. Considering that only 2 million people, between workers and retirees, are
currently covered by closed pension funds, the proposed legislation should have a major
impact on the system.
This bill also introduces rules for portability, vesting, defined contribution plans, and
multi-sponsored plans. This bill was approved by the House of Representatives with
enormous consensus (237 votes in favor and 6 votes against the Bill of Law). The bill has
been approved by the Constitution and Justice Committee of the Senate. The Constitutional
Amendment also opened the possibility for the Union, States, Municipalities and the Federal
District of establishing complementary pension funds for their employees.
6



44
Bill of Law 09/00, also under consideration in Congress establishes the rules for the
creation of complementary pension funds by these public entities. Finally, Bill of Law 01/00
has been submitted to Congress, which regulates the institutional relationship between the
public direct administration at the Federal, State and Municipality level, as sponsor of
complementary pension funds and the administration of their respective pension funds.
Regarding the complementary regime the Government will submit to Congress a bill
of law establishing a Regulatory Agency, that will be responsible for controlling all the
organizations that offer complementary social security services. The experience shows that
specific controlling agencies have more agility and efficiency, as they have their own
resources, flexibility and more independence to take decisions.
Changes in the RJU
The Government has taken a number of initiatives regarding the Civil Servants' Social
Security Regime (RJU), which remains the most important fiscal challenge for the country.
A new Law for public administration has been approved, which allows new civil service
employees to be hired under the labor legislation for private sector workers (Consolidated
Labor Legislation -CLT ), being covered by RGPS.
In the long run, the problem of the social security regime for public sector workers
will be solved because the new entrants will join an actuarially fair system. However, there
will still be a high implicit pension debt to be paid due to the generous replacement rates and
low contribution rates of the current generation of contributors and beneficiaries under the
RJU. The Government has submitted to Congress a Constitutional Amendment to enable the
collection of social security contribution from the retired civil servants. The idea is to share
the cost of paying the social security debt, which now falls on all tax payers and active
workers, with the retired ones, who are receiving benefits for which they did not contribute
enough or even not at all. This Amendment is linked to the Hauly Amendment that aims at
the total unification of the public and private regimes. Another point also being discussed at
the moment is the Reform of the Social Security System of the Military. The objective is to
eliminate privileges conceded to this group in the past and reduce expenditures.
The Fiscal Responsibility Bill has implications for the social security regime of the
civil servants. This Bill has already been approved by the House of Representatives, and is
waiting for Senate approval.  The Bill establishes that the RJUs must be based on
contributions that guarantee financial and actuarial equilibrium to the system. The financial
and actuarial valuation of the RJUs must be expressed in the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO)
and, to increase transparency, specific and proper information on the social security accounts
should be issued on a regular basis.
7



45
Request for Financial Assistance
The Government - including the Executive, Congressional and Judicial branches -
remains firmly committed to its program of fiscal adjustment and pension reform as outlined
above, and would welcome World Bank financial assistance. We appreciate the prompt
consideration that the World Bank management and staff have given to the Program of
Support for Brazil, and would particularly welcome the inclusion of the proposed US505.06
million Second Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan in the program, in support of
measures that have been enacted and are under implementation. We look forward to working
together with the Bank on a proposed future loan as further pension reforms take place.
Waldeck Omrlas                           Amaury Bier
Minister of Social Security and Social      Acting Minister of Finance
Assistance
8



46                                  Annex IV
page 1 of 2
Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
Artual                Fqfimate             Projeced.
Indicator              1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Nationa I accounts (% of GDP)
Gross donestic product               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Net indirect taxes                  15.8    15.6    14.8    14.5    14.0    18.2         18.3     18.4    18.4
Agricultuie                          8.3      7.6     7.1      6.7      7.2      7.0      6.8      6.8     6.7
Industry                            33.7    31.0    25.0    25.4    24.7    24.1         23.3     23.1    23.0
Sevices                             42.2    45.9    53.1    53.4    54.0    50.7    51.6    51.7    51.9
Total Consumption                     77.5    79.5    81.4    81.4    81.4    80.1        78.9    77.3    76.7
Gross donestic fixedinvestment        20.7    20.5    19.1    19.6    19.9    20.0    21.1         22.4    22.5
Goveiriment investment               3.6     2.5      2.3      2.2      2.2      1.9      2.1     2.1      2.7
Private investment                  17.1    18.0    16.8    17.4    17.7    18.0    19.0    20.4    19.7
Change in stocks                       1.4     1.7      1.6      1.7      1.4     1.1       1.0     1.0      1.1
Exports of goods & services            9.5     7.7      7.1      7.6      7.4    10.0    10.8       11.6    12.3
Imports of goods & services            9.2     9.5      9.2    10.2    10.1    11.1        11.8    12.3    12.6
Gross domestic savings                22.5    20.5     18.6    18.6    18.6    19.9    21.1        22.7    23.3
Gross national savin2sa               21.3    19.5    17.3    16.9    16.3    16.6    17.9    19.6    19.9
Memorcrndwn itans
GDP (US$ million at currentprices)  546,230  704,168  774,869  804,113  775,356  560,462  566,347  574,909  589,055
GNP ner canita (US$. Atlas methodl    3060    3690    4340    4790    4570    4666    4540    4541    4629
Real annual growth rates (%)
GDP at market prices                 5.9      4.2     2.8      3.2      0.1      0.0      3.7      4.0     4.0
Gross Domestic Income                5.6      4.9     2.4      3.7      0.8    -0.2       3.6      4.0     4.0
Real annual per capita growth rates (%)
GDP at market prices                 4.4      2.8      1.4     1.8    -1.2    -1.5        2.2      2.5     2.5
Total consumption                    4.3      5.0     2.3      2.5      0.0    -2.2       0.8      0.7     2.1
Pnivate consumption                  7.7    15.2      0.3      1.0    -0.3       1.2      3.5      4.3     2.0
Balance of Payments (mfnlions of US$)
Exports of goods & services         46,702   49,544   51,853   56,831   55,479   55,981   61,103   66,747   72,429
Merchandise FOB                 43,545   46,506   47,747   52,990   51,120   46,930   51,408   56,461   61,506
Imports of goods & services         40,131   58,749   64,958   74,147   70,517   62,217   66,761   70,905   74,029
Mer chandise FOB                33,079   49,858   53,286   61,347   57,558   47,980   51,820   55,366   57,785
Resource balance                    6,571   -9,205  -13,105  -17,316  -15,038   -6,236   -5,658   -4,158   -1,600
Net current transfers               2,588    3,973    2,899    2,216    1,886    -647     806    1,063    1,064
Current accountbalance             -1,689  -17,972  -24,347  -33,430  -34,946  -24,628  -23,690  -22,338  -21,640
Netforeigndirectinvestnent          2,356    4,778    9,644   17,879   26,110   27,210   25,140   15,000   15,000
Long-term loans (net)               4,421    6,547   12,681   18,409   26,342  -16,772   -3,143    8,558    3,347
Official                          -2,134   -1,576    -533   -1,533    4,850   -1,077    1,073    4,782    671
Private                           6,555    8,123   13,214   19,942   21,492  -15,695   -4,216    3,776    2,676
Othercanital (net ind. errors&on    7,851   20,127   11,039  -10,659  -25,997   25,838    6,029    7,830    8,031
Chanein reservesb                -12.939  -13.480   -9.017    7.801    8.491  -11.648   -4.335   -9.050   -4.739
(Continued)



47                                    Annex IV
page 2 of 2
Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                 Estimate               Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997          1998    1999    2000    2001         2002
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)              1.2      -1.3     -1.7     -2.2     -1.9      -1.1     -1.0     -0.7      -0.3
Real annual growth rates (%)
Merchandise exports (FOB)               6.6     -2.0     35.8       1.8      4.0      6.9       6.5      6.2       5.8
Primary                               17.6     -1.9      5.6      6.1      13.8      1.0      4.0       3.0      3.1
Manufactures                           2.7     -2.0      5.3      0.0       2.2     11.1       8.0      8.2      7.3
Merchandise imports (CIF)              25.5     38.7       6.1     14.5      8.3    -16.3       3.3      3.2       1.6
Public finance (% of GDP)C
Nonfinancial revenue                   18.6     19.6      17.8     18.6     20.4     21.1      20.7     20.5      20.5
Current expenditures                   15.9     18.9      17.6     18.0     18.9      18.4     17.4     17.3      17.3
Primay Balance                          3.1      0.6       0.4     -0.3      0.6      2.4       2.7      2.7       2.7
Capital expenditure                     1.0      0.8       0.8      0.9      1.1      0.5       0.7       1.0      1.1
Foreign financing                                      ..       ..        ..       ..       ..        ..
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                 41.7     29.7     27.7      29.4     28.7     29.4      29.4     29.4      29.4
Growth of M2 (%/0)                   1211.9     29.0      13.3     13.7      9.7      12.3     12.7      8.6       8.6
Private sector creditgrowth/total c    81.6    115.9       9.3     42.6     59.8  -1263.1   -130.8    236.4  -127.4
Price indices (1987 =100)
Merchandise export price index        120.3    127.7    127.2    122.8    116.8    109.6    112.8    116.6    120.1
Merchandise import priceindex         114.8    124.1    127.3    118.1    104.8    110.1    115.1    119.2    122.5
Merchandise terms of trade index      104.8    102.9      99.9    104.0    111.5     99.5      97.9     97.8      98.0
Index real average exchange rate (1    97.3    110.5    112.2    118.0    120.8    140.2    147.5    155.2    161.7
Real InterestRates (Time Deposits)   23.3%    12.2%    14.8%    28.6%    24.6%    14.0%    13.3%    12.6%    12.0%
Consumer price index (% change)    2075.9       66.0      15.8      6.9      2.7      8.5       6.0      4.0       4.0
GDP deflator (% change)              2239.1     77.6      17.2      7.8      3.6      9.0       6.2      4.4       4.4
a. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
b. Includes use of IMF resources.
c. Refers to Consolidated Central Govemrnentaccounts
d. "LCUY' denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



48                               Annex V
Brazil - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                Estimate              Projected
Indicator              1994   1995      1996    1997     1998    1999    2000    2001        2002
Total debtoutstanding and        151,209  159,037  180,785  194,882  236,058  221,894  218,000  220,821  223,069
disbursed (TDO) (USSm)
Net disbursements (US$m)a          1,909    9,097   15,242   18,276   23,309  (11,286)  (3,891)   2,843    2,246
Total debt service (TDS)          16,212   21,681   25,078   38,243   40,226   73,694   54,739   48,494   43,557
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGSb                          296.4   280.6   300.7   293.5   362.9   369.3   332.5    309.6   289.2
TDO/GDP                            27.7    22.6    23.3    24.2    30.4    39.6    38.5    38.4    37.9
TDS/XGS                            31.8    38.2    41.7    57.6    61.8    122.7    83.5    68.0    56.5
ConcessionalfrDO                      ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      0.7      0.8      2.0      0.9
IBRDexposure indicators ()/o)
IBRD DS/public DS                  20.8    14.0    12.7        8.5      8.1      3.5      5.4      5.5      9.6
Preferrecl creditor DS/public      28.8     18.7    17.6    12.2    12.0    17.9    48.8    33.2    29.0
DS (0/%)c
IBRD D',/XGS                        3.7      3.3      2.7      2.2      2.1      2.5      2.3      2.2      2.4
IBRD TI)O(US$m)d                  6311    6038    5876    5743    6298    7116    8194    8941            9684
Of which present value of           0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
guarartees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio(%)            6        5        5        5       5         6       6        6        6
IDA TDO (US$m)d                       0        0       0         0       0         0       0        0        0
IFC (US$rn)
Loans                               464      567     328      402      430       141
Equityandquasi-equity /c            123      166       56      44       106      51
MIGA
MIGAguarantees(US$m)                 95      129      164      201      195
a. Includes public and publiclyguaranteed debt, private nonguarantced, use of IMF credits and netshort-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Include; present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



CAS Annex B8 - Brazil
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed 173
Projects
Difference Between
Board                                                  Last PSR                                                      Expected and Actual
Date                                             Supervision Rating b/           Orilinal Amount In US$ Millions      Disbursements"
Fisrcal                                       DvlpetIpeetto
Year  Active Projects                        Develobment  lmPlementatson      IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig. Frm Rev'd
1989    P006370   NE IRRI JAIBA                     S             S               71           0          0      0.22      0.22        0
1990    P006453   NE IRRIG I                        S             U              210           0          0    14.37      83.37     53.03
1992    P006505   MATO GROSSO NAT RES               U             U              205           0          0    48.41     48.41         0
1992    P006454   RONDONIA NTRL RES. M              U             U               167          0          0    27.18     27.18          0
1992    P006368   WATER SECTOR MODERNI              S             S              250           0          0      1.06      1.06         0
1993    P006541    BR WTR Q/PLN(SP/PR/FED)          S             S              245           0        9.3    12.95      22.25     12.95
1993    P006547    METRO TRANSP. RIO                S             S             128.5          0          0      0.29      0.29         0
1993    P006540   WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA              S             S                 0          0          0        0         0          0
1994    P006524   BR MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT            S             S               150          0        9.7    24.74      34.44     29.44
1994    P006558   BR PARANA BASIC EDUC              S             S                96          0          0    15.37      15.37         0
1994    P006522   ESP.SANTO WATER                   U             U               154          0         54    18.29      72.29      0.05
1994    P006543    M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC             S             S               150          0          0    13.48      13.48         0
1995    P006564   BELO H M.TSP                      S             S                99          0          0    35.14       28.8         0
1995    P006436   Ceara Urban Development & W       S             S               140          0          0    47.48      47.48      4.15
1995    P038882   RECIFE M.TSP                      S             S               102          0          0    64.47      53.13         0
1995    P035717   RURAL POV. (BAHIA)                S             S               105          0          0    31.59      18.93         0
1995    P038884   RURAL POV.- CEARA                 S             S                70          0          0    10.88       1.42         0
1995    P038885   RURAL POV.-SERGIPE                S             S                36          0          0      5.45      0.69         0
1996    P037828   BR (PR)R. POVERTY                 S             S               175          0          0   128.12      99.86         0
1996    P006512   BR ENV/CONS(CVRD)                 U             U                50          0          0    16.52      12.52         0      0 >
1996    P006554   HLTH SCTR REFORM                  S             S               300          0          0   209.49    174.49          0      N J
1996    P040028   RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG              S             S               350          0         50    37.42      70.76     37.42        x
1997    P043871   (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                  S             S                30          0          0      6.75      0.09         0
1997    P043873   AG TECH DEV.                      S             S                60          0          0    44.26       22.6         0       h
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



CAS Annex B8 - Brazil
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfollo)
Closed 1 73
Projects
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                     Expected and Actual
Board
Date                                            Supervision Rating b/          Original Amount In US$ Millions     Disbursements'
Fiscal                                      DvlpetIpeetto
Year  Active Projects                       Development  Implementation      IBRD        IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig. Frm Rev'd
Oblectives    Progress
1997    P006562   BAHIA MUN.DV                    S             S              100          0          0    88.31     49.98      2.33
1997    P046052   CEARAWTR PILOT                  S             S               9.6         0          0      6.27     6.27       0.9
1997    P006532   FED HWY DECENTR                 S             S              300          0          0   229.33    159.33         0
1997    P006475   LAND RFM PILOT                   S            S               90          0          0    54.21     31.73         0
1997    P048870   MT STATE PRIV.                  HS            S               45          0          0    13.23     13.23      2.16
1997    P042566   R.POVERTY(PE)                   S             S               39          0          0    11.54      4.31         0
1997    P038896   R.POVERTY(RGN)                   S            S               24          0          0    11.02      5.56         0
1997    P034578   RGS HWY MGT                     S             S               70          0          0    60.27     33.61      2.94
1997    P043868   RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY             S            S              100          0          0      86.9    32.66         0
1998    P006559   (BF-R)SP.TSP                     S            S               45          0          0       45     35.67         0
1998    P035728   BAHIAWTR RESOURCES               S            S               51          0          0    36.74     23.98         0
1998    P050762   BR Fundescola I                 S             S              62.5         0          0      13.3   -17.53         0
1998    P006474   BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO         S            S               55          0          0       55     17.04         0
1998    P038947   BR SC. & TECH 3                 S             S              155          0          0   128.66        52         0
1998    P048357   CEN.BANKTAL                     S             S               20          0          0    11.55     11.55         0
1998    P038895   FED.WTR MGT                      S            S              198          0          0   157.12      70.8       0.56
1998    P006549   GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT            HS            HS             130          0          0      88.9     88.9         0
1998    P051701   MARANHAO R.POVERTY              S             S               80          0          0    48.46      -1.34        0
1998    P042565   PARAIBA R.POVERTY                S            S               60          0          0    44.73       5.9         0
1998    P057910   PENSION REFORM LIL              HS            S                5          0          0      4.71     4.71         0
1998    P043421   RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.                S            S              186           0         0   178.12    130.75         0
1998    P043420   WATER S.MOD.2                    S            S              150           0         0      150     76.71      23.49
1999    P054120   AIDS 2                           S            S              165          0          0   119.23     34.23         0   a
1999    P055388   ANIMAL&PLANT DIS. CO             S            S               44           0         0       44      5.28         0
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



CAS Annex B8 - Brazil
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed 173
Projects
Difference Between
Board                                                  Last PSR                                                       Expected and Actual
Date                                             Supervision Rating b/           Orlainal Amount in US$ Millions      Dlsbursements&/
Fiscalieeomn                                                   Ipeetto
Year  Active Projects                         Oblectives     Progress          IBRD        IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig. Frm Rev'd
1999    P058129   BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION          S             S                15          0          0    14.85       6.02         0
1999    P050763   BR Fundescola II                  S             S            202.03          0          0      154    -26.66          0
1999    P043874   DISEASE SURVEILLANCE              S             S               100          0          0    89.72      31.39         0
1999    P048869   SALVADOR URBAN TRANS              S             S               150          0          0    148.5    15.17           0
2000    P006449   BR CEARAWTR MGT                                                 136          0          0       136        0          0
2000    P039200   BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY                                           43.4          0          0      43.4         0         0
2000    P035741    BR NATL ENV 2                    S             S                15          0          0        15        0          0
2000    P062619   BR-INSS REF LIL                                                5.05          0          0      5.05      0.05         0
2000    P039199   PROSANEAR 2                                                    30.3          0          0      30.3         0         0
x
(D  M
O  H
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



52                                            Annex VII
page 1 of 3
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Brazil
Brazil
Staement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/99
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                      Disbursed
FY Appoval                                          COMpay           Loan   Eqiuity  Oussi Panfic Loan  Eqiuity Quasi Pantic
1995 AEF Comp Avionic    0.27       0     0      0   0.27      0     0       0
1999 AEF FasoMine           1    0.45      0     0      0      0     0       0
1992 AEFGrowela          0.15       0      0     0   0.15      0     0       0
1993 AEFHtlTropico       0.52       0      0     0   0.52      0     0       0
1996 AEFNotac=m          0.69       0      0     0   0.69      0     0       0
1994/96                                            AEF Proleg              0       0      0      0     0      0     0       0
1999 AEF Saicam             0       0   0.38     0      0      0     0       0
1994/96                                            AEF Ulited Trspt     0.28       0      0      0   0.28     0     0       0
1979 Alucam                 0    0.93      0     0      0   0.93     0       0
1998 Arteb                 20       7      0    20    20       7     0      20
1999 BACBank                0       0      5     0      0      0  0.65       0
1993 BACELL                 6    15.7      0   16.2     6   15.7     0    16.2
1998 BSC                13.18       0      0   7.06  13.18     0     0    7.06
1990/91/92                                         Bahia Sul               0       0      0     0      0      0     0       0
1996 BancoBradesco      15.51       0     0  22.36  15.51      0     0   22.36
1999 Bank of Shanghai       0   21.76     0      0      0  21.76     0       0
1996 BeijingHormel       4.28     0.5     0    4.4  4.28    0.5      0     4.4
1997 Bompreco              25       0      5     0    25       0     5    .0
1991 Bradesco-Baha          3       0      0     0      3      0     0       0
1991 Bradesco-Eucatex     7.5       0      0     0    7.5      0     0       0
1995 Brdesco-Hering       7.5       0      0     0    7.5      0     0       0
1991 Bradesco-Petrofl     7.5       0      0     0    7.5      0     0       0
1991 Bradesco-Romi       0.79     0.4      0     0   0.79    0.4     0       0
1995 Brahma-BRA          17.5       0      5   36.9  17.5      0     5    36.9
1981 Brasilpar              0    0.04      0     0      0   0.04     0       0
1993/96                                            CEVAL                   0      10      0      0     0     10     0       0
1994/96                                            CHAPECO                15       0      0      5    15      0     0       5
i986 CICAM               1.93       0      0     0   1.93      0     0       0
i998 CIGPortHolding         0     1.5      0     0      0    1.5     0       0
1973/78/83                                         CODEMIN                 0     0.4      0      0     0    0.4     0       0
1992 CRP-Cadeni             0    0.68      0     0      0   0.68     0       0
1998 CaltexOcean           21       0     0    45    21        0     0      45
1995 Cambuhy/MC            15       0     0      0    15       0     0       0
1999 Celhaut             13.9    1.5      0      0   13.9   1.5      0       0
1998 ChengduChemical        0     3.2     0      0      0      0     0       0
1998 Chengxn-IBCA           0    0.36      0     0      0   0.36     0       0
1987/92/94                                         China Bicycles          0    0.95      0     0      0   0.95     0       0
1994 China Walden TV        0     5.4      0     0      0    5.4     0       0
1994 China Walden Mgt       0    0.01      0     0      0   0.01     0       0
1997 Copesul               35       0      0 154.29    35      0     0  154.29
1993/97/00                                         Coteminas               0    0.53      0      0     0   0.53     0       0
1980/92                                            DENPASA                 0       0   0.12      0     0      0  0.05       0
1994 Dalian Glass       19.36     2.4      0  36.89  19.36    2.4    0   36.89
1998 DevnyaCement       29.98       0      0     0  23.22      0     0       0
1998 Dixie Toga             0      15      0     0      0     15     0       0
1999 Dujiantean         25.59       0      0    30      0      0     0       0
1995 Dupont Suzhou      20.25    4.15      0   36.4  20.25   4.15    0    36.4
1987/96/97                                         Duastex                22       0      0  66.33    22      0     0   66.33
1994 Dynamic Fund           0   12.35      0     0      0   10.7     0       0
1990 ENGEPOL             0.66       0     0      0   0.66      0     0       0
1997 Ecobank-Burkina        0    0.25      0     0      0   0.25     0       0
1999 Eliane                32       0    13      0      0      0     0       0
1998 Empesca                5       0     10     0      5      0    10       0
1994 EuromerchantFND        0       5      0     0      0    4.5     0       0
1998 Fosfestil             20       0      0    45  15.08      0     0   33.92
1998 Fras-le               10       0     10     0     10      0   6.7       0
1994 GAVEA               8.75       0    5.5     0   8.75      0   5.5       0
1994 GPCapital              0   14.04      0     0      0     14     0       0
1995/96/98                                          Globocabo              0    9.91      0      0     0   9.91     0       0
1997 Guilmana-Amorim    28.92       0      0  81.42  28.92     0     0   81.42
1999 Hansom                 0    16.1      0     0      0   16.1     0       0
1998 IcatuEquity            0      30      0     0      0    1.8     0       0
1999 InnovaSA              20       5      0    60      0      5     0       0
1996 Interlease Inc.     3.21     0.3      0     0   1.71    0.3     0       0



53                                               Annex VII
page 2 of 3
1980/87/97                                          Ipira                  40        0      0    150    40       0     0     150
1996 Jir4yng               40       0      0    100    40       0      0     100
2000 KronospanBulgar     12.62       0      0   9.08   8.22      0     0    5.91
1995 LATASA-Brszil       11.67      0      0    1.5  11.67      0      0     1.5
1998 Leshan Scana          6.1    1.35     0      0    3.5   1.35      0       0
1996/97                                             Lightel                  0    8.17      0      0      0   8.17     0       0
1995 LojasAmeicana         22        0     5      10    22      0      5      10
1987/92196                                          MBR                      0       0      0      0      0      0     0       0
1993 Macedo Alimentos     9.04      0      5      0   9.04      0      5       0
1996 Mallory              6.55      0      0      0   6.55      0      0       0
1996 Nanjing Kumho       11.68    3.81     0  33.22  11.68   3.81      0   33.22
1995 NewbridgeInv.          0    5.44      0       0     0   2.13      0       0
1997 Ningbo                 0       2      0      0      0      2      0       0
1980188                                              OPP                     0       0      0      0      0      0     0       0
1997 Orient Finance      13.33       0      0  16.67  13.33      0     0   16.67
1975/96                                              OxitenoNE              20       0      0      0    20       0     0       0
1982/84/86                                          PISA                     0       0      0      0      0      0     0       0
1997 PTPHubei            12.63       0      0  25.38  12.63     0      0   25.38
1994/97                                              PTP Leshan            3.6       0      0      0    3.6      0     0       0
1996 Pacific Ports          0    3.64       0      0      0   3.64     0       0
1994 ParaPigmentos       29.66       0      9  27.55  29.66      0     9   27.55
1992/94/97/98                                        PectenCameroon      45.47       0      0    144  17.46      0     0   55.29
1987/96                                             Perdigao             26.25       0      0     12  26.25      0     0      12
1989/95                                             PolitenoInd&         11.69       0      0      0  11.69      0     0       0
1994 Portobello          10.93       5      0      0  10.93      5     0       0
2000 Puras                   4       0      1      0      4      0     1       0
1998 Rabobank SHFC        2.03       0      0   2.03   2.03     0      0    2.03
1998 Randon                 7       0      3      0      7      0      3       0
1991 Rhodia-Ster          4.29    5.95     0       0   4.29   5.95     0       0
1995 Rhodiaco/PTA         17.5      0      0      15   17.5      0     0      15
1990 Ripasa               1.43       5      0      0   1.43      5     0       0
1997 Rodovia               35        0      0   79.5  33.07      0     0   75.13
1994/S.AIC.C.               0       0   6.87      0      0      0  6.87        0
1999 SEFBnitagem          1.25      0   0.19      0      0       0     0       0
1998 SGBB                   0    0.38       0     0      0   0.38      0       0
1987/97                                              SPAlpargatas        23.33       0      5      0  23.33      0     5       0
1994/95/97                                           Sadia                  27       0      9    144    27       0     9     144
1997 Samarco              15.3       0      0     12   15.3      0     0      12
1998 Saraiva                15       3      0      0     15      3     0       0
1998 ShanghaiKrnpp         30       0      0   68.8      0      0      0       0
1993 ShenzhenPCCP         3.76    0.99      0      0   3.76   0.99     0       0
1997 Sofia Hilton         10.8      0      2    9.5  3.27       0      2       0
1997 Sucorrico            13.5       0     0      0   13.5      0      0       0
1995 Suzhou PVC            22    2.48      0   22.2    22   2.48       0    22.2
1996 TIGRE               21.15       0      5  14.95  21.15      0     5   14.95
1992/93                                              TRIKEM                 -0       0      0      0      0      0     0       0
1998 TeconRio Grande     - 7.5      0    5.5    18   5.25        0   5.5  12.61
1993 Votorantim          10.43       0      0   0.71  10.43      0     0    0.71
1999 Vulcabras             20        0      0     0    20       0      0       0
1998 WIT                    5       0      0      0      0      0      0       0
1996 WeihaiWeidongri      4.13       0      0     0   4.13       0     0       0
1997 Wembley                0       10      0     0      0      10     0       0
1999 Wiest                  9       0      8      0      0      0      8       0
1993 Yantai Cement       12.47    1.95     0   6.66  12.47   1.95      0    6.66
1998 ZhenJing                0       2      0      0      0      2     0       0
TotalPortfolio:                           1134.31  246.97 118.56   1590 950.57 209.62 97.27 1308.98
Approvals Pending Conmmitmnent
Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic
1999 AutoBAn            35000        0      0 46000
1997 CTBC               35000        0      0 150000
1999 Cibmsec                0    7500       0      0
1998 CimaHemosillo       7000       0       0      0
1998 FSA                35000        0 10000 45000
2000 Fleury               9000       0  6000       0
1998 Fras-le                0        0      0 15000
2000 Frutera              7000       0      0      0
1996 Globocaboll            0       0       0 38000
1999 GrowthFund              0   5000       0      0
1998 GuineaSeguros          0  134.73      0       0
1999 InnovativeHS           0        0  6250       0
2000 InverCap                0    1000      0      0
1998 lpiranga-R12            0   92.07      0      0
1999 JOSAPAR             13000       0  7000       0



54                                           Annex VII
page 3 of 3
1999 MBRLTDP             20000       0  5000 115000
1996 Oxitemo/Ethylo          0    5000      0      0
1998 Rndon                   0       0      0  15000
2000 Rio Brvo            50000       0      0 65000
1997 SPAlpatasHI             0       0      0 30000
1997 Safari Intl.         2000     750      0      0
2000 SaItillo SA         35000       0      0 45000
1998 tUibanco            40000       0      0 250000
1997 Unipak-Nile             0       0      0  5000
Total Pending Commitment:                        288000 19476.8 34250 819000



55                                           Annex VIII
page 1 of 2
Brazil at a glance                                                             9,9/99
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  Income      Development dlamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                     165.9       502       588                  Lfe expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  4,570     3,940     4,860
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                    758.0      1,978    2,862
Average annual growth, 1992-S8
Population (%)                                        1.4        1.6       1.4
Labor force (%)                                       1.7        2.3      2.0      GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estmate (latest year available, 1892-8)                                capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  17
Urban population (% of total population)               80        75        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       67        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               34        32        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              6         8                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 69        75        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   16        13        11
Grossprimaryenrollment (S6doschool-agepopulation)     123       113       108              Brazi/
Male                                                 ..        ..        ..              Upper-middWincome group
Female                                               .._.._..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997      1998
Economic ratloe
GDP (US$ billions)                         176.2   294.1       820.4    750.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP               22.1     22.3       21.3     21.2                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            7.3      9.5        7.6       6.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  21.4     25.6       18.6     18.8
Gross national savings/GDP                  19.7    21.8        16.9      16.6
Current account balance/GDP                  -2.9     -0.5      -4.1      4.7      DomestG
Interest payments/GDP                        1.2      2.1        1.2       1.4     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                              23.9     40.7       23.6      28.2     si         +
Total debt service/exports                  42.5     41.7       57.4      67.7
Present value of debtGDP                       ..      ..       22.5
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    277.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997       1908   199-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.0      2.4      3.2        0.2       3.0               Brazi/
GNP per capita                      0.5      0.5      1.9       -1.4       1.0         -Upper-middlb-incoe group
Exports of goods and services      10.1      4.8      1.8        0.2       6.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1987      1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        12
Agricuture                                  14.7     10.0        8.1       8.6
Industry                                    38.6     45.9      35.2      37.5     
Manufacturing                              29.3     32.0      22.8      24.3     4
Services                                    46.7    44.1        56.7      53.9     o           9 '
Private consumption                         69.2     62.3       63.2      68.5    -4                    9r   97    r
General govemment consumption                9.4     12.2       18.1      12.7                     GDI    -GDP
Imports of goods and services                7.9      6.2       10.2      9.2                     G
1977487  1988-98      1987     1998      Growth ratesof exports and ImpoFts %)
(average annua/ grv/h)
Agriculture                                  3.5      2.5        1.9       0.5    40
Industry                                     2.7      1.8       5.5       0.5
Manufacturng                                2.3      0.7       3.8       0.5    20
Services                                     3.2      2.6        3.5       1.2
Private consumption                          3.6      5.3        2.4      -3.4     r /        r I rx       go    7    98
General govemment consumption                4.0      -1.5       8.0       2.1
Gross domestic investment                    -1.3     2.1        6.2       0.1   -20
Importsofgoodsandservices                    -2.6    13.4       13.9       8.9                -Exports    OImports
Gross national product                       2.7      2.0        3.3       0.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



56
Annex VIII
page 2 of 2
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1987      1898      Inflation I%
Domestic prIces                                                                     2
(% change)                                                                          3,000
Consumer prces                                                                               .    7228.3  6.9  2.7  2,000
Implicit GDP deflator                        46.2   204.1         7.8       0.0    Ioo  
Govenmment finance                                                                    5
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                   o      9- 3    9   9    96   97 9V
Current revenue                                ..    10.4        18.6      21.2    -1,000-
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.4        -1.8      -4.6                   GDP deflator  _   CPI
Overall surplusideficit                        ..    -2.8        -2.7      -5.7
TRADE
(US$ millons)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and Import tevels (US$ m(ititons)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  26,225    52,990    47,176      50,000
Coffee                                         .   2,185      3,094     2,505
Soybeans                                       ..   2,325     5,729     4,580    6050,0
Manufactures                                       14,331    32,736    27,601
Total imports (cifl                                  15,053    61,354   53,012      4,0      k    h     I       I        I
Food                                           .     500      3,290     2,961     20000o
Fuel and energy                                     4,674     3,220     3,903
Capial goods                                  ..   3,958    26,232    25,262         0
92  93  94  95  se  0769
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       78         96       92
Import prce index (1995=100)                   ..       81        95        84               HExporit      wImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       97        101      108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions) 
Exports of goods and services              13,003   28,073    56,831    55,479      2    t
Imports of goods and seMces                14,646   17,749    74,147    70,517
Resource balance                           -1,643   10,324   -17,316   -15,038      0
Net income                                  -3,469  -11,699   -18,331   -21,794        S2 93 1         14-
Net current transfers                           4      -43      2,216     1,886    -2t
Current account balance                     -5,108   -1,418   -33,430   -34,946    -4
Financing items (net)                       5,629      363    25,629    26,455
Changes in net reserves                      -521    1,055      7,801     8,491    58
Memo:                                                                                                                        I
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      7,256    6,420    51,729   43,366
Conversion rate (DEC, localJUS$)          5.14E-12   1.43E-8      1.1       1.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      CompositIon of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       42,037  119,820   193,663  212,069                        6298
IBRD                                      1,371    9,384      5,743    6,298                            s3tQ
IDA                                           0        0         0         0              49229              5264
Total debt service                          5,737   11,956    38,091    44,049                                    12644
IBRD                                        204    1,555      1,428    1,373
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               5       35         63       80
Official creditors                          415       10    -1,820    -2,571
Private creditors                         5,708     -690    19,890   -26,999
Foreign direct investment                 1,833    1,225    19,652    23,737
Portfolio equity                              0       78      5,300    -1,852                             133324
World Bank program
Commitments                                 319    1,394      1,104     1,291      A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               299      915      1,416     1,240   |  - IDA    D-Othermulabteral   F-Private
Prncipal repayments                         101      867      1,049      995      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   198       48       368       245   1                                            3
Interest payments                           104      688       380       378
Net transfers                                95     -641       -12      -133
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/9/99



