Document oI
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22275
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-25825; SCL-45420)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.06 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECOND SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
June 25, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Real
1 = US$ 0.42699
US$ 1 = 2.342
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          =             Country Assistance Strategy
CNIS         =             Unified Cadaster of Social Information
GDP          =             Gross Domestic Product
INSS         =             National Institute of Social Security
MPAS         =             Ministry of Social Security and Social Assistance
PROST        =             Bank's Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit
PAYGO        =             pay-as-you-go pension system
RGPS         =             Regime Geral de Previson Social
(Social Security Regime for Private Sector Workers)
RJU          =             Regime Juridico Unco
(Social Security Regime for Public Sector Workers)
S/SECAL      =             Special Sector Adjustment Loan
SPC          =             Secretaria de Previdencia Complementar
(Secretariat of the Complementary Pension System)
Vice President:    Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:   Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ms. Mariluz Cortes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  13
6. Sustainability                                                                      14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     17
9. Partner Comments                                                                    17
10. Additional Information                                                             18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  26
Annex 8. Matrix of Policy Actions under the First and Second S/SECALs                  27
Annex 9. Borrower's Comments                                                           30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P064901                                      Project Name: Second Social Security Special Sector
Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Mariluz Cortes                              TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Second Social Security Special Sector Adjustment   L/C/TFNumber: TF-25825; SCL-45420
Loan
CountryIDepartmeni: BRAZIL                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: SI - Pensions & Social Insurance
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/18/2000                              Effective: 06/29/2000        06/29/2000
Appraisal:  02/24/2000                               MTR:
Approval:  03/30/2000                             Closing: 12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/MINISTRY OF SOCIAL SECURITY
(MPAS)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                        David De Ferranti
Country Manager:     Gobind T. Nankani                         Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger                           Danny Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:   Mariluz Cortes                           Mariluz Cortes
ICR Primary Author:   Aniruddha Bonneree
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HIL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 .a Relevant context: The objectives of this loan are best viewed in light of Brazil's recent exposure to
increased economic and social vulnerability in the wake of the economic crises that swept through Brazil in



1997 -1998. Policy makers in Brazil have been forced to confront the fact that uncontrolled and growing
public sector deficits had undermined public confidence and exposed the economy to damaging extemal
shocks. Since almost two-thirds of public sector deficits (8% of GDP in 1999) comprise of social security
deficits (5% of GDP in 1999), any viable commitment to reduce public sector deficits should address the
financial imbalances of prevailing social security arrangements in Brazil. Equally significantly, the recent
economic upheavals have had a severe impact on the poor, especially those in rural areas and the elderly.
Against this background, the government's commitment and discipline in pursuing its fiscal stability
program, while at the same time preserving core social protection expenditures, is laudable. This operation
is part of a Bank package of adjustment loans totaling US$2.5 billion to help Brazil meet its external
financing requirements as it undergoes key structural and social reforms designed to bring public finances
into balance.
3.1.1 .b This loan is the second of two S/SECALS in support of Brazil's social security reform program. It
supports a reform program that aims to reduce the fiscal debt of Brazil's public pension system for private
sector employees - Regime Geral de Previdencia Social (RGPS). This pension system is the largest social
security regime in Brazil. It pays benefits to almost 18 million beneficiaries and collects mandatory
contributions from almost 30 million affiliates. The constitutionally guaranteed generosity of the scheme,
combined with system maturity and aging, implied rapidly increasing pension liabilities and hence the
prospect of rapidly increasing government fiscal liabilities. The fiscal deficits of the RGPS- about 1% of
GDP in 1999 - are expected to grow quickly to more than 5% of GDP within the next fifteen or twenty
years in the absence of any reform. In addition to fiscal balance, the reforms supported by this loan also
address social protection concerns related to children's education, equity, fairness, and institutional
development and depth.
3.1.2 Government reform framework: The objectives of the government's social security reform program
are described in the Letter of Sector Policy dated March 2nd, 2000, sent to the World Bank by the Minister
of Social Security and Social Assistance and the Minister of Finance. Given the complexity of the various
pension schemes and the demanding political economy consequences of reforms, the administration is
committed to a pragmatic 'phased' or 'progressive' agenda for pension reform that attempts to: (a) reduce
the fiscal deficit of the pension system; (b) curb the inequality in pension benefits between private and
public sector workers; and (c) extend individual choice by broadening the regime for complementary
pensions. The first phase of reforms would remove the legal and constitutional provisions that blocked the
government from pursuing serious social security reform efforts. The second and third phases of reforms
would then be aimed at improving the financial viability of specific regimes, improving governance and
increasing efficiency, so that future pensions would be more equitable and cost less to the government.
3.1.3  The First Social Security S/SECAL supported the first phase of the pension reform program in
Brazil, which centered on the approval of Constitutional Amendment 20/98, of December 1998. This
necessary and long debated amendment modified articles of the Federal Constitution of 1998 concerning the
main parameters of Brazil's multi-pillar pension system. It also adopted a number of emergency measures
to reduce the fiscal deficit of the pension regime for public-sector workers. The passage of Constitutional
Amendment 20/98 was an important milestone for social security reform, since it paved the way for further
social security reforms through ordinary laws and regulations. The Second Social Security S/SECAL was
tied to the second phase of the pension reform program which centered on reforms to achieve the financial
and actuarial balance of the RGPS. The main reform in the second phase of social security reform in
Brazil was the adoption of a new benefit formula for the RGPS which was expected to significantly reduce
the fiscal deficit of the system. The loan also supported the creation of a modern regulatory framework for
the System of Complementary Pension Funds (privately managed).
- 2 -



3.1.4  Bank policy framework: This loan was within the objectives established in the framework paper "
Special Program of Support for Brazil (SecM98-943)" of November 25, 1998, which outlined the Bank's
overall special support program for Brazil. The paper proposed a US$4.5 billion package of sector
adjustment loans to Brazil until end of fiscal year 2001 at special pricing and maturity, plus a 1% front-end
fee. The framework paper noted that the 1997 CAS (discussed in the Board on June 12, 1997) and the
1998 CAS progress report (discussed on June 2, 1998) acknowledged that Brazil could be subject to
external shocks. In such an event, if the government responded with corrective policy measures, the CAS
proposed to respond quickly with financial support for reforms in such areas as privatization, social
security, and safety nets. The external shock materialized in late 1998, and the government responded with
a strong reform program in the area of social security to improve the long-term actuarial imbalances of the
social security system, which accounts for about two thirds of the overall government fiscal deficit.
3.1.5  The First Social Security S/SECAL for US$757.57 million was presented to the Board on January
6, 1999, in support of Constitutional Amendment 20/98. The framework paper indicated that a second
social security S/SECAL would be presented to the Board at a second stage in support of the
implementation of the Constitutional Amendment through enabling legislation, which would determine, to a
large extent, the scope of the reforms made possible by the amendment. Accordingly, the Second Social
Security S/SECAL was designed to support the second phase of pension reform which consisted primarily
of the adoption of a new benefit formula for the RGPS. It was determined that the reform of the Social
Security Regime for Public Servants (RJU), envisaged for the third phase of reforms, could be supported
by regular adjustment loans.
3.1.6  Timing and desi,gn: This operation was timely and well designed. At the time of loan preparation,
Brazil was recovering from the external shocks of late 1997/98. The government had indicated its interest
to draw only US$1.5 million under the special support program and let the remaining US$2.0 billion lapse.
Nevertheless, the government was expecting a current account deficit of about US$23 billion in the year
2000, and counted on the Bank loan to meet its external financing requirements. Thus, the timing of this
operation was useful in helping Brazil meet its external financing requirements during very difficult times,
while benefiting from the opportunity to protect key social sector areas. The operation was well designed
from several important points of view: (i) it was based on rigorous analytical work; (ii) it ensured the
preservation of the pension benefits of the poorer sectors of the population; and (iii) it had a programmatic
approach which was well suited to the political difficulties inherent to pension reform in Brazil; and (iv) it
had important synergy with other Bank lending and non-lending forms of support for Brazil's social
security reform program. Comments on each of these follow:
3.1.6.a Strong analytic foundations: The Bank support for pension reform in Brazil is based on a
rigorous analytical effort in the social security/labor area. The main conclusions of the analytical work on
pension reform, underway since 1998, have been synthesized in "Brazil: Critical Issues in Social Security".
Draft Report No. 19641-BR, November, 1999. This report showed the need to reform the two
pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) regimes of Brazil's pension system - the RJU and the RGPS - in order to reduce
their fiscal deficits. The overall pension deficit in 1999 was US$27.6 billion, about 5% of GDP. Without
reform, the pension deficits for these two schemes could reach about 11% of GDP by the year 2020. The
accounting deficit (receipts minus expenditures) in the RGPS was estimated at about US$5.1 billion (0.9%
of GDP in 1999). The deficit of the public servants RJU (including Federal, state and local RJ`Us) was
estimated at about US$22.5 billion in 1999 (4.1% of GDP). Although currently the fiscal deficit of the
RJU is much larger than that of the RGPS, projections indicate that future deficits of the RGPS will exceed
RJU deficits in about ten to fifteen years. Furthermore, given that the 18 million beneficiaries and 30
million contributors of the RGPS, labor market and equity considerations are significantly higher compared
to the RJU. Finally, in the face of system wide adjustments in benefits prompted by these reforms, it was
- 3 -



necessary to ensure that the benefits of the elderly poor, widows and widowers contributing to the RGPS
were not scaled down. Thus, the Bank was right in deciding to support the reform of the RGPS regime
under the second S/SECAL operation.
3.1.6.b The use of innovative analytic tools (PROST): In the course of project preparation, the task team
utilized the Bank's Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit (PROST) to estimate the effects of the new
benefit formula for the RGPS regime. Under the assumptions made, the simulations showed sizable fiscal
savings from the new benefit formula in the short, medium, and long-term. The reformed RGPS showed a
positive fiscal balance by 2003, and a rise in the surplus to almost 1% of GDP by 2010, instead of a deficit
of 2% of GDP, without the reform. The Bank analysis concluded that if implemented rigorously, and if
accompanied by a tightening of the other RGPS programs like "Old Age" and "Disability", the reform
promised significant fiscal and labor market efficiency benefits. The Bank also supports Brazil's program
of social security reform with two Learning and Innovation Loans (LILs) which, inter alia, support the use
of actuarial models by states to diagnose the nature and severity of their pension problems, and by the
National Institute of Social Security (INSS) for the design of the new pension parameters consistent with
the principle of actuarial balance.
3.1.6.c Significant pro-poor implications: In Brazil the Old Age Pensions represent about one third of all
social security benefits. About 80% of the beneficiaries of the Old Age Pension Program are women and
2/3rds of all rural pensioners are in the Old Age Pension Program. A study by a Government agency
shows that families with Old Age pensioners have, on average, 14.5% higher income than families without
them, and that Old Age pensioners contribute, on average, to about 52% of their family's income. In
designing the loan, the Bank strongly supported the Government's efforts to ensure that the social
protection subprogram covering the very elderly and rural workers was not changed by any reforms to the
benefit formula of the RGPS. These reforms target the parameters of the Length of Service Pension
Program, largely corresponding to urban, male, formal sector workers. The eligibility and benefit
parameters of the Old Age Pension Program, mostly for the poor, women and for rural workers, are not
affected by the reforms, and are in fact protected since these pensions have been shown to serve as an
important "rural farming insurance" mechanism. The provision of a guaranteed minimum level of income
reduces income shocks typically associated with the agricultural sector. To receive an Old Age Pension, a
person must have contributed for 15 years and be 65 years or older. Rural workers can retire under the
Old Age Program five years earlier (60 years for men and 55 years for women). Although the actuarial
coefficient can be used to calculate the Old Age Pension, the worker can choose to have the new formula
applied only if the application of the actuarial coefficient results in a higher pension with the new formula
than with the old. Also, there is a minimum wage past which the new formula will not be applied to
calculate retirement benefits. Since the majority of Old Age pension beneficiaries make the minimum
wage, the parameters of their pensions are not changed.
3.1.6.d Programmatic approach to support pension reform in Brazil:  The Bank was judicious in
choosing to negotiate a medium-term reform strategy and allocate its reform goals over a series of
single-tranche adjustment operations, rather than trying to lock the government into an overly ambitious
and politically sensitive policy agenda. The programmatic approach, in which the medium-term strategy is
outlined in the first loan, but implemented through a series of successive loans, has proven to be a very
effective lending instrument in support of policy reforms in environments where external and domestic
economic shocks may be likely.
3.1.6.e Synergy generated with other forms of Bank lending and non-lending support to the Government.
In addition to the strong analytical work described above, the Bank has supported the Government's
program of Social Security reform with a number of lending and non-lending instruments. This concerted
- 4 -



approach has generated strong synergy in support of pension reform in Brazil. Most importantly are two
LILs: one in support of the use of actuarial models by states to diagnose the nature and severity of their
pension problems, and the other in support of new solutions for the restructuring of Brazil's pension
administration agencies: INSS and the Secretariat for Complementary Pension System (SPC), for the
design of the new pension rules through the application of actuarial models to determine new parameters
consistent with the principle of actuarial balance, and for the technical training of staff in the Ministry of
Social Security and Social Assistance (MPAS). In addition, the Bank has played a key role in providing
Brazilian policy makers with access to international experience and state-of-the-art literature on social
security reform through the holding of seminars and the publication of reports in Portuguese.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives remained unchanged.
3.3 Original Components:
The S/SECAL was a one tranche adjustment loan in support of up front measures taken by the
Government to reform the RGPS and strengthen the regulatory framework of the Complementary Pension
Funds System.
3.4 Revised Components:
The loan components remained unchanged.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  Quality at entry was satisfactory. The operation was well timed and well designed. During the loan
preparation phase, Brazil was still recovering from the financial crises of the last few years and hence
remained vulnerable due to continuing, albeit declining, fiscal and current account deficits. Support for
reforms to the RGPS which would lead to sizable fiscal savings in the near future was well justified.
3.5.2  The objectives of the loan were realistic and important for Brazil. In designing the reform the Bank
took into account that pension reform would be unusually difficult in Brazil compared to other countries
because benefit rules and eligibility criteria are embodied in the Federal Constitution adopted in 1988.
Constitutional Amendment 20/98 eliminated the eligibility rules and benefit levels for the RGPS from the
constitution thereby making it possible to design new and more efficient parameters through enactment of
specific laws.
3.5.3  The implementing agency had already been working in close collaboration with technical
specialists from the Bank on pension issues and thus were well equipped to deal with the technical
complexities of the reform process, having been trained in the use of sophisticated pension simulation
software and attended relevant pension seminars and conferences.
3.5.4  The reforms to the RGPS benefit formula were in tandem with efforts to update human resources
and information systems of the INSS - reforms that would greatly facilitate the implementation of RGPS
reforms.
3.5.5  Reforms to the RJU would require an amendment to the constitution once again - a process that
requires 3/5th approval in both houses of parliament, twice. Since there was little political motivation to
- 5 -



engage in yet another round of constitutional changes following so quickly on the heels of the previous
constitutional amendment, the Bank was correct in supporting the reforms aimed at the RGPS while
continuing its technical assistance support and policy dialogue with the Brazilian authorities towards a
possible future reform of the RJIU system.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  This S/SECAL has achieved its intended objective of supporting the reform of the RGPS system
aimed at reducing the system's fiscal imbalance and, therefore, contributing to fiscal adjustment. All
policy reform measures supported by this S/SECAL were implemented prior to Board approval of this
loan, and it is expected that the project would achieve all its major relevant objectives with substantial
developmental and institutional results. The achievement of objectives is rated as satisfactory since they
have had the effect of: a) reducing fiscal liabilities of the RGPS and hence potential public liabilities; b)
providing better incentives and linkages between contributions and benefits, with due consideration towards
actuarial balance; c) promoting institutional depth and development; d) providing an effective old age
safety net for the poorest workers; and e) providing incentives and motivation for the RJIJ to engage in
cost saving reform measures. It is also expected that the provision in the new legislation of tying family
allowances to children's school attendance would provide a positive encouragement towards increased
school attendance. All these measures are indeed in accordance with the general thrust of government social
security reform policy in Brazil that ultimately aims to a) reduce fiscal deficits b) reduce the disparity
between private and public sector workers, and, c) extend and modernize complementary pension regimes.
The specific measures implemented under this operation and expected outcomes are described in the
following paragraphs.
4.1.2 The Regime Geral de Previdencia Social - (RGPS), is administered by the Federal Government's
INSS, from which 18 million Brazilians receive pension, disability and survivor benefits, and to which
about half of the labor force of 60 million make compulsory contributions. Constitutional Amendmnent
20/98, supported by the Bank's First Social Security S/SECAL, accomplished the following with respect to
the RGPS:
*  removed the definition of the benefit formula from the 1988 Constitution (from the average of 36
months salaries), and stated the need to establish, through ordinary laws and regulations, a new
benefit formula that would meet the principles of fiscal and actuarial balances. However, a
provision to introduce a minimum retirement age under the RGPS failed to be approved by
Congress;
*  eliminated special pension regimes, except for school teachers and some risky occupations;
*  adopted years-of-contributions instead of years-of-service for benefit eligibility;
*  eliminated early retirement with a partial pension (70%), with transition rules;
*  set a ceiling on retirement benefits indexed to inflation;
*  expanded the contribution base to all work-related earnings;
*  allowed income taxes to be levied on pension and survivor benefits of persons over 65 years old;
and,
*  opened the work injury insurance program to the private sector.
4.1.3   At the time these reforms were being implemented, modest fiscal impacts were expected as a result
of the elimination of the early retirement option (aposentadoria proporcional) with reduced benefits
- 6 -



(70%). A larger fiscal impact was expected to be felt later on, as a result of adopting a new benefit
formula that would respect the principles of actuarial and fiscal balance, as mandated by the Constitutional
amendment.
4.1.4 Main Reform of the RGPS supported by S/SECAL II. The main reform supported by this loan
was the enactment of Law No. 9876, of November 26, 1999, which introduced a new formula for the
calculation of pension benefits under the RGPS, established new rules for contribution to the RGPS by
self-employed persons, created incentives for such persons to join the system, established higher fines for
evasion and incentives for debt settlement, and, conditioned payment of family allowances (salrio-familia)
to children's school attendance. The regulation of this law was approved in December 1999 through a
Presidential Decree. The new formula incrementally extends the reference wage to eventually include a
worker's entire working life, and establishes an endogenous accrual rate determined by years of
contribution and life expectancy at retirement for old and new entrants to the labor force. A primary
objective of these reform measures is to reduce the fiscal deficit of the RGPS, while contributing to
institutional development and depth and providing for an enabling social protection environment for rural
workers in Brazil.
4.1.4.a New benefit formula: The new law establishes that the RGPS pensions should be based on the
entire work history but, to protect workers with highly variable eamings (such as women), the average
pension will be based on 80% of the highest annual wages over the working life. Under the new formula,
pensions are now defined as Sb=M*f Sb is the pension level, M is the average of the 80% highest
contribution wages indexed by past inflation, and f f=[(tc*a/Ex)*(l+(age_r+tc*a)/100)], where
tc=contribution time, a=total contributions(0.31), Ex=life expectancy of insured worker, age_r-age at
retirement. is an actuarial coefficient ('fator previdenciario') that depends on two components. The first
part of the actuarial coefficient formula equilibrates the contribution period of each insured worker to the
average time the benefit is received (life expectancy at retirement, by age). The second part of the actuarial
coefficient is a "bonus" given to insured workers, the size of which is increased based on how long they
have worked and the age at which they retire. For the first time, therefore, conditions are being introduced
to encourage workers to keep working, even after meeting all the legal qualifications for retirement. A rule
of transition is included through a gradual application of the actuarial coefficient over five years.
4.1.4.b Actuarially fair incentives: Sensitivity analysis showed that for the long-run finances of the
system, whether or not RGPS participants actually respond to the incentive to work longer that is built into
the new benefit formula is relatively unimportant. The main reason for this relative "neutrality" of fiscal
outcomes to behavioral responses is that these incentives are almost actuarially fair. That is, the additional
amounts workers will pay in as contributors if they work longer sum up to roughly the expected additional
amounts they will receive in pension benefits.
4.1.5  Estimates of the effect of the new reforms, using PROST are presented in Figure 1, which plots
RGPS fiscal deficits as a percent of GDP under the base case (no reform), the amendment ending
Aposentadoria Proporcional, and the new benefit formula using the following assumptions: (i) women and
men delay retirement until 60 and 65 years of age, respectively; and (ii) 20% of retirees in the age bracket
48/53 years - 60/65 years switch to the Old Age Scheme, which is not modified by the reform and has only
a 15 year contribution requirement and slightly lower benefits. It is estimated that this causes a 10% drop
in revenues and a 4% drop in expenditures. Although the final impact on the fiscal deficit of the RGPS will
depend to some extent on behavioral responses of people switching to the Old Age pension scheme, it is
easy to demonstrate that the long run fiscal savings from the overall reform are much greater than the
uncertain costs imposed by those with incentives to switch to the Old Age scheme.
- 7 -



4.1.5.a Estimates of the total sum of net present value of deficits, also known as the financing gap, are
shown to reduce by almost 75% over a 50 year time horizon implying significant potential fiscal efficiency
gains as the new benefit formula becomes effective at retirement over the next ten to twenty years. The
reduction in projected deficits may have important anti-poverty implications if resources are directed
judiciously over the next few decades.
2.00% -
0.00%     , AAgAAAAAAA
*'td..4 o        °o- tA X                (^.    c)       x N  I  0  W-    'I (N  rC  c
-200  o  c.* o~ X         o   o    000000000000 oo  oo
-2.00% -  *s C vq *q   es .q N  N   As       N  (NS (N  (  (N  CS C(  OS  (N  (N  (N
-4.00%                                        AAAAAAA .   *^A0.  AA
-6.00%                        *            AAA
-8.00%                                                    AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA^
Ak~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
-10.00%
-1100%                           ~                           ~_
-14 6.00%
-16.00%                                                          AAAAjL
A  Fator Previdenciaro .Cornstitutional Amendment * Base Case - No reform 
lFigure 1: Modeling the fiscal deficits of the RGPS with the new benefit formula
4.1.5.b Under the assumptions made, these simulations showed sizable fiscal savings from the new benefit
formula in the short, medium and long-term. The reformed RGPS shows a positive fiscal balance by 2003,
and the surplus rises to almost 1% of GDP by 2010-2015 instead of a deficit of 2% of GDP without the
reform. The surplus is projected to continue until the year 2020. The RGPS returns to deficit again after
2020 due to the effect of population aging. However, the deficit with reforms (':fator previdenciario ") is
only half of the deficit without any reform (base case). Empirical data from 1998 and 1999 confirms that
deficits are approximately 1% of GDP.
4.1.5.c Fiscal savings in the new benefit system come primarily from the following: (i) a reduction of the
average replacement rate from about 100% of reference salaries to about 70%-75% of current levels
through the introduction of the new benefit formula; and (ii) lengthening of the reference period gradually to
(almost) the full working life. Lengthening of the reference period also reduces benefits because reduced
replacement rates are applied to a reduced base. Furthermore, increasing the reference period has the effect
of flattening the extraordinarily high rates of return accruing to the richer members of the scheme and
therefore makes the scheme more equitable. Although rapid population aging would exert some serious
demographic pressures on the social security system provided by the RGPS, if implemented rigorously, and
if accompanied by a tightening of the other RGPS programs - Old Age and Disability - the reforms would
have significant fiscal efficiency benefits.
4.1.6   The primary contribution of the reform measures undertaken within the context of the Second
- 8 -



S/SECAL is to improve the fiscal balances of the RGPS and, therefore, of the Government. When the time
comes, the Brazilian society will have to decide on further reform measures and on the degree of fiscal
subsidy that they are willing to accept to provide an old age safety net.
4.1.7 By allowing no radical changes to the Old Age Program for pensions, whose beneficiaries are
mainly rural workers with fairly uncertain labor market histories, the administration has maintained an
important safety net in place for Brazil's rural workers who can be assured of a standard pension when
they retire from productive life. The new benefit formula also ameliorates the impact of individual labor
market uncertainty by using only the highest 80% of life time wages in the pension calculation. This serves
as an important redistribution safety net for women and men alike.
4.1.8  Secondary Reforms of the RGPS. In tandem with the primary reforms affecting the benefit
formula, there were some important secondary reforms of the RGPS implemented in the context of this
sector adjustment operation. These reforms are expected to buttress the fiscal and equity implications of
this adjustment operation. They include:
4.1.8.a Incentives to expand coverage among the self-employed: .According to the old law, entrepreneurs,
the self-employed and optional insured workers did not qualify for maternity benefits. Law 9876 of 26
November 1999 eliminates this restriction. Before the new law was enacted, the self-employed were forced
to stay a minimum number of years in each level of the wage scale. The new law introduced more
flexibility, allowing contributions to increase or decrease according to the worker's income. This measure
is coherent with the new benefit formula based on 80% of the highest contribution wages, as it permits the
worker to pay the highest contribution as possible in order to reach higher benefits after retirement.
Another important provision of the law involves the reduction of the contribution for the self-employed
when they are rendering services to firms. With this new rule, the worker can lower his contribution rate
from 20% to  11%. The contracting firm must pay a social security contribution of 20%, calculated over the
value of the services agreed. This change facilitates the formalization of the relation between the
self-employed and companies, aiming at expanding the coverage of these emerging labor relationships.
Finally, the law reduces by 50% interest penalties on late contributions of the self- employed as an
incentive for workers to regularize their situation with the INSS.
4.1.8.b Incentives for school attendance: Law 9876/99 also conditioned payment of family allowances
(salario-familia) to children's school attendance thereby providing attended incentives to boost school
attendance and recent government statistics suggest a welcome decrease in the incidence of child labor in
Brazil.
4.1.8.c Criteria to avoidfraud in the program for disability:. The criteria for temporary and perrnanent
disability program were revised by Presidential Decree 3048 of 6th May 1999, with the objective of
avoiding fraud in the concession of disability benefits. The Decree includes new rules for medical
determination of eligibility and limiting concession of disability benefits to cases where it is possible to
establish a clear link between the task performed by the worker and the related disease. Tightening of
disability benefits to avoid fraud is an important but often overlooked secondary reform that enhances the
positive effects of the primary reforms designed to lower overall deficits.
4.1.8.d Measures to formalize legal penal actions against perpetrators of crimes against the social
security system: Law 9983 of July 14, 2000 defines crimes against the social security system and the
corresponding penalties.
4.1.8.e Measures to enhance portability: Presidential Decree 3112, of July 6, 1999, regulates the financial
-9-



compensation that is required to be effected between the RGPS and the RJU as a result of the transfer of
workers from one system to the other, after the promulgation of the Borrower's Constitution.
4.1.8.f Measures to improve the regulatory framework and enhance institutional credibility and depth:
The National Monetary Council has issued resolutions to guarantee the security and solvency in the
application of the funds with social security purposes, having the Brazilian Central Bank as intermediary.
Among the subjects regulated are the ways of acquiring shares from companies that are linked to the social
security funds, as well as the application of sources derived from patrimony alienation that are linked to the
funds in the form of assets and rights of any nature.
4.1.8.g Measures to enhance institutional capacity of the MPAS/INSS: Recent advances in INSS
restructuring add institutional depth and capacity to the institution. They include: (i) full consolidation of
all social security and labor information registers under the Unified Register of Social Information (CNIS),
an important advance to improve control over work histories and collections, and to establish individual
contribution accounts; (ii) adoption of a new organizational structure for INSS approved by the Executive
and being implemented; (iii) initiation of a review of temporary disability pensions; and (iv) initiation of a
program to improve public relations through a network of social security agencies. A Bank learning and
innovation loan supports the INSS restructuring efforts, particularly in the area of strategic planning. The
bulk of the Bank's technical advice for the second phase of the reform program is being provided directly to
the state governments through a special unit in MPAS, to evaluate the fiscal health of their RJU plans, and
assist in the design and regulation of the new Complementary Funds. These funds would fall under the
regulatory auspices of the SPS.
4.1.9 Secondary Reforms for the Complementarv Pension System. Funded plans are a new institutional
vehicle to complement the retirement incomes of civil servants that is gaining popularity among state
governments. Despite the relative sophistication of Brazil's capital markets, present coverage of these
plans is low due to the lack of transparency and a regulatory framework for their efficient operation.
Funded plans to supplement RJU benefits are being proposed, and state governments are especially keen on
offering these funds to employees. Some states such as Bahia, Parana and Rio de Janeiro have already
taken steps to establish funded plans. Santa Caterina is considering the option. The Complementary Funds
for civil servants are promising from a political economy point of view, in that they allow state
governments to offer their workers a "new deal" consisting of lower but more dependable pensions, rather
than simply confronting them with a cut in their benefits. The Constitutional Amendment provided that in
three months the Government had to prepare and present three key Complementary Laws to regulate the
Complementary Pension System. The Brazilian legislative process distinguishes Complementary Laws
from Ordinary Laws: while there is not hierarchical distinction between the two kinds of law, the
Complementary Laws require a special quorum of deputies to be present for a vote to be taken, and are,
therefore, much more difficult to pass in Congress. However, two of these laws were approved by Congress
in April 2001, and it is expected that the third law will clear Congressional approval by August 2001.
Specifically, these laws address the following objectives:
4.1.9. a Setting up a regulatory and governance structure: [Complementary bill of law No. 63/99]. This
bill of law received congressional approval on April 24, 2001 and awaits formal Presidential sanction. It
establishes the rules for the functioning of the complementary pension fund system, and the operation and
supervision of the complementary pension entities. It introduces new vesting and benefit rules to protect
workers' interests and allow for the portability of acquired rights. This law regulates the whole sector of
complementary pension system, both open and closed funds, replacing Law No. 6465/77.
4.1.9.b Enhancing management parity and insulating administration from sponsors: [Complementary
- 1 0 -



bill of law No. 01/00]. This bill of law was approved on April 25, 2001 and awaits formal Presidential
sanction. It regulates the institutional relationship between the public sector, at the federal, state and
municipal level, as sponsor of pension plans and the administration of the respective pension funds. It also
sets requirements for the management of the Government Complementary Funds, establishing the principle
of "management parity" between the sponsoring employer and beneficiaries of the new plans. Furthermore,
the law also introduces guidelines for the administration of the plans, to avoid conflicts of interest and
misuse of the funds.
4.1 .9.c Enhancing transparency and accountability[Complementary bill of law No. 09/99]. This bill was
submitted to Congress and is being debated in the national congress. This law establishes the rules for the
establishment and operation of complementary pension funds by the public sector at the federal, state and
municipal level. This law would require that the new government sponsored Complementary Funds,
regardless of at what level of government they are established - to fall under the supervision of the Federal
Secretariat of the Complementary Pension System, currently within MPAS. The new funds would be
required to meet the same actuarial and disclosure guidelines as the rest of the plans in the system.
Additionally, the law would allow organizations and entities, other than single companies, to offer pension
plans, extending the right to set up a complementary plan for industry and trade associations as well as
unions.
4.1.10 These three Complementary Laws aim to: (i) modernize the institutional framework of the SPC,
originally established in 1977; (ii) establish the institutional relationship between government bodies and
complementary pension plans, as well as the governance structure of the new funds; and (iii) allow
government as employer, at the federal and state level, to establish complementary funds for civil servants
to supplement RJU benefits, and ensure equal regulatory requirements with those regulating existing funds
for private sector workers.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  All policy reform measures supported by this S/SECAL were implemented prior to Board
presentation of the loan. Annex 8 reproduces the policy matrix of the loan, detailing the measures taken
under each policy area covered by this operation, progress made since effectiveness, and the main elements
expected in the third phase of financial policy reforrns. The measures taken prior to Board presentation
were the following:
4.2.2  Main Reform:
Entry into force of Law No. 9876, of November 26, 1999, which introduced a new formula for the
calculation of the pension benefits under the RGPS, established new rules for contribution to the
RGPS by self-employed persons, created incentives for such persons to join the system, established
higher fines for evasion and incentives for debt settlement, and conditioned payment of family
allowances (salario-familia) to children's school attendance.
4.2.3 Secondary Reforms:
A) Reforms of the RGPS:
Submission to the Borrower's Congress of Bill of Law No. 9983, of July 14, 2000, which defines
crimes against the RGPS, and establishes the corresponding penalties.
- 11 -



Issuance of Presidential Decree No. 3112, of July 6, 1999, which regulates the financial
compensation that is required to be effected between RGPS and the social security system for the
public sector workers as a result of the transfer of workers from one system to the other, after the
promulgation of the Borrower's Constitution.
Issuance by the Borrower's National Monetary Council of the following resolutions:
*  No. 2651 of September 23, 1999, which regulates the acquisition by any financial
institution fully owned by the Borrower of shares of sub-national companies allocated to
pension funds of the States and Municipalities. The term "sub-national companies" means
companies controlled by the States and Municipalities, which are included in privatization
programs; and,
*  No. 2652 of September 23, 1999, which regulates investments of pension funds instituted
by the Borrower, the States and the Municipalities.
Issuance of Presidential Decree No. 3048 of May 6, 1999, which approved the new regulation of
the RGPS, including, inter alia, a revised criteria for eligibility under worker's temporary and
permanent disability programs.
Consolidation under one information system of all registers regarding workers under the RGPS;
approval and implementation of a new organizational structure for the INSS; implementation of
re-certification of worker's temporary disability pensions; and launching of a program to improve
attention to the public through the establishment of new service agencies by the INSS.
B) Reforms of the Complementary Pension System:
Submission to the Borrower's Congress of the following Bills of Complementary Laws:
*   Senate No. 63/99, which establishes the rules for the functioning of the complementary
pension fund system, and the operation and supervision of the complementary pension
entities.
*   Senate No. 01/00, which regulates the institutional relationship between the public direct
administration of the Borrower, at the Federal, State and Municipality level, as sponsor of
complementary pension funds, and the administration of their respective pension funds;
and,
*   House of Representatives No. 09/99, which establishes the rules for the establishment and
operation of complementary pension funds by the public direct administration of the
Borrower, at the federal, State and Municipality level.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.41.1 Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
- 12-



4.5.1  The institutional development impact of the operation has been high, particularly at the level of the
MPAS and the INSS. These institutions have evolved as a consequence of actions taken within the context
of these adjustment operations to update their structure, human capital, and modes of operation. The TNSS
as well as the MPAS have been exposed to greater institutional accountability and transparency.
Regulations targeted at the complementary pension regimes would promote institutional diversity and
development within the financial sector of Brazil as these pension funds mature.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1  The policy reforms supported by this operation were implemented before Board presentation of the
S/SECAL and, in that sense, implementation was highly satisfactory and not subject to factors outside the
Government's control. However, there were political factors outside the control of the Government that
affected how soon the policy measures already taken produced the intended outcomes. One such factor has
been Congress' failure to approve, in a timely manner, one of the Complementary laws presented by the
Government (that would regulate the Complementary Pension System for civil servants).
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  As indicated, the policy actions supported by this operation that are subject to Government control
have been implemented satisfactorily. The implementation of the major rules and regulations that were
necessary to put the wheels of reform in progress were performed satisfactorily, despite political
opposition.
5.2.2  The continued commitment of the Government to curtail public deficits would receive a positive
boost from the expected reduction in social security deficits. Continued labor market improvements and the
continued evolution of Brazil's rapidly growing financial sector would also buttress the expected positive
impacts from these reform measures.
5.2.3  One of the factors that could affect the outcome of this reform is that the reform reduces the rates
of return to the Length of Service Pension Scheme and thus implicitly makes it more attractive for some
individuals to switch to the Old Age Pension Scheme. To the extent that this happens, the potential benefits
from the reforms to the Length of Service Pension Scheme may be compromised.
5.2.4  However, recent empirical data available at the time of preparing this ICR does not confirm the
presence of any significant spikes in the membership of the Old Age Pension Scheme. This suggests that
either this switching impact is irrelevant in the case of Brazil or simply not yet evident. The technical
analysis underlying the design of this scheme does, however, cautiously assume that approximately 20% of
individuals who are eligible to retire under the Old Age Scheme but belong to the Length of Service Scheme
would switch to the Old Age Scheme. Future social sector adjustment operations should track the extent of
this switch since it may induce the need to fine tune the parameters of the RGPS further.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
- 13 -



Not applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The sustainability rating of the RGPS reform supported by this loan is highly likely. Several
reasons support this conclusion:
* The constitutionality of the new benefit formula was challenged by opposition parties, but on
March 14, 2000, the Supreme Court reaffirmed the constitutionality of this reform. Despite
this ruling, the implementation of the benefit formula could be challenged in the courts in the
future. However, Constitutional Amendment 99/20 establishes the principles of actuarially and
fiscally balanced pension regimes. In the absence of a minimum retirement age for private
sector workers, the only way to reduce the imbalance of the RGPS is with the adoption of a
benefit formula linking benefits to contributions.
*   The Govemment is very committed to support the reform of the RGPS in order to preserve
gains made in reducing fiscal deficits and restoring macroeconomic equilibrium. In addition,
the recently approved Fiscal Responsibility Law is an added incentive for the Govemment to
preserve the balance of the system.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.1.1  Although the RGPS reform supported by this loan is an important step in the right direction, there
is a major unfinished agenda to fully reform Brazil's pension system. Future needed reforms of the RGPS
should include:
*   a significant reduction in the contribution rates of the RGPS, which with other payroll taxes,
are among the highest in developing countries. This reduction is necessary to improve the
competitiveness of Brazil's producers and reduce the high levels of informality in the labor
market;
* separating the social assistance component of the RGPS (pensions for low income earners,
rural workers) from the RGPS (to be funded directly from the budget),
*   revising reform parameters if necessary based on the incentive behavior observed in the Old
Age Scheme and the Length of Service Pension Scheme,
*   implementation of a proposal to shift most government employees from the RJU regime to the
RGPS, and,
* Planning for the second round of major reforms, if necessary, to be implemented before the
advent of RGPS fiscal deficits in the future.
6.1.2  As the President's report suggests, by far the most important part of the unfinished reform agenda
is the reform of the RJU, which continues to be a mounting burden on Brazil's public resources. Available
analyses indicate that this can be accomplished through a variety of routes as described below. However,
the most important actions to reform the RJU would be the approval of a constitutional amendment to
- 14 -



change the RJU benefit formula and the Hauly Amendment.
*  Increase in RJU Contributions. Although disappointed by the Supreme Court's decision in
September 1999 to overturn attempts to increase contributions, the Govermment has responded
with plans for a flat increase of Federal RJU contributions from active civil servants from the
current 11% to as much as 14%. Several states such as Pemnambuco, Amazonas and Parana
have adopted schemes with contribution rates around 14%.
*   Constitutional Amendment to introduce pension contributions by RJU retirees.  The
Administration has, with the support of 24 state governors, submitted a second constitutional
amendment to Congress in November 1999, that would legalize the collection of contributions
from retired RJU workers.
*  The Hauly Amendment.  A recently added clause to the draft Amendment (the Hauly
Amendment) would require that all new hires into the civil service accrue pension benefits
under the parameters of the RGPS. This would, over time, effectively close the RJU and unify
the two pension regimes into a single system, which is one of the reform program's most
important long term goals. This is a necessary step in the reform process that will staunch the
growth of new unfunded liabilities and contribute to greater equity between the pension
systems of the private and public sectors. Even so, the transition period between the time when
the current generation of entitled civil servants stop receiving RJU benefits, and when the
majority of government workers are entitled only to benefits under the RGPS, will be quite
long.
3  Constitutional Amendment to change the RJIJ benefit formula. The proposal to eliminate the
benefit formula for the RJU system was not approved by the Constitutional Amendment of
December 1998. However, the amendment mandates that all pension systems should be
actuarially and fiscally balanced. It is difficult to envisage how this requirement could be
accomplished without a new benefit formula that links benefits to contributions. Changing the
benefit formula would require another Constitutional amendment.
6.1.3  The Bank has continued to provide technical support to the Brazilian authorities through ESW on
pension related issues, and through the implementation of the "Social Security Technical Assistance
Learning and Innovation Loan, and the TF05825, which finances technical work on alternatives for
reforming the RJU system. This work would be the basis for a possible Third Social Security Adjustment
Loan in support of a future reform of the RJU system. The likelihood of such a reform is not high at the
moment, but the mounting deficits of the RJU system and the glaring inequalities between the reformed
RGPS and the unreformed RJU will be difficult to ignore for much longer.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  The Bank's lending performance was satisfactory. The Bank devoted substantial attention to the
identification, preparation and appraisal phases, with considerable dialogue with stakeholders and
counterparts in Brazil. The technical analysis underlying the reform proposals were of an exceedingly high
standard with inputs and guidance from local stakeholders and counterparts.
- 15-



7.1.2  Identification: In identification, the Bank's performance was satisfactory, since the operation was
very well timed and in accord with the objectives of the Brazilian Government, as well as with the criteria
identified in the CAS documents for Brazil. As part of a series of social security reformrn measures, this
operation was well coordinated with previous reform efforts and sets up the framework for future reformns
to other pension regimes.
7.1.3 Preparation: The Bank's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Bank fielded a
comprehensive mission which included expertise in financial analysis, human resources, social protection
and economics. The Bank has been congratulated for engaging its counterparts in very constructive
dialogue and debate about the structural weaknesses of their pension systems. The preparation phase was
supported by very high quality analytical sector work that allowed policy makers in Brazil to work with
Bank experts towards a credible and feasible reform strategy despite political economy concerns.
7.1.4  Through a basket of lending and non-lending technical assistance, the Bank trained a team of core
of the MPAS authorities in the use of its Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit (PROST), initiated
the collection of data and better monitoring of state and municipal pension plans, assisted in the drafting of
crucial legislative items, launched an institutional audit of the INSS, and, sustained complex policy
dialogue with policy makers during very difficult socio-economic and financial conditions in Brazil. The
Bank included in its team working on social security issues a former head of the Argentine Social Security
Agency and a former Acting Commissioner of Social Security in the USA, who shared their considerable
experience with the MPAS authorities.
7.2 Supervision:
Not applicable since all effectiveness conditions were satisfied prior to Board Presentation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall bank performance was satisfactory. Through this operation, the Bank continued to play a
supporting role in assisting the borrower to articulate policy options, evaluate proposals for action, redirect
priorities, and generally formulate and implement a coherent program of social security reform.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in identification and appraisal is assessed as satisfactory. There was very
close dialogue and cooperation between the Borrower and the Bank that allowed for the emergence of a
feasible and credible social security reform program. The MPAS had spent considerable human resources
in acquiring the latest technical tools to analyze various reform options and prepare for the challenges of
pension reform.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower has fully complied with the provision of the S/SECAL II.
Government performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory. Despite the severe economic and
social shocks prompted by the financial crises that prevailed in Brazil during 1997/98, the tenacity and will
of the Government to reduce its social security deficits and preserve core social protection sectors is
laudable. However, the failure to mandate a minimum retirement age for the RGPS implies that future
- 16 -



generations will have to be faced with constant benefit formula changes since the Government is committed,
by the constitutional amendment, to preserve actuarial balance in the system. The government signaled its
willingness to continue to modernize retirement income systems in Brazil by recently approving legislation
pertaining to the regime for complementary pensions.  Unfortunately, recent political economy
considerations preclude any immediate progress on pension reform issues.
In terms of its own three pronged reform agenda consisting of a) reducing fiscal deficits b) eliminating
disparities between public and private sector pension benefits and c) extending and modernizing
complementary pension regimes, these reform efforts make commendable progress on all three fronts.
However, as indicated, the reform agenda is still incomplete and important provisions related to the RJU
system need to be implemented if the government is indeed to be fully successful in its social security
reform aspirations.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not applicable.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    A programrnmatic approach to support pension reform could be relevant for pension reform since it
allows for a series of modular or sequential reform packages. This has direct relevance when future reforms
hinge on vital, but politically difficult choices the borrower must implement. It controls the risk of
non-performance by conditioning future programs based on current performance. Currently reforming
pension regimes in sub Saharan Africa as well as the middle-east would benefit greatly from studying the
mechanisms of these adjustment operations in Brazil.
8.2    Protecting key social protection sectors during adjustment operations may yield positive payoffs in
terms of improved poverty indicators following the aftermath of economic shocks.
8.3    Successful pension reform  requires substantial dialogue, discussion and debate with local
counterparts, policy makers and experts. Towards that end, the present pension reform agenda in Brazil
took its roots through a series of seminars, debates and training sessions organized jointly by the Borrower
and the Bank. This mode of technical dissemination has very high payoffs in terms of guiding countries
towards appropriate policy reforms.
8.4    Technical assistance and knowledge dissemination are very effective de-politicizing tools. The
widespread training of PROST - a toolkit developed by the Bank for analyzing pension reform - in Brazil
stirred debate and dialogue as the structural weaknesses of these plans became evident to policy makers,
experts and other relevant stake holders.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's comments are presented as Annex 9
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 17 -



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 1 8 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Not applicable because this is an adjustment
operaton.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  ActuaULatest Esimate
Not applicable because this is an adjustment
operation.
End of project
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActualLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.
Total Baseline Cost                                  0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs             0.00            0.00
Total Financing Required              0.00           0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method t
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB          Other:       N._._ Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
:   ProcureenOt Method'30   i;;0 0
Expenditure Category     ICB        ProNCR entMethoder22        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
-20 -



5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                          0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
I___   (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
505.06                          505.06                         100.0
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Perfor ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    hnplementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/2000                      1   Principal Operations
Officer/Task Manager
I   Senior Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/2000                      1   Principal Operations
Officer/Task Manager
1   Lawyer
I   Social Protection Specialist -
Pensions
1   Human Resources Economist
-Social Protection (Pension
Reform Sirnulation)
Supervision
04/2000                           One tranche loan: no
supervision required
ICR
05/2001                      1    Principal Operations Officer
I    Economist (Pensions)
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('00O)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                    13.75                       58.48
Supervision
ICR                                      4.90                        20.71
Total                                    18.65                       79.19
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                            C H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
OSectorPolicies                            OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Financial                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development                O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
E Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction                 C H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Gender                            O H *SUOM O N O NA
1 Other (Please specify)            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
School attendance
* Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
I Lending                                             OHS OS  OU  C:HU
* Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU   OHU
Z Overall                                             O HS * S   O U  C) HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                         O HS * S  0  U  C) HU
[  Government implementation performance              0 HS * S  0  U  C) HU
O Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  () U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS   0  U  (C) HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 1998 CAS Progress Report, Report No. 19937, May 6, 1998.
- Project Appraisal Document: Brazil, State Pension Reform Technical Assistance Loan (LIL), Report No.
17965- BR, June 3, 1998.
- Framework Paper on the Program of Support to the Federative Republic of Brazil, SecM98-943,
November 25, 1998.
- President Report for the First Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan. Report No. P7277-BR,
December 10, 1998.
- ICR for the Brazil Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan (SSSECAL) Loan No.4431-BR,
Report No. 19966-BR, December 2, 1999.
- Project Appraisal Document: Brazil, Social Security Technical Assistance Loan (LIL), Report No.
19956-BR, January 19, 2000.
-"Brazil: Critical Issues in Social Security", Report No.19641-BR, June 19, 2000.
- 26 -



Additional Annex 8. Matrix of Policy Actions under the First and Second S/SECALs
FIRST S/SECAL                    SECOND S/SECAL                ACTIONS EXPECTED IN
THIRD PHASE
Reform to System for Private Sector Workers (RGPS)
Congress  approved  constitutional  Primary Reform(s)                a   Poverty impact of the new
amendment in 12/98 that paved the  Congress  adopted  new  benefit       benefit formula with
way for key social security reform. In  formula  for  the  RGPS  and      special attention to
particular, the amendment:          introduced other improvements to      households headed by
a   Removes the definition of      the pension system by entry into      women.
pension benefits from the       force of Law No. 9876, of 11/99.  a   Studies investigating
constitution.                   Regulations for this law  were       switching and substitution
a   Eliminates special pension      approved in 12/99 through two        between the two 'regimes'of
regimes except for school       presidential   Decrees     and       old age and length of service
teachers and some risky         supporting administrative acts. The  pensions to determine the full
occupations.                    provisions of this law:              impact of the reforms and the
a   Adopts years of contributions   a   Introduces a formula with a      necessity for modifications if
instead of years of service for     Fator Previdenciario for         any.
benefit eligibility.                calculating pension benefits
a   Sets a monthly benefit ceiling      for old and new entrants to
indexed to inflation at            the work force. This formula
RI ,200/month.                      bases pensions on years of
a   Permits income taxation of          contribution and life
pension benefits.                   expectancy at retirement.
a   Broadens the wage base for social  a   Establishes new rules and
security contributions to include   incentives for the self-
all work related earnings.          employed to seek coverage
under the RGPS.
a   Conditions payment of family
allowances  to   children's
school attendance.
a   Establishes    fines    and
incentives for clearing debt
settlements.
Secondary Reform(s)
Enactment of law No 933/99 that
defines crimes against the RGPS
and   establishes  corresponding
penalties.
Issuance of Presidential Decree No.
3112 of 6/99, which regulates the
financial compensation that is
required to be effected between
the RGPS and the RJUs as a result
of the transfer of workers from one
system    to   another   after
promulgation   of  the   1988
Constitution.
Issuance of Presidential Decree No.
3048, of 5/99 which approved new
regulations for the RGPS including
tighter  eligibility  criteria  for
temporary    and    permanent
disability.
- 27 -



Reforms to System for Public Sector Workers (RJU)
Congress  approved   constitutional                                 a   Implementing the Hauly
amendment in 12/98 that makes the                                       Amendment (imposing
system   contribution   based   and                                     contributions on
mandates  financial  and  actuarial                                     pensioners).
balance. In particular, the amendment:                              a   Increasing contributions of
a   Introduces retirement based on                                      active workers.
period of contribution rather than                              a   Requiring new entrants to
period of service.                                                  enter the RGPS.
a   Introduces minimum tenure for                                   a   Adopting new benefit
eligibility to pensions.                                            formula for RJU pensions to
a   Eliminates the possibility of                                       conform to the principles of
receiving multiple pensions or                                      actuarial and fiscal balance.
both pensions and labor income.                                     (Would need constitutional
a   Fixes minimum retirement age at                                     amendment).
53/48 (M/F) with a gradual                                     a   Introduction of means test
transition rule to 60/55 (M/F).                                     and age limit for survivor
a   Provides for the establishment of                                   pensions.
complementary pension funds by                                 a   Revision of criteria for
the federal government, states                                      temporary and permanent
and municipalities,                                                 disability programs.
a   Eliminates early retirement
provisions with transition rules.
a Permits the taxation of survivor
and pension benefits of those over
65.
a   Sets a maximum ceiling on
benefits equal to the highest civil
service salary permitted.
Congress approved General Public
Pension Law that:
a   Ends special regimes for
municipalities with less than a
certain number of contributors.
a   Introduces automatic adjustment
of contributions when total
pension payments less
contributions exceeds a certain
share of state and municipal
revenues.
a   Forbids the provision of benefits
not included in the RGPS system.
a Establishes a maximum ratio of
2:1 for the share of employers and
employee contributions.
a Establishes punitive measures on
states, Federal government and
municipalities for failure to
comply with established pension
regulations
- 28 -



Reforms to Complementary Pension Fund System
Congress  approved  constitutional  Approval of the following bills of  a   Implementation of the
amendment in December 1998 that:    Complementary Law:                  provision of the
Prohibits public sector entities  a   Senate No. 63/99 which        constitutional amendment
from making higher                 establishes the rules for the    by the establishment of
contributions to complementary     functioning of pension funds     complementary pension
pension funds than employees       and sets up supervisory and      funds at the federal, state,
within two years of approval of    regulatory arrangements.         municipal levels as well as
the amendment.                 a   Senate No. 01/00 which          trade associations.
Eliminates fiscal subsidies to     regulates the institutional  a   Establishment of a single
complementary pension funds of     relationship between the         regulatory agency to regulate
public enterprises.                public direct administration     closed and open ended
Forbids contribution of resources  of the government of the         pension funds in Brazil. A bill
of public sector entities to       borrower as the sponsor and      of law for the establishment of
complementary pension funds        administrator of their           a new agency has been sent to
except as sponsors.                respective complementary         the President.
Requires complementary pension     pension funds.
funds sponsored by public sector  In addition to the above laws,
entities to revise benefit plans  House  of Representatives  No.
and adjust them actuarially to  09/99,    awaiting    approval,
assets within two years of the  establishes   rules   for   the
amendment.                     establishment and operation of
complementary  pension  funds
instituted by the public direct
administration at the federal, state
and municipal levels.
Reforms to improve the INSS administration
a   Improved measures to increase    a   Consolidation of all registers    a   Master plan for computer
compliance and contribution        regarding RGPS workers           based information system to
collections.                       under a single information       be implemented.
a   Adoption of new questionnaires     system.                      a   Meet benchmarks on
to collect individualized      a   Approval and implementation      efficiency, revenue
information on worker's labor      of a new organizational          collection, and reduction of
market and contribution history.   structure for the INSS.          fraud.
a   Implementation of a new system    a   Implementation of re-     a   Institute fraud control unit
to track the largest 10,000        certification for temporary      in INSS.
contributors.                      and disability benefits,     a   General Previdence fund
a   Launching of a program to       created
improve customer relations    a   Social communication
and client services through     strategy implemented.
the establishment of modern    a   New criteria for disability
service agencies.               implemented in all states.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Comments
MINISTRY OF SOCIAL SECURITY
DEPARTMENT ["SECRETARIAT"] OF PUBLIC PENSIONS
TECHNICAL NOTE 19/01
Brasilia, June 15, 2001
COMMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (REPORT NO.
22275) PREPARED BY THE WORLD BANK ON THE "SECOND SOCIAL SECURITY
SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN" IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.06
MILLION FOR THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
This loan is part of an operation undertaken by Brazil with the World Bank, totaling US$2.5
billion, to help the country meet its external financing needs and maintain macroeconomic
stability. This portion, amounting to US$505.06 million, relates to support for measures already
adopted by the Brazilian government in implementing the second phase of the Social Security
Reform during the years 1999 and 2000, and is supplementary to the first phase, which was
undertaken in the context of Constitutional Amendment No. 20 of December 1998. These
measures have helped to strengthen the country's fiscal situation and to restore external
confidence in Brazil.
The operation was not intended either for funding investments or for reimbursing expenditures
already made by the Ministry of Social Security -- MPAS or the National Social Security Institute
-- INSS. The funds were used solely to cover foreign currency expenditures in order to maintain
the level of international reserves.
The MPAS rates as highly satisfactory the results achieved by the Brazilian government in terms
of reforming the pensions system for private sector workers-- RGPS, and reversing the previous
tendency to explosive deficit growth. According to World Bank projections, shown in items 4.1.5
and 4.1.5b of the Implementation Completion Report, the reform will allow the system to operate
in equilibrium as of 2003 and to achieve a surplus of 1% of GDP between 2010 and 2015, before
returning to deficit in 2020. Without the social security reform supported by the World Bank, the
deficit would have grown steadily to 4% of GDP in 2020. Simulations conducted by MPAS are
less optimistic: they project the deficit stabilizing at around 1% of GDP through to 2020, as a
result of the reform. It is clear that further reform efforts will be required if the situation is to be
kept in balance after 2020, but the achievements of the last two years have provided the system
with some breathing room over the medium term, during which solutions for future generations
can be considered and debated.
Beyond its financial and actuarial impact, the social security policy in recent years succeeded in
eliminating distributional distortions, and in fact played a key role in reducing poverty levels.
With the introduction of the new benefit calculation formula pursuant to Law 9876/99, the value
- 30 -



of benefits is now directly related to the contributions, age and life expectancy of each person
insured. It, therefore, encourages people to remain in the workforce and penalizes those who opt
for early pensions (which were, of course, the most costly ones). A further innovation lies in the
fact that life expectancy is now one of the variables in the formula, and this represents an
automatic mechanism for adjusting the value of benefits to demographic trends, using the
mortality table updated annually by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics -- IBGE.
Another feature of the reform was to protect the poorest social groups who take retirement at age
65 (for men) and at age 60 (for women), with a reduction of five years in retirement age for
designated beneficiaries in rural areas. At the same time, the policy pursued in recent years of
making real increases in the minimum wage, which sets the floor for social security benefits, has
led to a gradual reduction in poverty levels, something that was not adequately addressed in the
document.
In order to demonstrate the effect of the social security system on reducing poverty, an exercise
was conducted using data from the National Household Survey (PNAD/IBGE), to simulate what
would be the current level of poverty in Brazil, and how it would evolve, in the absence of the
social security program. Those findings are shown in Graph 1: if transfers made under the
pension system are excluded, the ratio of people living in poverty would have been 45.3% in
1999, instead of 34%. Thus, at the present time, social security expenditure is responsible for a
reduction of 11.3 percentage points in the level of poverty, which means that it were not for the
social security system, we would have 14.2 million additional persons living in miserable
conditions, a fact that shows the importance of this public policy as one of the pillars of social
stability in Brazil.
This social role of the pension system has recently been reinforced to be used as anti-cyclical
means to reduce the impact of economic crisis and to contribute to a virtuous circle of economic
growth with social and political stability.
If we analyze poverty trends over recent years, we find that in 1988 42.3% of the population was
living below the poverty level, and if income transfers through the pensions system are excluded,
the poverty level was actually 47.9%. Thus, in 1988 the social security system was already
responsible for keeping at least 5.6% of the population above the poverty line.
- 31 -



Graph 1: The Social Security System and Poverty in Brazil (1988 to 1999)
60,0 l
p
0
0                                 50,1    51,2
R  00    47 9
R         47      46,1    46,4                                                  45,3
P40,0  i2    40,3 0    407    40B    41,7     3,7    43,2   43,9    43,5
"gq     40 _    40 ,7   T40E                                -        '' 
P                                              3319    33,5    319            3410
Source:PNAD-1992to 1999327
P    30,0                                      .
U  ~   ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ;:~M
L
A        R
t 20P0   leR8
T
1'~~~~~~~'
N  10,0  -   ,                          ,
1988    1989    1990    1992    1993   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
'pe  Observed Poverty Line    Poverty Line Excluding Social Security
Source: PNAD - 1992 to 1999
Note: The PNAD was not conducted between 1991 and 1994
Preparation: IPEANDIPOS/SPS/MPAS
Note: Poverty line= R$98.0o
Between 1988 and 1983, despite the persistence of chronic inflation and economic stagnation, the
poverty level remained stable at between 40% and 41.7%. This was possible only because of
nowth in social security spending, which helped to alleviate the economic crisis. In 1993, were it
not for social security transfers, the poverty level woubld have been 51.2%, or 9.5 percentage
points higher than that observed.
Between 1993 and 1995 the impact of price stabilization on poverty reduction can be clearly
obseirved. The higher purchasing power of the poorest groups meant an immediate reduction of
7.8 percentage points in the level of poverty between those two years.
In the post-Plan Real period, between 1995 and 1998, poverty levels stabilized at between 33.9%
and 32.7%. From 1998 to 1999, the poverty level rose by 1.3%, reflecting the macroeconomic
impact of the shift in exchange rate policy in January 1999. Had it not been for the mitigating
impact of social security policy, poverty would have risen by 1.8%, which means that the impact
of the new macroeconomic policy would have been 38.4% higher. Between 1998 and 1999
alone, social security expenditure prevented 801,700 people from slipping into poverty.
- 32 -



Between 1988 and 1999, the poverty level declined from 42.3% to 34%. If we look at the impact
of higher social security spending post-1 988 in isolation, as in Graph 2.6, it will be seen that 67%
of the decline is explained by the expansion of social security vis-a-vis the situation in 1988, and
that this alone led to a reduction of 5.7 percentage points in the poverty level.
During this time, if the economy had stabilized without any increase in social security coverage,
the poverty level would have been reduced by 2.6 percentage points, declining from 42.3% in
1988 to 39.7% in 1999. Adding the 5.7% impact of social security, we arrive at the current level
of 34%. In short, during this time 9.1 million people rose above the poverty line thanks to the
growth of social security spending.
Graph 2: Impact of Higher Social Security Spending on Poverty Levels in Brazil
(1988 to 1999)
o                     Poverty line without increased social security spending over 1988 levels
0
R   45 r--~~~   
0
-' j                                          [/  n\Ipact of Increased Soial Security Spending
U 40 -
A
T        Observed Poverty Line
I 
o 35
N
(%)
1988    1989    1990     1992    1993    1995      1996    1997    1998    1999
Years
Source: PNAD - 1992 to 1999
Note: The PNAD was not conducted between 1991 and 1994
Preparation: IPEA/DIPOS/SPS/MPAS
Note: Poverty Line= R$98.0
These results can be corroborated by comparing poverty levels among different age groups
against certain variables.  As Table 2.1 shows, the poverty level among social security
beneficiaries is 40.6% lower than for the rest of the population, while incomes per capita are
32.6% higher.
- 33 -



Table 1: Ratio of Beneficiary Households to Total Households, using selected
criteria - 1999
Beneficiary        Total        %
households (A)      (B)         (A/B)
Household income per capita(R$)       395          298          32.55
Living in poverty (percentage)        20.2         34.0         (40.59)
Minors (percentage)                   18.1         19.5         (7.18)
Elderly household heads (percentage)  56.6         20.6         174.76
Source: PNAD - 99
Prepared by: IPEA
We feel that the World Bank should incorporate an analysis of these social impacts in its
Implementation Completion Report, since combating poverty is one of the greatest challenges
facing developing countries as they struggle to reconcile economic growth, social development
and the prevalence of democratic institutions.
The World Bank's technical cooperation in implementing these reforms can be considered
satisfactory. Although proceeds from the loan were not applied directly to the Brazilian Social
Security system, the Bank supported the reform process through two Learning and Innovation
loans - LIL. The first was contracted with the Ministry of Finance to support reforms in the social
security regime for state government employees. The second went directly to the MPAS, and has
been very useful in strengthening the entire process of reforming social security for public servants
at the federal, state and municipal levels, as well as the complementary pension system and the
social security system for private sector workers, and for administrative strengthening of the
INSS.
Among the activities planned under these LILs we should highlight the importance of the
investment in training and professional qualifications for technical staff of the Brazilian
government. The World Bank has played a key role in providing Brazilian policymakers with
access to international experience and state-of-the-art literature on social security reform. Thus,
instead of proposing or instigating specific reform models, the Bank has helped to create and
strengthen the national technical capacity to formulate social security policies so that the
government's own experts can seek out the most appropriate solutions for the Brazilian system.
Brazil's experience, indeed, shows that the best investment a country can make is in its human
capital.
Similarly, the holding of seminars and the publication of reports in Portuguese are excellent
vehicles for disseminating ideas and raising awareness of social security problems. In this respect,
a significant event was the preparation and publication in 2000 of the paper on "Critical Issues for
Brazilian Social Security".
We should also note the use of the software program, the Pension Reform Options Simulation
- 34-



Toolkit -- PROST, as an instrument for making long-term projections. At the same time, rather
than making projections for national systems, the World Bank should transfer software
development technology so that countries can build their own, customized programs to fit their
specific circumstances.
Finally, as a suggestion for future operations, we believe that it is important to strengthen the
social communication component. Sound public policies alone will be of little help unless we can
persuade opinion makers and the public in general of the importance and merits of those policies.
One of the persistent obstacles facing social security reform in Brazil has been the lack of public
understanding about the problems that must be addressed.
Vinicius C. Pinheiro
Secretary of Public Pensions
Ministry of Social Security
- 35 -



