Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4542-BR
Loan Agreement
(Second Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 12, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4542-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 2000, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to the loan provided to the Borrower under the Loan 
Agreement dated March 9, 1999 (Loan No. 4431-BR), the Bank has provided assistance to 
the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Borrower's program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower's social 
security systems applicable to private and public sector workers (the Program), as 
such program was described in the letter, dated December 9, 1998, from the Borrower to 
the Bank;
(B)
the Bank has received a letter, dated March 2, 2000, from the Borrower: 
(i) describing its macroeconomic framework and the Program as revised since the date 
of the letter referred to in (A) above, which Program consists of actions taken under 
the first phase referred to in (A) above, actions taken as described in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement (the Second Phase of the Program), and actions and policies that the 
Borrower intends to take and adopt in the near future; (ii) declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Second Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower 
by making the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as 
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the second phase of the program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the 
Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
a new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read: 
“If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full amount then due 
and payable 
to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall have the right to allocate 
and apply the 
amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the Loan Agreement as the Bank 
shall in its sole discretion determine.”
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan 
Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.”;
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General 
Conditions.”; 
(e)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the second phase of the program 
referred to in the Preamble to 
the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower 
and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”;  
(g)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08; and
(h)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read: 
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following terms have the following meanings when 
used in this Agreement: 
(a)  
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)  
"INSS" means Instituto Nacional do Seguro Social, the Borrower's 
institute for social security;  
(c)  
“Municipality” means any of the Borrower’s municipalities; 
Page  3
(d)  
"RGPS" means Regime Geral de Previdência Social, the Borrower's social 
security system for private sector workers; and 
(e)  
“State” means any of the Borrower’s states and the Federal District. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five hundred 
five million sixty thousand Dollars ($505,060,000). 
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of five hundred million 
nine thousand four hundred Dollars ($500,009,400) from the Loan Account in support of 
the Second Phase of the Program.
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the 
Borrower's central bank a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  All withdrawals of the amount referred to in paragraph (a) 
above shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c)  
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equivalent to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
Section 2.06.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus 4 (four) percentage points.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
Page  4
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate for each 
Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01.  The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed 
action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Second Phase of the Program, or any action 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 4.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program, as measured on the basis of indicators 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Borrower's central bank.
Section 4.03.  The date August 14, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 5.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
Page  5
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 
   70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério da Previdência e Assistência Social
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “F” – Sala 936
70059-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Brasília, D.F., Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Ana Lúcia Gatto de Oliveira 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
Page  6
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112              -
Alcoholic beverages
121              -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122              -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes)
525              -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718           718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728           728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897           897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971              -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
Page  7
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)* 
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 2003
through January 15, 2005
      126,265,000
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3 
Second Phase of the Program 
RGPS 
1.
Entry into force of Law No. 9876, of November 26, 1999, which introduced a new 
formula for the calculation of pension benefits under the RGPS, established new rules 
for contribution to the RGPS by self-employed persons, created incentives for such 
persons to join the system, established higher fines for evasion and incentives for 
debt settlement, and conditioned payment of family allowances (salário-família) to 
children's school attendance. 
2.
Submission to the Borrower's Congress of Bill of Law No. 933/99, which defines 
crimes against the RGPS, and establishes the corresponding penalties therefor. 
3.
Issuance of Presidential Decree No. 3112, of July 6, 1999, which regulates the 
financial compensation that is required to be effected between RGPS and the social 
security system for the public sector workers as a result of the transfer of workers 
from one system to the other, after the promulgation of the Borrower's Constitution.
4.
Issuance by the Borrower's National Monetary Council of Resolutions: 
(a)
No. 2651, of September 23, 1999, which regulates the acquisition by any 
financial institution fully owned by the Borrower of shares of sub-national companies 
allocated to pension funds of the States and Municipalities.  The term “sub-national 
companies” means companies controlled by the States and Municipalities, which are 
included in privatization programs; and 
(b)
No. 2652, of September 23 1999, which regulates investments of pension 
Page  8
funds instituted by the Borrower, the States and the Municipalities. 
5.
Issuance of the Presidential Decree No. 3048, of May 6, 1999, which approved the 
new regulation of RGPS, including, inter alia, a revised criteria for eligibility 
under workers' temporary and permanent disability programs. 
6.
Consolidation under one information system of all registers regarding workers 
under the RGPS; approval and implementation of a new organizational structure for 
INSS; implementation of re-certification of workers' temporary disability pensions; 
and launching of a program to improve attention to the public through establishment of 
new service agencies by INSS.
Complementary Pension Fund System
7.
Submission to the Borrower's Congress of the following Bills of Complementary 
Laws:
(a)
Senate No. 63/99, which establishes the rules for the functioning of the 
complementary pension fund system, and the operation and supervision of the 
complementary pension entities;
(b)
Senate No. 01/00, which regulates the institutional relationship between 
the public direct administration of the Borrower, at the federal, State and 
Municipality level, as sponsor of complementary pension funds, and the administration 
of their respective pension funds; and
(c)
House of Representatives No. 09/99, which establishes the rules for the 
establishment and operation of complementary pension funds by the public direct 
administration of the Borrower, at the federal, State and Municipality level. 
