Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18848-BEN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR18.9 MILLION (US$25.5 M. EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR THE FIRST DECENTRALIZED CITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 13, 1999
Water and Urban Group 2 (AFTU2)
Central and Western Africa
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate EffectiveN/A)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 1= US$ 0.0019
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 550
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABF.      Agence Beninoise pour l'Environnement     LSC       Local Steering Committee
(Beninese Environmental Agency)          MEHU    Ministere de l'Environnement, de i'Habitat et de
AFD        Agence Fran,aise de Developpement                 l'Urbanisme (Ministry of Environment, Habitat
AGETUR   Agence d'Execution des Travaux Urbains               and Urban Development)
(Urban Works Implementation Agency)     MISAT    Ministere de l'Interieur, de la Securitd et de
API,      Adaptable Program Loan                              l'Administration Territoriale (Ministry of Interior,
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                         Security and Land Administration)
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency   MOF     Ministry of Finance
CIS1U     Community Initiative Support Unit        MOP        Ministry of Planning
COIl      Collaboration                            NCB        National Competitive Bidding
C:ON      Consultation                             NDF        Nordic Development Fund
CU        Circonscription Urbaine (urban area with a  NDC     Neighborhood Development Committee
special semi-autonomous status)          NGO       Nongovemmental Organization
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency   NS         National Shopping
ERR       Economic Rate of Return                   NPV       Net Present Value
EU        European Union                           PA         Project Account
FAC'      French Assistance and Cooperation         PIM       Project Implementation Manual
GDID       Gross Domestic Product                   PIP       Priority Investment Program (CU)
GO1      Governent of Berin                                  Public Investment Program (Central Government)
HDM III  Highway Design and Maintenance Standards   PPD       Planning and Progranuning Department
Model III                                PTI       Program of Targeted Interventions
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and  QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
Development                              SERHAU  Societ d'Etudes Rdgionales dHabitat et
ICB       Intemnational Competitive Bidding          -SEM    d'Amdnagement Urbain
IDA       International Development Association     SIL       Sector Investment Loan
IS        Infornmation Sharing                      SMEs      Small and Medium Enterprises
ISC       Interministerial Steering Conmmittee      SOE       Statement of Expenditures
KfW       Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau           UDD       Urban Development Department
km(s)     Kilometer(s)                              USAID    United States Agency for International
LAC'I     Loan Administration Change Initiative               Development
LFIvIT    Local Finance Monitoring Unit             VOC       Vehicle Operating Costs
LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Theodore 0. Ahlers
Sector Manager:    Letitia A. Obeng
Team Leader:    Hedi Larbi



BENIN
FIRST DECENTRALIZED CITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                 3
2. Project development objective                                                       5
3. Key performance indicators                                                          5
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                   9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  9
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project                      11
3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        16
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                           16
2. Financial                                                                          16
3. Technical                                                                          16
4. Institutional                                                                      17
5. Social                                                                             17
6. Environmental assessment                                                           18
7. Participatory approach                                                             18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     19
_j_



2. Critical risks                                                                       19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      21
G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                            21
2. Other                                                                               21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summaly                                                           24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          44
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    46
Annex 5: Financial Summary (N/A)                                                          48
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedub                                                       57
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                        58
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             62
Annex 11: Loan Administration Change Initiative                                           64
Annex 12: Letter of Sector Policy                                                         66
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 28525
_jj_



BENIN
First Decentralized City Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Office of the Director
Date: May 13, 1999                                  Teamn leader: Hedi Larbi
Country Manager/Director: Theodore 0. Ahlers        Sector Manager/Director: Letitia A. Obeng
Project ID: 35648                                   Sector(s): UU - Urban Development
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Poverty Reduction, Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan          Implementation Period           Borrower
(Bank FY)
IDA             Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
USS m     %       USs m       USS m        Date         Date
APL  i        25.5    7.9       8.1         33.6       09/01/99   06/30/2003 Government of Benin
Loan/
Credit                      O_Gan___Guranee                  O_Ohe_(Secfy
APL 2         29.9    85.4      5.1         35.0    01/01/2003   06/30/2006 Govemnment of Benin
Loan/
Credit     stOthers:
APL 3
Loan/
Credit
APL 4
Loan/
Credit   _____
,Total        55.4   ____       13.2   1    68.6                            3
Project Financing Data
El Loan         Z Credit         B Grant        EB Guarantee      El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m) 25.5
Proposed Terms: O To be defined  M Multicurrency El Single currency
B Standard Variable C: Fixed         El LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               40
Commitment fee:                  0.5%
Service charge                   0.75%
Finacincg Plan: '- L To be defined
Source                               Local          Foreign         Total
Government                                                        2.62           0.00           2.62
IBRD                                                              0.00           0.00           0.00
IDA                                                              12.15           13.35         25.50
Agence Fran,aise de Developpement                                 0.60           4.80           5.40



BENEFICIARIES                                                     0.11            0.00          0.11
Total:                                                           15.48           18.15         33.63
Borrower: Government of Benin (GOB)
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Interior, Security and Land Management (MISAT); Ministry of Environment, Habitat and Urban
Development (MEHU); Municipal governments of Cotonou, Parakou and Porto Novo
Implementing agency(ies):
Societe d'Etudes Regionales d'Habitat et d'Amenagement Urbain (SERHAU)
Address: 32-34 rue 390 (Route de Lome), B.P. 2338, Cotonou, Benin
Contact Person: M. Bachir Oloude
Tel: (229) 30 02 09                Fax: (229) 30 06 26                Email: serhaugsyfed.bj.refer.org
Agence d'Execution des Travaux Urbains (AGETUR)
Address: 01 BP 2780, Recette Principale, Cotonou, Benin
Contact Person: M. Lambert Koty
Tel: (229) 31 36 45/31 28 30               Fax: (229) 31 26 73                Email: agetur@qintnet.bj
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
I 2000      .200         2002
Annual    6.05           9.50         9.30
Cumulative    6.05         15.55        24.85
Project implementation period: FYOO-02
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/99  Expected closing date:  06/30/2003
OCS APL PAD Form: October 9, 1998
-2-



A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The APL purpose is to provide better quality and cost-effective basic services to urban residents, especially
the poor, of Benin's three main cities (Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou). These cities were chosen as
they have the special status of "circonscription urbaine" (CU) and have the appropriate technical and
financial structures on which to build. The APL is part of a larger urban sector program which also
includes a Sector Investment Loan (SIL) for secondary cities and a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) for
an urban land privatization pilot.
The APL consist of two phases of three years each; the proposed project represents the first phase. The
APL consists of three main components: (a) municipal management strengthening; (b) basic urban
infrastructure construction/ rehabilitation; and (c) community participation and integration. For
Component 1, the first phase will support diagnoses, strategy development and capacity building,
particularly in municipal finance. Once a certain level of capacity has been reached (see
indicators/triggers), the second phase will focus on strengthening performance and implementing actions
identified by diagnoses. The first phase will also support studies for development of two separate projects:
a SIL for secondary cities and a LIL for urban land privatization. It is expected that these operations will
be prepared and launched during the first phase. Component 2, consisting of basic infrastructure
construction and rehabilitation, will focus in the first phase on priority works for which the CUs have
demonstrated their capacity to finance maintenance. For this reason, during the first phase, works will start
only in Cotonou and Porto Novo. Parakou's maintenance capacity is currently strained by large donor
investments underway and limited financial resources. During the second phase, once the CUs have
increased their revenues and demonstrated greater capacity to program and implement maintenance, a
larger amount of infrastructure projects will be implemented; priority works will commence in Parakou.
For Component 3, 5 neighborhoods will be selected for participation in the first phase; this may be
expanded for the second phase. The first phase consists of selection of an implementing NGO,
establishment of Neighborhood Development Committees (NDCs) and Community Initiatives Support
Units (CISUs) in the CUs, community mobilization and awareness-building, technical studies and
launching of neighborhood projects (identified during project preparation), development and dissemination
of project development guidelines, identification, development and launch of microprojects. The second
phase will continue neighborhood projects and community microprojects identified during the first phase,
support community maintenance capacity building, support CISU expansion of operations to other
neighborhoods, and may expand to include other neighborhoods in community mobilization,
awareness-building, projects and microprojects.
-3-



The phasing of the components is as follows:
Component                     First Phase (proposed project)    Second Phase
1. Municipal Management        *  Organizational/institutional   *  Ongoing strengthening of CU
Strengthening (CU governments     analyses of CUs and line       departments and line
and line ministries)              ministries                     ministries (training, technical
* Adjustment of CU               assistance, equipment)
departments and line
ministries (staffing, training,  * Increase municipal finance
restructuring, equipment,     mobilization and recovery
management tools)             rates
*  Municipal finance analysis    * Improve expenditure
and reform (rationalize tax   allocations and accounting
basis, recovery system for    system
locally and centrally      * Privatization of urban
administered urban taxes,     services (marketplaces,
improve financial             parking, infrastructure
management system and         maintenance)
budget monitoring)         * Support to build private
*  Privatization of urban        sector capacity to provide
services (analysis,           urban services.
feasibility, action plan, pilot
project preparation/
implementation             *  Continued technical
* Technical department support    department support (technical
(organization and staffing,   audits, staff restructuring,
procedures manuals,           specialized training)
monitoring systems, contract
management, feasibility
studies, equipment)        * Historic preservation in Porto
* Preparation of historic        Novo
preservation activities in
Porto Novo                 *  Pilot solid waste management
*  Solid waste management        operation in Cotonou
study in  Cotonou             (privatization)
* Communications/information
carnpaigns and training for    0 Continue communications
CU management teams           campaigns (by elected
*  Urban regulatory reform       mayors)
preparation (studies, draft    *  Support for regulatory reform
reform amendments, land
privatization study,
preparation of land
privatization pilot operation)
__________________________   *  Secondary  cities  study
-4-



2. Urban Infrastructure       * First priority works in    * Second priority works in
Construction/ Rehabilitation     Cotonou and Porto Novo       Cotonou and Porto Novo;
(roads and primary drainage)    First priority works in
Parakou
3. Neighborhood Initiatives   * Selection of implementing  * Possible expansion to new
NGO                          low-income neighborhoods
* Establishment of
Neighborhood Development   * CISUs begin working in other
Committees                   neighborhoods
* Creation, staffing and training
of Community Initiatives
Support Units in each CU
* Development of project
preparation guide
* Technical
studies/environmental impact  * Continuation of priority
analyses of neighborhood     neighborhood projects
projects                  * Continuation of
* Implementation of priority    awareness-building/
neighborhood projects        information campaigns
* Awareness-building/informati * Continuation of microproject
on campaigns                 implementation
* Microproject identification/
development/ implementation
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is the same as the APL purpose. It aims to improve the quality of life
for urban residents, especially the poor, by providing, in a cost-effective manner, more services of better
quality to residents, especially those in low-income areas, of Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Key performance indicators include:
* Management tools in place and utilized:
Consolidated MOF/CU accounting and budgeting systems with detailed annexes for investments
and maintenance;
Quarterly management reports;
Computerized expenditure monitoring system in CUs;
Financial management procedures manual developed and in use in CUs and line ministries;
Technical procedures manual developed and in use in CUs;
Local Finance Monitoring Unit operational in MOF.
* Trained technical and financial professionals in key posts
* Timely budget preparation, implementation, monitoring.
* Timely planning and programming of investment and maintenance works.
* Resource mobilization (municipal taxes, MOF-managed taxes).
* Urban service delivery by force account to individuals cut by 50% by project end; urban service
-5-



delivery entirely contracted out by APL end.
*   AM elected/appointed decision-makers trained (mayors/city councils of 3 CUs)
*   Clear and well-targeted urban budget allocations and disbursements (detailed in Annex 1)
* 50% of urban households aware of initiatives/activities by project end; 65% aware by APL end
*   Rehabilitated works completed on time, within budget and within quality standards (13.8 kms of
rehabilitated roads: Cotonou/10, Porto Novo/ 3.8; 10.2 kms of drains constructed/ rehabilitated:
Cotonou/7.2, Porto Novo/3 .0 by project end; 34.1 kms of road and 27.8 kms of drains rehabilitated) in
Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou by APL end.
*   75% routine maintenance program implemented by project end; 100% implemented by program end.
*   200,000 urban residents protected from flooding by program end (140,000 in Cotonou, 20,000 in Porto
Novo and 40,000 in Parakou).
*   80% of works carried out by local private contractors.
* 1.5 rnillion labor-days created for unskilled and semi-skilled labor on project works.
*   # of microprojects designed, operated and maintained by community
*   # of neighborhood projects reviewed and approved by CISUs (detailed in Annex 1).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: P-6308-BEN                             Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/11/94
The current CAS is out of date and a new CAS is being prepared. This section refers therefore to those
elements of the current CAS which are still valid.
The main objectives of the current CAS are to encourage private sector supply response and to ensure
adequate provision of basic social services. Secondary objectives are to: (a) reinforce sectoral
administrative/institutional capacity; (b) support the State in its new role as facilitator and promoter of an
appropriate environment for private activity; (c) draw attention to environmental impacts and natural
resource protection; and (d) promote women's participation in economic activities. The proposed project
supports both of the main objectives, and specifically addresses all secondary objectives but the latter.
Provision of basic urban services, particularly through partnerships with private enterprises and community
groups directly supports the main objectives, and addresses urban environmental concerns. Sectoral
adrninistrative/institutional capacity will be reinforced by project activities to build and strengthen
administrative and financial capacity at both the State and local levels and improve coordination between
them. Project activities to contract out construction and rehabilitation of primary urban infrastructure and
provision of basic urban services, and to involve communities in determining and addressing neighborhood
level priorities support the State's role as facilitator of a favorable environment for private activity.
Finally, construction/upgrading or marketplaces and construction of access and feeder roads will improve
woimen's participation in economic activities, although this component is not specifically targeted to
woimen.
-6-



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Rapid but haphazard urban growth Rapid urban growth, averaging 5% per year over the past 20 years,
is the underlying factor for nearly all of the issues currently confronting Benin's cities. This growth, mainly
the result of rural migration, is most pronounced in Benin's coastal cities (Cotonou and Porto Novo in
particular), with important growth in secondary cities and regional centers such as Parakou and
Abomey-Calavi. The coastal cities' growth is fueled by the presence of the country's only port at Cotonou,
making them important trade transit sites. In the absence of adequate planning and absorptive capacity,
urban growth in Benin has been haphazard, leading to settlement of inappropriate and environmentally
vulnerable land and complicating the provision of appropriate infrastructure and services. An active, but
extralegal land market, has exacerbated inappropriate land use. In addition, Benin's coastal cities have
grown faster than cities in the interior, skewing urban development to the detriment of regional centers and
rural regions.
(b) Inadequate provision of basic urban infrastructure and services: Investment in urban infrastructure and
services has not kept pace with urbanization. This is in part due to the rapidity of urban growth and in part
to weak municipal management capacity, resource mobilization and utilization (see below). From
1974-1991, the Marxist regime made no investments at all in the urban sector, and subsequent
expenditures have never been able to fill the backlog for infrastructure construction and rehabilitation.
Infrastructure shortages are particularly acute in Benin's three largest cities: Cotonou and Parakou, which
are engines of national economic growth, and, Porto Novo, which is the capital. In particular, lack of paved
roads and drainage hampers urban productivity and access to social services and poses serious threats to
human and environmental health during the rainy season. The shortages are exacerbated by lack of
maintenance of existing infrastructure. The Government has embarked on a number of donor-funded
initiatives to increase the supply and quality of basic urban infrastructure, but has not paid adequate
attention to maintenance.
(c) Weak municipal management: Weaknesses in municipal management stem from weak capacity of
municipal and line ministry staff, from inappropriate internal organization of municipalities and central and
line ministries, and from a changing urban regulatory framework. Urban sector management is divided
among several ministries (Ministry of Interior, Security and Land Administration,Ministry of Environment,
Habitat and Urban Development, and Ministry of Finance) with little coordination among them and
between them and the municipalities. The Government is in the process of decentralizing and
deconcentrating, giving more power to the municipalities, however this process must be supported by local
capacity development and ongoing establishment of urban regulations. Moreover, at the local level,
municipal governments do not have adequate human and financial resources to provide urban services. The
Government has supported delegated contract management and contracting out to the private within the
framework of the Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project, and other donor projects, with notable
success, but this experience should be expanded, while municipal governments are strengthened in
planning, programming, budgeting and managing service contracts.
(d) Weak municipal resource mobilization and utilization Closely linked to (c) above, responsibility for
determining and collecting municipal revenues is divided among the Ministry of Finance (property and
business taxes) and the municipality (various fees) with little coordination, transparency and accountability.
In particular, the line MOF needs to reform the tax base to account for real potential.Weak CU staff
capacity results in low billing and collection rates of local taxes (40% to 55% of potential depending on the
CU). Municipalities are usually not fully informed of the potential and collected resources, making it
difficult for them to plan expenditures adequately (division of urban road tax proceeds is particularly
unclear and ill-targeted). In addition, budget and accounting records obscure revenues and expenditures,
-7-



making it difficult for municipalities to have a clear picture of the amount and allocation of their resources.
This is a contributing factor to the shortage of basic urban infrastructure and services.
(e) Disengagement of urban populations and isolation of low-income communities: In general, urban
populations are disengaged from decisions on urban investments and responsibility for maintenance.
Although the Government's decentralization and democratization initiatives should address this over the
long term, at present municipal management is mainly centrally appointed and neither consults residents for
urban management decision-making nor fully informs them of urban initiatives underway. There are no
effective structures for residents to communicate needs and priorities to the local government. Low-income
communities, populated largely by rural immigrants, are both physically and spiritually isolated from the
functioning of the city. Most low-income neighborhoods, many on the urban periphery and off the main
urban road network, are severely underserved by social and physical infrastructure, a symptom of rapid
urban growth. The Government is investing in infrastructure in low-income areas, and constructing/paving
access roads, but it is not keeping pace with growth in these neighborhoods.
(f) Urban unemployment and poverty. A result of rapid urban growth, Benin's urban economies have not
been able to provide adequate formal employment opportunities for their populations. The result is a large
and active informal economy based on petty trade, handicrafts and services - in many cases subsistence
employment. Under the Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project and other donor-financed urban
initiative, the Government has begun contracting out works and services to the private sector and
encouraging use of labor-intensive techniques to stimulate development of small and medium enterprises
and creation of employment.
(g) Inadequate land manazement: Urban land management poses particular problems to urban development
in Benin. Land titling procedures are extremely cumbersome and complicated, which has resulted in an
active system in which owvnership is connoted by "occupancy permits" for land plots rather than formal
titles. Occupancy permits are recognized as collateral for loans, and are bought and sold, but they are not
legal land titles. These permits are issued by Prefects on behalf of the central government, mainly as
ex-post regularization of spontaneous settlements. Since the State formally "owns" the land, it can
dispossess occupants at any time. The State, as landowner, is supposed to manage the land (hence a lack
of zoning regulations), however it rarely performs this function. In this respect, municipalities have little
control over the lands within their physical jurisdictions and cannot stop spontaneous settlements, protect
environmentally vulnerable land, enforce zoning and construction codes, and obtain easements and rights of
way for construction, except through the central government (MISAT). There is some illegal land
occupation (squatting) in some of the new, peri-urban low-income neighborhoods, where settlement has
outpaced division of land into legal plots.
-8-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project addresses inadequate provision of basic urban services and infrastructure, weak management
municipal management capacity, weak municipal resource mobilization and utilization, lack of
transparency in local resource management, lack of accountability by local and central
decision-makers/manager, isolation of low-income communities and disengagement of urban populations,
incoherent urban regulatory framework and urban unemployment and poverty. Given the scale of problems
in Benin's three main cities and their relative economic weight (providing 45% of national GDP), the
project will focus on interventions in Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou and on improving central
administration of urban development. The team considered expanding the APL to include components to
address skewed urban growth on a national scale and land privatization, but decided that these should be
addressed as separate projects since other donors are involved in secondary cities, and land privatization
should be tested before launching a full-scale operation. Accordingly, the project will finance studies to
support preparation of a SIL for secondary cities and a LIL for urban land privatization. Altogether, the
APL, the SIL and the LIL make up the Bank's Urban Sector Program in Benin.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Please refer to paragraph 1 above for the program description.
The second phase will be triggered by the following key indicators at the end of the project implementation
period:
1. The collection rate for billed urban taxes (property and professional taxes) reaches 75% for Cotonou,
40% for Porto Novo and 65% for Parakou (responsibility: local General Tax Departments of the Ministry
of Finance - GTD/MF);
2. More than 80% of recoverable tax arrears for the period 1995-2000 has been collected by GTD/MF on
behalf of the 3 CUs.
3. The percent of the CUs' recurrent costs budget allocated and spent on urban services (i.e. all recurrent
costs except administrative operating expenses) reach 85% for Cotonou, and 75-80% for Porto Novo and
Parakou.
4. Allocations and expenditures on routine maintenance of roads and drainage systems account for 25-30%
of total recurrent cost expenditures in the budgets of the 3 CUs; of these expenditures 85% are for routine
maintenance implemented by private contractors.
5. Number of neighborhood projects reviewed and approved by the CISUs reaches 2 in Cotonou, 1 in
Parakou and I in Porto Novo.
Project performance indicators will be followed for each year of project implementation to ensure steady
progress towards these triggers. Since certain indicators are city specific, those cities that have reached
trigger targets will move into the second phase (assuming general targets have been reached), while those
that have not yet reached these targets will move into the second phase only once they have been attained.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises three main components: (a) municipal management strengthening; (b) urban
infrastructure rehabilitation; and (c) community participation and integration.
-9-



The objective of Component 1 is to improve the level and quality of local public services (particularly
sanitation and infrastructure maintenance) provided by CU governments in Cotonou, Porto Novo and
Parakou. The following subcomponents are designed to achieve this objective: (i) strengthening of CU
management capacity; (ii) strengthening of line ministry capacity to support urban authorities; (iii)
improvement of transparency through establishment of local information/communication system; and (iv)
support to reform the urban management regulatory framework.
The objectives of Component 2 are to improve transport and access to basic services for urban residents of
Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou, particularly those in low-income areas and to improve the urban
environment and significantly and sustainably reduce the effects of periodic flooding on public health and
on private and public infrastructure in areas which currently have no access to primary drainage. To
achieve these objectives, Component 2 comprises the following activities under the project: (i) rehabilitation
(paving and drainage) of the urban road network (10 kms in Cotonou, and 3.8 kms in Porto Novo); (ii)
construction of primary drainage in unserved neighborhoods in Cotonou (7.2 krrs) and Porto Novo (3
kms); (iii) technical studies and supervision to ensure implementation of these works; (iv) support to public
works SMEs to improve their management capacity; and (v)periodic technical audits of works and
contract management procedures, and financial audits of works.
Component 3 builds on the experience of a pilot operation in the Urban Rehabilitation and Management
Project which successfully mobilized a low-income community, with the support of an NGO, to plan,
implement and contribute to financing neighborhood improvement projects and community-based activities.
The main objective of Component 3 is to define approaches and interventions to facilitate sustainable
improvement in the environment and living conditions for low-income neighborhoods in Benin's three main
cities. Five participating neighborhoods were selected during project preparation according to need and
level of community organization (2 in Cotonou, 2 in Porto Novo and 1 in Parakou). The Component
consists of the following activities: (i) basic infrastructure and equipment according to community
priorities; (ii) conmmunity-based activities; (iii) support to community initiatives, including establishment of
a community initiative support unit (CISU) within the CU government.
Indicativ             Bain:      %o
Component                   Sector        C osts    %        financing   Bank-
1. Municipal Management                                3.40       12.0      3.40       13.3
Strengthening
2. Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation                21.80       77.0      19.20      75.3
3. Community Participation and                         2.40        8.5      2.20        8.6
Integration
4. Refunding of Project Preparation                    0.70        2.5      0.70        2.7
Advance
Total Project Costs                   28.30      100.0     25.50      100.0
Total Financing Required                    28.30      100.0     25.50     100.0
-10-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the Government's decentralization initiative currently underway by strengthening the
capacities of CU governments and line ministries to better mobilize and utilize resources to provide basic
urban services. The project will support restructuring of the Ministry of Environment, Habitat and Urban
Development (MEHU) and redefine central government's role in relation to decentralized and
deconcentrated government. The project will encourage contracting out of service provision to private small
and medium enterprises (SMEs) in support of the Government's privatization initiative. This will serve to
disengage local governments from direct service provision and enable them to focus on planning and
managing local services. To increase transparency and accountability in support of local government's new
role, the project will put in place a Local Finance Monitoring Unit (LFMU) in the Ministry of Finance to
clarify and track local resources and establish a clear accounting system at the local level. The MOF is
also being asked to reallocate revenues from the urban road tax to the three main cities in which 80% of
urban roads are located and to commit itself to achieving agreed-upon collection rate targets for
MOF-administered local taxes. The project also strengthens linkages between urban populations and local
governments, another basis for decentralization and democratization. City managers and elected
decision-makers will publicly report on their management performance.The project supports and is
coordinated with the Govermnent's poverty alleviation initiatives.
3. Benefits and target population:
Urban residents, especially the poc: Improved living conditions, mobility and access to services from
provision and maintenance of urban roads, drainage and sanitation systems, and solid waste management.
Contracting out works to SMEs and use of labor-intensive techniques will increase employment
opportunities for unskilled and semi-skilled workers. Development of the CISU within local government
will improve integration of urban residents, especially the poor, into the definition of urban priority
investments and their delivery. Although not specifically targeted, the project will likely benefit urban
women and children by improving both the access to and the quality of marketplaces, schools and health
centers.
CUs: Improved capacity for resource mobilization, increased local finance transparency, more
coordination with line ministries, more locally devolved responsabilities, improved understanding of local
priorities and closer linkages with urban residents will enable municipal decision makers to make better
informed and better targeted decisions on use of resources. Contracting out to the private sector and
involvement of communities in provision and maintenace of urban infrastructure and services will alleviate
the burden on muncipal government and allow it to focus on planning, programming and managing.
Industrv: Urban manufacturing, construction, transit trade and service industries will benefit from
increased demand and improved urban productivity generated by better access to labor, markets, and urban
services.
Rural populations: Improved access to urban markets and social services for rural populations near
Parakou and Porto Novo will stimulate regional agricultural and human development, increase employment
opportunities and quality of life and help stem rural migration to the coastal cities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
APL implementation period:   FY 2000-2005 (6 years)
First phase (proposed project:) FY 2000-2002 (3 years)
Second phase:               FY 2003-2005 (3 years)
-11-



hmplementing Agencies: SERHAU-SEM and AGETUR on behalf of Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou.
Program/Project Oversight and Coordination: iterministerial Steering Committee and Local Steering
Committees.
Project Oversight and Coordination: The project will be supervised and coordinated by the
Interministerial Steering Committee, headed by the Minister of Environment, Habitat and Urban
Development, and comprised of: (a) the Ministers (or their representatives) of. (i) Interior (MISAT); (ii)
Planning, Economic Restructuring and Employment (MOP); (iii) Finance (MOF); (iv) Public Works and
Transport; (v) Public Administration, Labor and Administrative Reform; (vi) Industry and Small and
Medium Enterprises; (vii) Public Health; Energy, Mines and Water; (viii) Culture and Communications;
(b) representative of the Technical Secretariat of the National Steering Commission for the Structural
Adjustment Program; (c) General Director of the Beninese Environmental Agency (ABE); (d)heads of the
3 CUs; (e) representative of the Beninese Urban Management Association; (f) representative of the
National Association for Construction Companies; and (g) a representative of civil society. The ISC is
served by a Secretariat, with the assistance of SERHAU. Local Steering Committees (LSCs), presided over
by the CU head and comprising line representatives of MISAT, MEHU and MOF, and representatives of
local associations and Neighborhood Development Committees (NDCs) will be established in Cotonou,
Porto Novo and Parakou. The LSCs will oversee day-to-day project implementation at the local level.
The ISC will convene quarterly to review the progress of the project, ensure complementary and efficient
coordination of the activities of the different project components, and will consolidate budgets, as well as
the quarterly and annual progress reports prepared and supplied by SERHAU in its role assisting the
Secretariat. The ISC will organize at least one annual meeting with IDA, involved bilateral donors and
cofinancing institutions, concerned line ministries, heads of the participating CUs, NGOs, involved
communities (represented by the NDCs) to: (i) review the proposed annual work program; (ii) review
implementation status and progress towards achievement of the project's objectives and second-phase
triggers; (iii) decide on necessary corrective actions for project implementation; and (iv) coordinate with
other related projects and the various interventions of other donors.
Implementation Framework: The project will be oriented by the urban authorities (heads of the CUs) as
the principal beneficiaries of capacity building activities and as managers of works to be completed under
the project. Agreements will be signed between the State (MISAT, MEHU and MOF) and the CUs
specifying the roles and responsibilities of the CUs, line ministries and central government and the policy
reforms to be undertaken by each party. IDA funding for project components will be made available to
SERHAU-SEM and AGETUR by the borrower (Government of Benin) with conditions of delegation
specified in a project agreement, to be signed before project effectiveness. In addition, conventions will be
signed between SERHAU-SEM/AGETUR and the 3 CUs to specify the annual program of activities,
implementation procedures, terms of reference, estimation of costs, procurement methods and the
responsibilities and roles of each of the parties (project progress information, supervision and quality
assurance), as well as the fees to be paid to the implementing agencies for their management services.
APL and Project Financing: IDA will provide about 80% of APL and project financing. During the first
phase, the Government of Benin will provide 10% of project financing for investments in Porto Novo and
Parakou, and only 5% of that required for Cotonou. The remaining 5% of the Counterpart will be provided
by the CU of Cotonou. During the second phase, the CUs of Cotonou and Porto Novo will provide 10% of
their project financing. Parakou will contribute 5% of its project financing during the second phase, to be
matched by a 5% contribution from the Government. For Component 3, Counterpart financing of works
and goods selected by communities will be provided by the communities and CUs in varying degrees
-12-



ranging between 5 and 15% of subproject costs. IDA financing will be contingent upon provision of
Counterpart funds and execution of annual routine maintenance program (according to indicated targets) by
each CU.
Project and Special Accounts and Audit Arrangements: As noted above, IDA funds will be made available
by the Borrower to AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM on the basis of a Project Agreement. Special Accounts
will be opened in the name of each implementing agency to house IDA credit funds and to facilitate rapid
payment to private finms providing goods and services to the project. Likewise, Project Accounts will be
opened in the name of each agency for deposit of Government and CU Counterpart funds.
The financial management and accounting systems of the implementing agencies were analyzed during
project preparation for application of the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) and found
satisfactory (see Annex 11). The financial service of the implementing agencies will gradually apply
LACI: th.ey will maintain financial records in compliance with accepted accounting principles and will
prepart some financial statements based on the LACI format during the first year of project
implementation. The implementing agencies will make the necessary arrangements to conduct the annual
audit of the project. The Borrower will cause the implementing agencies to engage independent, external
auditors, satisfactory to IDA to conduct such audits.
Parallel FinancinQ The Agence Fran,aise de D&veloppement (AFD) will finance road and drainage works
in Cotonou and Porto Novo in both phases. Their contribution is estimated at approximately US$ 3.6
million. The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) has expressed interest in supporting the Government's
decentralization initiative by funding training and technical assistance for the main cities. NDF's
participation will be factored into APL interventions once it is clearly defined. At that time, IDA resources
would be redeployed to other program priorities. Based on the results of a solid waste study carried out
during the first phase of the APL, the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has proposed
parallel financing for a solid waste component comprising development of a public dump in Cotonou and
solid waste management capacity in Cotonou and Porto Novo.
Component Implementation: Project components will be implemented by the CUs through
SERHAU-SEM (for studies, technical assistance, advice, training and equipment purchase) and AGETUR
(for major infrastructure works and accompanying technical studies and works supervision) in accordance
with the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
SERHAU-SEM and AGETUR will develop annual activities programs in close consultation with and
subject to the final approval of the beneficiaries (CU govenmments, Planning and Programming
Departments (PPDs) of the ministries involved,the ISC for SERHAU-SEM and CUs for AGETUR). The
anmual programs specify activities, target costs, financing (IDA credit and Counterpart funding), terms of
reference, agency fees, procurement plan, draft implementation timetable and respective roles and
responsibilities of the parties. These annual programs will be subject to prior review by IDA and must be
approved by the project's Interministerial Steering Committee, and will form the basis of the amendments
to the conventions signed between SERHAU-SEM/AGETUR and the 3 municipalities.
Procurement Arrangements:  The procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). All consultant services financed by IDA
will be procured in accordance with the Banks Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
AGETUR will procure all contracts for works and goods under Component 2. SERHAU-SEM will be
-13-



responsible for procurement of consultant services and goods under Components 1 and 3. As in the Urban
Rehabilitation and Management Project, both implementing agencies will be hired by the Government of
Benin (on a sole source basis) to assist CUs and line ministries in implementing the proposed project. As
such, these autonomous implementing agencies will operate under delegated management contracts to be
signed between the CUs and AGETUR for physical activities (works) and between the Government,
represented by MISAT and MEHU, and SERHAU-SEM for the remaining activities of the project. These
contracts will stipulate the payment of management fees for the implementing agencies, not exceed 4.5%
and 12% of the cost of activities managed respectively by AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM. Management
fees will be paid as the corresponding activities are implemented. Procurement methods, arrangements and
review thresholds are detailed in Annex 6.
Monitoring and Evaluation: SERHAU-SEM will transmit to the ISC, CUs and IDA a quarterly activity
report covering implementation progress of the annual program of activities approved by ISC, Component
I and 3 activities, linancial status of the agency and of each convention, agency management and
component performance indicators. AGETUR will do the same for Component 2, including an annual
technical audit of works. As noted above, AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM's financial management and
accounting systems will be audited annually by independent external auditors. Audit results will be
transmitted to IDA no later than 6 months after the end of the audited year.
Annual Reviews: The Borrower and IDA will conduct annual project reviews, commencing not later than
December 31, 2000, and involving appropriate representatives of the CUs and CISUs. At least one month
before the review, the Borrower, through AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM will submit for IDA review and
comment an annual project implementation progress report, including identification of problem areas and
remedial measures to be taken, and plans for neighborhood development activities to be undertaken during
the following year. The annual reviews will consider these reports and will develop an action plan for the
following year to comprise activities and remedial measures to be undertaken to ensure steady progress
towards achieving project and trigger indicators.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Tlhe project was originally conceived as a follow-on project to the First Urban Project in Benin. However,
an Adaptable Program Lending approach was selected to provide adequate time and incentives for
incremental improvements in the technical and financial capacity of local government institutions (CUs and
line ministries). This is intended to help them provide urban services at an appropriate pace and to prepare
them for increased autonomy in the context of the forthcoming decentralization.
One alternative for addressing urban issues in Benin (particularly in the context of the currently proposed
decentralization effort) would be to include all primary, secondary and tertiary cities in the project. Given
the scope of urban problems in Benin, this approach would serve to scatter and dilute the impact of the
project; other donors have project in these cities. Instead, the project will focus on cities in which the
problems are particularly acute and those that have"critical mass" in terms of resources and institutions
(primary cities and secondary cities with the status of"circonscription urbaine," or those that have a
sufficient level of management autonomy and economic potential). The project will therefore concentrate
on Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou as these cities would most benefit from improvements in
management and transparency and would serve as development models for other Beninese cities. The
project will fund a study on secondary cities for preparation of a potential Sector Investrnent Loan to
-14-



address the needs of secondary cities. As noted above, land privatization will be addressed through a
Learning and Innovation Loan.
A third alternative would be to focus on strengthening urban institutions to take on the added
responsibilities implied in decentralization. Given that Benii s cities all need primary infrastructure, and
will have to manage this infrastructure under the new system, the new project will build an integrated
system by gradually providing infrastructure while strengthening urban institutional management and
financial capacity.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (00)
Weak municipal management capacity Urban Rehabiliation and           S             S
and degraded urban infrastructure  Management Project
Inadequate local resources
Urban poverty and unemployment
Disengagement of urban residents  Lome Urban Development             S             S
Project
Involvement of private sector in service
delivery
Other development agencies
Need to ensure maintenance of      European Development Fund
investments
Inadequate urban services management AFD, DANIDA and KfW
IP/DG Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project draws particularly on lessons learned in the recently completed Urban
Rehabilitation and Management Project in Benin.
(a) Delegating contract management for and involving the private sector in urban service provision is an
effective approach which alleviates the burden on municipalities and ensures better resource utilization;
(b) Infrastructure maintenance financing must be ensured by (i) improved mobilization of local resources
and (ii) adequate allocation of resources within the local budget;
(c) Establishment of competent technical and financial management units at the local level is a pre-requisite
to sustainable and efficient urban service provision;
(d) Compliance with clearly defined roles and responsibilities for different levels of government is essential
to enable each to focus on its appropriate contribution to local, regional and national development: in
particular, local autonomy should be respected, and local revenues should be collected and resources made
available in a timely manner;
(e) There is a need to balance growth (i.e. spread investments) across the country to avoid overwhelming
the primary cities and to stimulate regional development;
(f) Basic urban service provision at the neighborhood level should involve the communities (defini.tion of
priorities, implementation and maintenance) and be adapted to local capacity and resources;
-15-



(g) Until local resource mobilization is sufficient to sustain service provision and maintenance, public
investments planned at the local level should be incorporated into the Public Investment Program (PIP) and
financed by central government;
(h) Donor interventions in the urban sector in Benin should be coordinated better.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government sees this project as essential to support the decentralization effort currently underway. To
this end, the GOB has: (a) established a Steering Committee to oversee project preparation and
subsequently to monitor project implementation; (b) established the Maison des Collectivites Locales to be
in charge of assisting future local governments build management capacity; (c) appointed SERHAU-SEM
to handle day-to-day project preparation activities; (d) appointed consultants to undertake feasibility studies
required for preparation of the proposed project; (e) submitted Decentralization Law for adoption by the
National Assembly; (f) prepared policy measures to facilitate implementation of the proposed operation,
some of which have already been adopted.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been the major funder of urban development programs in Benin. Building on the lessons
learned from the Rehabilitation and Management Project (Cr. 233 8-BJ) and sector work carried out in
1997, the Bank is the only donor able to address urban issues on a wide and comprehensive scale. The
Bank, as requested by the GOB, would act as a catalyst to and coordinator for donors (EU, FAC, KfW,
DANIDA) in supporting the decentralization process.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$7. 1 million; ERR = 12-104 %
o Cost Effectiveness Analysis
O Other
The NPV is calculated at a 12% discount rate. The Economic Rate of Return ranges from 12% to 104%
depending on the city and the level of investment considered. Please refer to Annex 4 for details.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
N/A
Fiscal Impact:
Recurrent costs will increase by US$450,000 by project end and US$700,000 by program end and each
year thereafter. Fiscal resources will increase by US$4.3 million by project end and by US$6.8 million by
program end due to improved billing and collection and more transparent distribution of existing tax
revenues.
3. Technical:
N/A
-16-



4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The Goverunent will delegate contract management to SERHAU-SEM, an
autonomous public/private enterprise and AGETUR, a private firm as specified in project agreements
between the State and the agencies and conventions between the participating CUs and the agencies. Both
agencies have a proven track record in delegated contract management in the implementation of the Bank's
Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project, as well as implementation of other donor-funded projects,
and have finance and accounting systems acceptable to IDA. Component 3 will involve establishment of
new and untested institutions at the neighborhood and CU levels (NDCs and CISUs respectively), which
will benefit from the guidance and assistance of an NGO selected competitively and having clearly defined,
appropriate expertise and experience. These institutions may have an operational learning period, therefore
the community component will be implemented gradually; procedures manuals will be developed during the
first year of project implementation to provide operational guidelines and clear project selection criteria.
Financial management systems of both agencies will be upgraded during the first year of implementation to
satisfy LACI requirements. Further, the environmental assessment and review capacity of the agencies will
be updated and strengthened during the project.
b. Project management: As described just above, the project will be managed by the Government (MEHU,
MISAT and MOF) and the CUs through contracts with the implementing agencies. The Interministerial
Steering Committee will provide project coordination and oversight at that national level; this function will
be performed at the local level by the Local Steering Committees.
5. Social:
Although no significant social risks are expected, special attention was given to identification and selection
of low-income neighborhoods in which the project will upgrade social and physical infrastructure. During
project implementation, neighborhood development activities and community-based activities must be
selected carefully to ensure community consensus on selected activities andso as not to overwhelm
community design, implementation and maintenance capacity. As noted above, the project will seek to
improve linkages between urban residents and local government. During project preparation, an NGO
conducted social assessments, proposed communities for inclusion in the project and identified possible
neighborhood development activities to be undertaken during the project. During the project, an NGO will
be charged with organizing the selected communities, assisting them to identify neighborhood development
activities and design and carry out community-based activities, and building awareness in the communities
on health and environmental issues. In addition, the NGO will work with the new community intiative
support units to begin building the CU's community outreach. Positive impacts relate to poverty alleviation
through better access to urban services and employment generation through labor-intensive rehabiliation
works.
6. Environmental assessment:            Environment Category I A E C
1B DFI
The main urban environmental concerns in Benin are drainage, sanitation and solid waste collection and
disposal. The project aims at improving the urban environment through investments in drainage, road
paving and regravelling, upgrading of community-based social and physical infrastructure and, if
warranted, solid waste precollection. These activities are expected to significantly improve health and
living conditions for residents of the participating cities, however care must be taken that these works are
carried out in an environmentally sound manner.
The environmental assessment procedures to be followed are specified in the Project Implementation
Manual. In general, AGETUR will screen all proposed works to determine the necessity of and scope for
-17-



environmental assessments to be included in the technical designs for the works. The screening and
subsequent environmental assessment will be reviewed jointly with the ABE. Technical designs will
incorporate the results of the environmental assessments in terms of identifying potential environmental
impacts and defining mitigating measures. Such measures will be incorporated into the bidding documents
to ensure that they are implemented and financed. Specifically, the following mitigation measures will be
included in the project to address issues raised in the environmental impact assessment: (i) information
campaigns to inform the public of works and mitigation measures; (ii) forbidding the use of sand from
vulnerable coastal zones for construction; (iii) no drainage works during the rainy seasons to minimize
disruption of service; (iv) alternating works to minimize dust, noise and traffic disruption; (v) no work
during lunch hours and between the hours of 10 p.m. and 6 a.m.; (vi) include existing natural drainage into
works design; (vii) managing transport to and from work sites to minimize debris and traffic congestion;
(viii) manage work sites to minimize neighborhood and traffic disruption; (ix) tree planting to increase
green space and deter erosion; and (x) ensure infrastructure maintenance Jointly with the ABE, AGETUR
will conduct annual post-reviews of the environmental assessments and works completed to determine that
environmental impacts have been correctly identified and addressed.
In addition, the project includes a solid waste study in Cotonou to analyze the amount and content of solid
waste generated and current systems for collection, treatment and disposal. Based on the results of the
study, a solid waste component may be developed for the second phase or for financing by another donor
(CIDA has expressed interest in funding such a component).
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Urban residents, particularly the poor, in Cotonou, Parakou and Porto Novo: IS/CON/COL
Local governments (CUs and line ministries) of Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou: IS/CON/COL
NGOs: IS/CON/COL
SERHAU: IS/CON/COL
AGETUR: IS/CON/COL
Private sector (construction/urban services): IS/CON
The primary beneficiaries are urban residents, particularly those in low-income neighborhoods, and the
local governments of Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou, and the private sector. During project
preparation, an NGO has conducted social assessements and organized community consultations on needed
neighborhood development activities and community-based activities. Local government (both CU and line
ministry) have been involved in project design, particularly selection of priority infrastructure and reform of
financial and administrative responsibilities. AGETUR and SERHAU, the implementing agencies, have
been charged with project preparation. The private sector will be involved in provision of urban services
through contracting out during project implementation.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Central government ministries and agencies (MOF, MISAT, MEHU, Maison des Collectivites Locales,
Mission de Decentralisation): IS/CON/COL
Other donors (AFD, DANIDA, KfW, NDF, CIDA, USAID): IS/CON
Discussions are being encouraged among and within the ministries on needed reforms and project
coordination. The Ministries will be represented on the project Steering Committee to ensure coordination
-18-



during project implementation. Likewise, discussions are underway with other donor agencies involved in
Benin's urban sector to ensure coordination of donor activities in the country.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability stems from: (a) securing funding for operation and maintenance through improved
mobilization and utilization of local resources;(b) broad participation of stakeholders, each contributing
according to scope of projected benefits from the project;(c) clear definition of responsibilities, in which
local governments will focus on planning and management while the private sector will execute and provide
urban services; (d) improved local government management capacity; and (e) transparency and
accountability of city managers to urban residents (quarterly public reporting and information campaigns).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of MOF commitment to project         S        MOF agreement on project reforms is
reforms                                            appraisal condition; project components
to support reform implementation
CU and line ministry staff unwilling to  M         Project components targeted to
accept change and utilize new                      developing/establishing new procedures;
procedures                                         lack of progress would block 2nd phase
Turnover of trained staff                N         Key staff commnit to remain for life of
project/staff mgmt. devolved to CUs.
CUs unwilling to contract out, lay off   M         Project components based on
force account staff                                contracting out; annual investment
funding depends on performance
Lack of private sector capacity to       N         Private sector capacity developed
deliver services (other than works)                during URMP; project components to
strengthen private sector capacity/works
tailored to current capacity
Decision-makers not "trainable"          N         Decision-makers or appropriate
alternates with appropriate background/
experience chosen for training
Media campaigns not well-targeted/ CU    M         Project component; lack of progress
unwilling to publicize results                     blocks 2nd-phase release
Maintenance resources reallocated to     N         Annual investment funding depends on
overheads or nonpriority investment;               effective maintenance of existing
routine maintenance not programmed or              infrastructure
only partially implemented
Wage stickiness/oversupply of labor      M
Lack of willingness/capacity of          M         NGO and CISU to mobilize and provide
community                                          technical assistance to community
From Components to Outputs
-19-



Central government intervention in local  S       Agreements between State and CU
govenunent decisions/actions                      signed before project effectiveness/
annual review and reporting to MOF/
review at midterm and project end for
continuation into 2nd phase
F-uture elected mayors not committed to  S        Training for newly elected mayors
project objectives and approach                   within project; any CU which is not
committed will be dropped from project
and another city included instead.
Central tax administration not efficient,  S      Agreements between State and CU
transparent, accountable and willing to            signed before project effectiveness/
work with local governments                       reviewed at midterm and project end for
continuation into 2nd phase
Inadequate maintenance of financial      M        Implementing agencies, with proven
documentation                                     track record, to provide technical
assistance. Frequent review for
quarterly reports
Decision-makers do not have political    S        Project components to improve
willingness to make objective decisions           transparency and quality of
decision-making
City counterpart funding not or          S        Parakou not participating until 2nd
partially provided (or provided at                phase/annual project investment funding
expense of routine maintenance)                   dependant on provision of counterpart
funds.
City priorities not well- formulated     S        Project components to improve
transparency, accountability and quality
of municipal decisions
Lack of donor coordination/agreement     M         Information-sharing, agreement and
on funding priorities                             continuous coordination before and
after project effectiveness
Inadequate private sector capacity       M         Private sector capacity demonstrated
(services and works)                               during Urban Rehab. and Maintenance
Project; project components to
strengthen private sector capacity/
works tailored to current capacity
Private sector service delivery is less  M         Competitive procurement
cost-effective than force account
Communities do not have the time nor     M        Communities have indicated interest
interest to participate                            during project preparation and have
track record of participation.
Microprojects tailored to capacity
Lack of CU commitment to responding      N        CISU establishment during first year of
to community priorities                            project; ability to respond to
communities is 2nd-phase trigger
CISU not integrated within the CU and    S        To be reviewed at midterm and
unable to work effectively with other             adjustments made if necessary
departnents
Overall Risk Rating                      M
-20-



Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Local elections are expected at any time during the APL implementation period, once the decentralization
process becomes effective. Newly elected mayors may not agree with the project approach or may not
uphold the commitments of their predecessors. The project team and counterpart management will monitor
the situation and provide training and orientations to newly elected mayors. It is expected that if the project
is working well, there will be considerable local pressure to continue. However, if an elected mayor decides
not to participate, the city will be dropped from the program and another will be selected for inclusion.
The selection of low-income neighborhoods to be included in the project may generate some controversy
from other neighborhoods that would also like to participate. However, the selected neighborhoods are
known to be genuinely in need. The CISUs will begin outreach to other neighborhoods which may be
included during the second phase, with joint-financing from the CUs.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Project implementation manual, acceptable to IDA in form and substance at all times, adopted by the
Counterpart.
ISC and IDA approval of the detailed first year work program to be carried out by SERHAU-SEM and
AGETUR, as well as their annual business plans.
Key personnel (financial and technical directors) with qualifications acceptable to IDA in place in the 3
CUs.
Signature of the Subsidiary Agreements between the Borrower and each of the Implementing Agencies, and
the Delegated Contract Management Agreements between the Borrower and SERHAU and between the
CUs and AGETUR.
Appointment of Independent Auditors, acceptable to IDA, to audit the Special Accounts and the Project
Accounts each year, as well as technical audit of civil works contracts managed by AGETUR.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Monitoring:
SERHAU-SEM and AGETUR adoption of necessary measures to ensure analytic accounting of each
activity (subproject) and contract.
Quarterly report submitted by AGETUR within one month of the end of each quarter.
Quarterly report submitted by SERHAU-SEM within one month of the end of each quarter.
Technical audit of annual works program submitted no later than three months after the end of the
BGrrower's fiscal year.
CU definition of annual routine maintenance programs, with adequate budget (see Financial Covenants).
-21-



Quarterly activity report submitted by CU technical departments within one month of the end of each
quarter.
Annual review of project implementation will be carried out by Borrower and IDA to assess
implementation progress and update implementation programming.
Financial:
The Borrower will cause AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM to open an account (AGETUR Project Account
and SERHAU Project Account respectively) in a Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA, and will make
initial deposits of CFAF 80,000,000 and CFAF 15,000,000 on or before January 31, 2000 into the
AGETUR Project Account and SERHAU Project Accountrespectivelyto finance the contributions of the
Borrower to the Project.
The Borrower will ensure provision of AGETUR Project Account and SERHAU Project Account on a
quarterly basis.
Financial audits of the AGETUR and SERHAU Project Accounts, Special Accounts of each agency as
well as AGETUR and SERHAU own accounts will be submitted no later than 6 months after the end of the
Borrower's fiscal year.
Financial audit of Project Account, and those of SERHAU-SEM and AGETUR submitted no later than 6
months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
Sufficient budgetary allocation for routine maintenance programs by CUs .
Annual CU budgets (including annexes for investments and maintenance) submitted for IDA review.
Mobilization by the CU and beneficiary communities of a minimum contribution (in cash or in kind) of
20% of the cost of neighborhood infrastructure works, prior to works implementation.
Mobilization by the CU and beneficiary communities of a minimum contribution (in cash or in kind) of
80% of the estimated cost of microprojects, prior to microproject implementation.
In case the estimated budget for the annual works program is surpassed, the implementing agencies shall
alert the ICS and IDA and request their nonobjection before signing any contract amendment.
Institutional:
The Government of Benin will ensure that CUs are staffed with key personnel (secretaries general,
technical and financial managers) having appropriate skills acceptable to IDA.
The Director General of AGETUR shall be a person whose experience, qualification and terms of
employment are satisfactory to IDA.
Prior to implementation of neighborhood infrastructure works and/or community microprojects:
(a) rights of way and access have been gained in accordance with Bank Operational Directive 4.30
-22-



concerning involuntary resettlement; and
(b) an agreement specifying the management of this infrastructure has been signed between the CU and the
infrastructure managers.
Disbursement:
Component 3 disbursement is contingent on establishment and adequate staffing of the Community
Initiatives Support Units in the three CUs.
Component 3 disbursement is further contingent upon acquisition of all relevant rights of way.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[i 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
I 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Hedi Larbi                       Letitia A. Obeng                  Theodore 0. Ahlers
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-23-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BENIN: First Decentralized City Management Project
KeyPefonace
Ht  Monitoring & Evaluation    Cnitical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Ensure adequate provision of  Major infrastructure in place
basic services             in 3 CUs and maintained in
working condition
Support private sector supply  100% of urban services
response                   contracted out;
Adequate number of SMEs
responding to urban service
contracts
Improve urban productivity   Decrease in number of work
and quality of life for urban   days lost to flooding (around
residents, especially the poor  40 days/year in Cotonou)
200,000 urban residents
protected from flooding -
140,000 in Cotonou: 20,000 in
Porto Novo and 40,000 in
Parakou; decreased urban
transport prices; improved
accessibility to urban and
social services in poor
neighborhoods
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
Provide, in a cost-effective    Investment decisions  CU quarterly reports       Political willingness of CU
mailmer, more services of  transparent to population and                         No interference by Central
better quality to CU residents, reflect local priorities as  Annual review of PIP  government
especially the poor        expressed by local residents,
availability of funding and
maintenance capacity;
Local finance resources    CU annual budget
increasing 12% per year;    implementation report
Local finance reporting clear
and consistent;
Disengagement of public    AGETUR quarterly report
sector from service provision
(100% contracting out to
private sector)
# kms of road rehabilitated
(Cotonou/24.2, Porto Novo/8.4
I Parakou/l.5); # kms of
drains constructed
(Cotonou/18.2, Porto
Novo/6.6, Parakou 3.0)
Mechanism in place to      NGO and CU quarterly       Community willing and ablc
organize community         reports                    to participate
participation
-24-



Project Developmnent      Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
Provide, in a cost-effective    1. Sound municipal financing                    Realistic calculation of
manner, more services of    to ensure 100% financing of                         potential; billing staff
better quality to CU residents, urban services. Indicators:                     commitment
especially the poor       (a) Annual local tax billing in                       Commitment of collection
3 CUs increased to 60% of    General Tax Department  staff; compliance by urban
potential by 2001;        report;                    residents
(b) Billed tax collection rate
increased to: 75% for
Cotonou, 40% for Porto Novo,
65% for Parakou;
(c) More than 80% of      CU quarterly reports
recoverable tax arreas for the
period 1995-2000 collected by
the GTD/MF on behalf of the
3 CUs by project end;
(d) The share of CUs'     CU and SERHAU-SEM
recurrent cost budgets    quarterly reports
allocated and spent on urban
services (i.e. all recurrent
costs by administrative
operating expenses) reaches:
85% for Cotonou, and 75-80%
for Porto Novo and Parakou; CU and AGETUR quarterly
reports
(e) The share of CUs'                                Private sector less expensive
recurrent costs budgets                              than force account
allocated and spent on routine
maintenance on roads and
drainage account for 25-30%
of total recurrent cost
expenditures; of these
expenditure, 85% are for
routine maintenance
implemented by private
contractors.
2. Improvements in living
conditions and commuting in
the 3 CUs.
Indicators:
(a) 200,000 urban residents
protected from flooding -
140,000 in Cotonou; 20,000 in
Porto Novo and 40,000 in
Parakou;
-25-



(b) 10,000 households have
direct access to primazy and
secondary paved roads;
(c) commuting times (project
effect cannot be measured due
to # of other donor-fnanced
road projects)
3. Replicable process in place CU quarterly report   Urban residents motivated to
to develop low-income                                participate
neighborhoods using                                  CISU staff effective in
cormnunity participation/                            community outreach/
partnerships with CUs.                               channeling of requests
Indicator:                                           Political commitment by CU
(a) Neighborhood projects    NGO quarterly report
reviewed and approved by
CISUs: 2 in Cotonou, 1 in
Porto Novo and I in Parakou.
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. a. Effective management   Tools in place and utilized:   CU quarterly report  MOF commitment to project
tools at local (CUs and line   consolidated MOF/CU                             reforms
rninistries) and central levels. accounting and budgeting
systems with detailed annexes
for investments and       CU budget implementation
maintenance; quarterly    report
management reports;
Computerized expenditure
monitoring system in CUs;
Financial management                                 Willingness of CU and line
procedures manual developed                          ministry staff to accept change
and in use in CUs and line                           and utilize new procedures
ministries;
Techical procedures manual
developed and in use in CUs
Local Finance Monitoring
Unit operational in MOF.
-26-



L b. Improved techmical and   Trained techical and financial CU quarterly report  Appropriate staff trained and
fnancial management      professionals in key posts                          willing to stay in post
capacity in CU and line
ministry staff           Timely budget preparation,   Supervision reports
implementation, monitoring
Timely planning and
programming of investment  Local PIP implementation and
and maintenance works    planning report (annual)
Resource mobilization
(municipal taxes,
MOF-managed taxes)
1.c. Improved            Urban services 100%       CU quarterly report       Willingness of CU to contract
decision-making processes   contracted out by APL end.                       out, lay off force account staff
including greater transparency
and accountability        Well-targeted CU budget                            Private sector capacity to
allocations/expenditures (see                      deliver services
outcome indicators above)
All elected/appointed     Supervision reports      "Trainability" of
decision-makers trained                            decision-makers
(mayors and city councils)
Consolidated budgeting/
accounting (see above)
50% of urban households                            Well-targeted media
aware of initiatives/activities                    campaigns/ willingness of CU
by project end; 65% by APL                         to publicize results
end.
2.a. Improved and sustainable Rehabilitation works  CU and AGETUR quarterly   Maintenance resources not
urban transport network and  completed on time, within   reports; technical audits  reallocated to investment;
access                   budget and meet quality                             routine maintenance
standards (13.8 kms of                             programmed
rehabilitated roads:
(Cotonou/10, Porto Novo/ 3.8)
75% of programnied routine
maintenance implemented
-27-



2.b. Better urban sanitation   Works completed on time,    CU and AGETUR quarterly
within budget and neet     reports; techrical audits
quality standards (10.2 kms of
drains constructed/
rehabilitated (Cotonou/7.2,
Porto Novo/3.0)
# additional urban residents  Specific beneficiary surveys to No catastrophic rain storms
protected from flooding (see  be conducted
APL indicators above)
2.c. Greater private sector    80% of works carried out by   AGETUR quarterly reports   Private sector supply response
capacity/employment       local private contractors                             and capacity
generation in construction and
related industries        Evolution of business      Sample survey              Wage stickiness/oversupply of
turnover, investment capacity                        labor
and employment in 10 sample
firms as a result of project
works contracts.
1.5 million labor-days created AGETUR/CU reports
on project works
# of private enterprises and
unskilled workers involved in
routine maintenance financed SERHAU-SEM/CU reports
by CUs.
# of neighborhood private
firms and workers involved in
neighborhood projects and
community-based activities
3.a. Improved urban       Depending on neighborhood                             No unusual epidemics
environment in poor       projects/subprojects, reduction                       Community maintenance of
neighborhoods             in # of days of flooding;                             infrastructure/green spaces
increased # of maintained
green spaces; solid wastes
collected regularly.
-28-



3.b. More community       # of commnity-based        NGO quarterly report       Willingness/capacity of
participation/integration of   activities designed, operated                    community
urban residents in        and naintained by community
neighborhood/CU
development               # of community projects    SERHAU-SEM quarterly        CISU capacity
reviewed and approved by the report
CISUs (see outcome indicators
above)
Average community          SERHAU-SEM quarterly      Willingness/capacity of
counterpart contribution of   report                 community to contribute
15% over life of project.
Degree of satisfaction of  Beneficiary survey
neighborhood residents with
projects/process
50% of urban population   Beneficiary survey
aware of initiatives/activities
(see above)
-29-



Hier~~~~~~~~rehy ~~     ~i SfIJ~te  IiEg-Iicatori! M-nitoiing gi&  vauationt   Critkai  Assurnpfion0tssi
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Municipal Management  US$ 3.4 million              CU, AGETUR and
Capacity Building                                      SERHAU-SEM quarterly
reports
a. Strengthen CU                                                                  No intervention of central
management capacity                                                               govermnent in local
government decisions/ actions
b. Improve municipal support                           Supervision reports        Elected mayors committed to
capacity of line ministries and                                                   APL and approach
implementing agencies
c. Establishment of local                             MOF annual report           Central tax administration
information/communication                                                         will be efficient, transparent,
system                                                                            accountable and willing to
work with local governments
d. Support reform of the urban                                                    Adequate maintenance of
management regulatory                                                             documentation
framework
Decision-makers have
political willingness to make
objective decisions
2. Basic Infrastructure    US$21.8 million            CU budget planning and
monitoring report
a. Imprrove urban road                                                            City ceunterpart funding
network (paving/drainage)                                                         provided (not at expense of
routine maintenance)
b. Prirnary drainage in                                                           City priorities are well-
unserved urban areas                                                              formulated
c. Technical studies and works                                                    Donor coordination!
supervision                                                                       agreement on funding
priorties
d. SME strengthening                                                              Adequate private sector
capacity
e. Technical/financial audits                                                     Private sector service delivery
of works                                                                          is more cost-effective
3. Conmmunity Participation/ US$ 2.4 nillion
Integration
a. Basic neighborhood                                                             Communities have the time
infrastructure                                                                    and interest to participate
b. Community-based activities                                                     CU commitment to
responding to community
priorities
c. Support for comununity                                                         CISU is integrated within the
initiatives                                                                       CU and can work effectively
with other departments
-30-



Annex 2: Project Description
BENIN: First Decentralized City Management Project
The project represents the first three-year tranche of an Adaptable Program Loan. The APL consists of
three main components: (a) municipal management capacity building; (b) basic urban infrastructure; and
(c) neighborhood initiatives to be phased as follows:
Comiponent                       First phase (proposed project)   Second phase
1. Municipal Management          *  Organizational/institutional  * Ongoing strengthening of CU
Strengthening (CU governments and    analyses of CUs and line       departments and line ministries
line ministries)                    ministries                       (training, technical assistance,
*  Adjustment of CU departments    equipment)
and line ministries (staffing,
training, restructuring,      * Increase municipal finance
equipment, management tools)    mobilization and recovery rates
*  Municipal finance analysis and   * Improve expenditure allocations
reform (rationalize tax basis,  and accounting system
recovery system for locally and   * Privatization of urban services
centrally administered urban    (marketplaces, parking,
taxes, improve financial       infrastructure maintenance)
management system and budget * Support to build private sector
monitoring)                     capacity to provide urban services.
*  Privatization of urban services
(analysis, feasibility, action
plan, pilot project preparation/   * Continued technical department
implementation)                 support (technical audits, staff
*  Technical departnment support   restructuring, specialized training)
(organization and staffing,
procedures manuals, monitoring
systems, contract management,  * Historic preservation in Porto
feasibility studies, equipment)  Novo
*  Preparation of historic
preservation activities in Porto  * Pilot solid waste management
Novo                            operation in Cotonou
*  Solid waste management study in  (privatization)
Cotonou
*  Communications/infonration    * Continue conununications
campaigns and training for CU   campaigns (by elected mayors)
management teams              * Support for regulatory reform
*  Urban regulatory reform
preparation (studies, draft reform
amendments, land privatization
study, preparation of land
privatization pilot operation)
_  Secondary cities study
2. Urban Infrastructure Construction/ *  First priority works in Cotonou   * Second priority works in Cotonou
Rehabilitation                      and Porto Novo (roads and        and Porto Novo; First priority
pinmary drainage)               works in Parakou
-31-



3. Neighborhood Initiatives    * Selection of implementing NGO  * Possible expansion to new
* Establishment of Neighborhood    low-income neighborhoods
Implementing Comnittees
* Creation, staffing and training of * CISUs begin working in other
Community Initiatives Support    neighborhoods
Units in each CU
* Development of project
preparation guide
* Technical studies/environmental
impact analyses of neighborhood * Continuation of priority
projects                      neighborhood projects
* Implementation of priority   * Continuation of
neighborhood projects         awareness-building/ information
* Awareness-building/information   campaigns
campaigns                   * Continuation of microproject
* Microproject identification/   implementation
development/ implementation
Project Oversight and Coordination: The project will be supervised and coordinated by the
Interministerial Steering Committee, headed by the Minister of Environment, Habitat and Urban
Development, and comprised of:
(a) the Ministers (or their representatives) of-
Interior (MISAT);
v   Planning, Economic Restructuring and Employment (MOP),
   Finance (MOF);
*   Public Works and Transport;
o   Public Administration, Labor and Administrative Reform;
o   Industry and Small and Medium Enterprises;
*   Public Health;
*   Energy, Mines and Water (represented by the General Director of the Beninese Electric and Water
Company); and
*   Culture and Communications (represented by the General Director of the Post and Telecommunications
Office);
(b) the Technical Secretary of the National Steering Commission for the Structural Adjustment Program;
(c) General Director of the Beninese Environmental Agency (ABE);
(d) heads of the 3 CUs;
(e) representative of the Beninese Urban Management Association;
(f) representative of the National Association for Construction Companies; and
(g) a representative of civil society.
The ISC's Secretariat is comprised of the Technical Secretary of the National Steering Commission for the
Structural Adjustment Program, the Director of Urban Development (MEHU), General Director of Land
Administration (MISAT), Director of Programming for MEHU, Director of Programming for MISAT, and
the Director of Sanitation and Urban Roads(MEHU). SERHAU-SEM will be responsible for the
day-to-day operation of the Secretariat, including preparing all project reports for review by the ISC and
arranging quarterly and annual meetings.
The ISC will meet quarterly to review activity reports of the implementing agencies and local steering
-32-



committees, discuss and act on institutional recommendations arising from project implementation, oversee
application of conventions between the State and each CU, evaluate the results of the first phase and
determine whether to proceed to the second phase, periodically brief the Cabinet on the project's
implementation status and communicate its recommendations, as well as those of the Cabinet, to the
implementing agencies. The ISC will organize at least one annual meeting with IDA, involved bilateral
donors and cofinancing institutions, concerned line ministries, heads of the participating CUs, NGOs,
involved communities (represented by the NDCs) to: (i) review the proposed annual work program; (ii)
review implementation status and progress towards achievement of the project's objectives and
second-phase triggers; (iii) decide on necessary corrective actions for project implementation; and (iv)
coordinate with other related projects and the various interventions of other donors.
Local Steering Committees (LSCs), presided over by the CU head and comprising line representatives of
MISAT, MEHU and MOF, and representatives of local associations and Neighborhood Development
Committees (NDCs) will be established in Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou. The LSCs will oversee
day-to-day project implementation at the local level.
The ISC will convene quarterly to review the progress of the project, ensure complementary and efficient
coordination of the activities of the different project components, and will consolidate budgets, as well as
the quarterly and annual progress reports prepared and supplied by SERHAU in its role assisting the
Secretariat.
Implementation Framework: The project will be oriented by the urban authorities (heads of the CUs) as
the principal beneficiaries of capacity building activities and as managers of works to be completed under
the project. Agreements will be signed between the State (MISAT, MEHU and MOF) and the CUs
specifying the roles and responsibilities of the CUs, line ministries and central government and the policy
reforms to be undertaken by each party. IDA funding for project components will be made available to
SERHAU-SEM and AGETUR by the borrower (Government of Benin) with conditions of delegation
specified in project agreements, to be signed before project effectiveness. In addition, conventions will be
signed between SERHAU-SEM/AGETUR and the 3 CUs to specify the annual program of activities,
implementation procedures, terms of reference, estimation of costs, procurement methods and the
responsibilities and roles of each of the parties (project progress information, supervision and quality
assurance), as well as service fees to be paid to the implementing agencies.
Component Implementation: Project components will be implemented by the CUs through
SERHAU-SEM (for studies, technical assistance, advice, training and equipment purchase) and AGETUR
(for major infrastructure works and accompanying technical studies and works supervision). The project
implementation manual (PIM) will detail the implementation timetable and present terms of reference for
component activities. The PIM will be a working base for development of annual activities programs. This
manual will also include a procurement plan (slicing of activities into contracts, type of consultation
chosen, tentative dates for bid launching).
SERHAU-SEM and AGETUR will develop annual activities programs in close consultation with and
subject to the final approval of the beneficiaries (CU governments, Planning and Programming
Departments (PPDs) of the ministries involved, the ISC for SERHAU-SEM and CUs for AGETUR). The
annual programs specify activities, target costs, financing (IDA credit and counterpart funding), terms of
reference, agency fees, procurement plan, draft implementation timetable and respective roles and
responsibilities of the parties. These annual programs will be subject to prior review by IDA and must be
approved by the project's Interministerial Steering Committee, and will form the basis of the amendments
to the conventions signed between SERHAU-SEM/AGETUR and the 3 munipalities.
-33-



APL andProject Financing: IDA will provide 90% of APL and project financing. The remaining 10%
will be provided as follows: during the first year of the project, the Government of Benin will provide 10%
of the project financing. During the second and third years of the project, the Government of Benin will
provide 5% of project financing and the remaiing 5% will be provided by the CUs of Cotonou and Porto
Novo. During the second phase, the CUs of Cotonou and Porto Novo will provide 10% of their project
financing. Parakou will contribute 5% of its project financing during the second phase, to be matched by a
5% contribution from the Govermment. IDA financing will be contingent upon provision of counterpart
funds and execution of annual routine maintenance program (according to indicated targets) by each CU.
Project and Special Accounts and Audit Arrangements: As noted above, IDA funds will be made available
by the Borrower to AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM on the basis of a Project Agreement. Special Accounts
will be opened in the name of each implementing agency to house IDA credit funds and to facilitate rapid
payment to private firms providing goods and services to the project. Likewise, Project Accounts will be
opened in the name of each agency for deposit of Government and CU counterpart funds.
The financial management and accounting systems of the implementing agencies were analyzed during
project preparation for application of the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) and found
satisfactory (see Annex 11). The financial service of the implementing agencies will gradually apply
LACI: they will maintain financial records in compliance with accepted accounting principles and will
prepare some financial statements based on the LACI format during the first year of project
implementation. The implementing agencies will make the necessary arrangements to conduct the annual
audit of the project. The Borrower will engage independent, external auditors, satisfactory to IDA to
conduct such audits.
Parallel Financing The Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) will finance certain works in both
phases. The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) has expressed interest in supporting the Government's
decentralization initiative by funding training and technical assistance for the main cities. NDF's
participation will be factored into APL interventions once it is clearly defined. At that time, IDA resources
would be redeployed to other program priorities. Based on the results of a solid waste study during the first
phase of the APL, the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) may provide parallel financing
for a solid waste component during the second phase.
Monitoring and Evaluation: SERHAU-SEM will transmit to the ISC, CUs and IDA a quarterly activity
report covering implementation progress of Component I and 3 activities, financial status of the agency
and of each convention, agency management and component performance indicators. For Component 2, a
technical audit of works (conformity, quality, environment) and procedures used by AGETUR
(procurement, contract and convention management) will be conducted by a consultant acceptable to IDA.
Each CU will follow the audit of works in its jurisdiction. The audit report will be transmitted by the CUs
to AGETUR, SERHAU-SEM, ISC, MEHU, MISAT, MOF and to IDA. AGETUR will transmit to the
ISC, CU and IDA a quarterly activity report covering implementation progress of component activities,
financial status of the agency and each convention, agency management and component performance
indicators (Annex 1).
Annual reviews: The Borrower and IDA will conduct annual project reviews, commencing not later than
December 31, 2000, and involving appropriate representatives of the CUs and CISUs. At least one month
before the review, the Borrower, through AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM will submit for IDA review and
conment an annual project implementation progress report, including identification of problem areas and
remedial measures to be taken, and plans for neighborhood development activities to be undertaken during
the following year. The annual reviews will consider these reports and will develop an action plan for the
-34-



following year to comprise activities and remedial measures to be undertaken to ensure steady progress
towards achieving project and trigger indicators.Following each Annual Review, the Borrower will act
promptly and diligently to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy shortcomings identified in
project implementation and to implement measures agreed upon during the annual review.
Reportin. Monitoring and supervision of the project will be based on the following reports to which the
borrower committed itself to cause implementing agencies and CUs to prepare and submit on a regular
basis: (a) quarterly progress reports by AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM which will be converted into PMR
once LACI is applied; (b ) proposed annual project activities two months before the end of fiscal year for
IDA review and CUs adoption; (c) the CUs annual budget for IDA review prior to its adoption by the MOF
and the Municipal councils; (d) quarterly progress report by each CU presenting: budget execution,
resources mobilization and maintenance program implementation and financing; and (e) annual report by
SERHAU covering the state of execution of the contract regarding local tax administration and
performance achieved by the MF. This report should be submitted to the CUs and IDA two months after
the end of each fiscal year. As noted above, the implementating agencies' financial management and
accounting systems will be audited annually by independent external auditors. Audit results will be
transmitted to IDA no later than 6 months after the end of the audited year.
Supervision. The project will require intensive supervision as several institutions are involved, some of
which (CUs) have little experience of direct Bank-financed projects. Special attention should be given to
assisting the MOF and each CU in mastering the implementation arrangements of the project, setting up the
reporting system and required organization and management tools to facilitate monitoring of regular
assessment and measurement of the CUs performance and implemented reforms impact. The project will
be supervised every three months during the first year and every four months during the last two years.
Annual reviews will be carried out in accordance with the terms specified above. An end of project
appraisal will be performed in September 2002 to prepare for the decision meeting on the second phase of
the project. This appraisal will include a full technical, financial and institutional evaluation of project
activities, beneficiary assessment and determination of progress made towards achieving second-phase
triggers.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.4 million
Municipal Management Strengthening.
Objective: The objective of Component 1 is to improve the level and quality of local public services under
the responsibility of local government in Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou, particularly in the areas of
sanitation and maintenance of public infrastructure in the three cities. To achieve these objectives, analyses
done during project preparation and for the ICR of the Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project have
shown the necessity of: (i) more effective management of the CUs'fmancial and human resources; (ii) more
involvement of the private and nongovernmental sectors in local public service delivery and
contractualization of the relationships between public and private actors; (iii) increased transparency of
municipal management transparency for urban residents and greater local government accountability to its
constituents; (iv) increased central government capacity (MISAT, MEHU) to provide technical assistance
to local government and coordinate activities; and (v) adapting the fiscal and regulatory framework to
support these objectives and activities. The commitment of the State and local governments of Cotonou,
Porto Novo and Parakou to achieving these objectives is stated explicitly in a Letter of Sector Policy (urban
management policy) which has been signed by the MOF, the MISAT and MEHU.
Description: To respond to these objectives, Component 1 will comprise four main subcomiponents: (a)
-35-



strengthening the management capacity of the CUs of Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou; (b) strengthening
State (central and line ministry) capacity to support and assist CUs; (c) establishmelnt of a local
communication/information system; and (d) reform of the urban management regulatory framework.The
expected results of these subcomponents and their performance indicators are summarized in Annex 1.
(a) CU management capacitv
The APL will finance activities to strengthen management capacity in the 3 CUs, consisting of workshops,
working sessions, seminars, short-term technical assistance, advice and training. The CU will annually
identify a detailed activity program, with assistance from SERHAU-SEM, to be approved by the
Interministerial Steering Committee. Specific project activities may include the following:
(i) Internal CU organization and management: analysis of the CUs' internal organization and human
resources; proposal for functional reorganization of CU departments (definition of responsibilities,
functional organizational chart, operational directives for technical, administrative and financial
departments, job profiles and strategic action plan for ongoing training, reconversion and recycling of staff
during the second phase); computerized system for tracking expenditures to clarify city accounts with
respect to budget annexes (separate investments, maintenance and departmental operation) and
operation/management methods (force account, delegated contract management, direct contracting etc);
definition of a budget management procedures manual and staff training.
(ii) Resource mobilization: improvement of fiscal system management: study to identify short-term
measures (readjustment of evaluation and recovery methods) and propose, for the medium term, local
finance reform to simplify and rationalize management of urban business and property taxes; improvement
of local tax management and recovery including city revenues (evaluation of potential and of the
management system, identification of new resources, action plan and implementation assistance).
(iii) Privatization: identification of options for urban service privatization; feasibility study and preparation
of strategy and action plan for service privatization specific to each of the 3 cities; preparation of pilot
operations to privatize infrastructure and equipment(concessioning or leasing of social and economic
infrastructure; disengagement of CU from services provided to individuals); procurement support:
definition of sample bidding documents and contracts by type of service, training in procedures, bid
evaluation and procurement management.
(iv) Infrastructure management: support to CU technical departments for infrastructure maintenance
programming; definition of a programming manual and training of technical department staff, feasibility
studies for investments and neighborhood projects and, for the 3 year investment program, finalization of
an evaluation manual for projects and staff training; historic preservation in Porto Novo (studies,
identification of second phase activities).
(v) Solid waste management in Cotonou: study on the organization and financing of solid waste
management (collection, transport, disposal, treatment) in Cotonou to determine the precise amount and
composition of waste, current organization of the subsector (particularly sorting and recycling practices)
and public and private financing of the subsector (price of resold waste) and to establish a strategy and
action plan for the CU to improve the urban environment at an affordable cost; the recommended strategy
and action plan could be implemented during the second phase;
(vi) Computer and office equipment and vehicles for the 3 CUs (mainly the technical and finance
departmnents): buying, adapting, installing and training on management software; internal networking of
-36-



CU departments; and purchase of work vehicles.
(b) Strengening State capacity to supervise and assist CUs
The project will provide technical and financial support to the 3 ministries concerned (MISAT, MEHU,
MOF), and their local line offices to prepare them for their new role of supervising and assisting local
governments. Following are activities specific to each ministry:
(i) Ministry of Finance. Establishment and computerization of a pilot Local Finance Monitoring Unit for
the 3 CUs within the Ministry of Finance. Under the project, this unit may receive short-term technical
assistance to install local finance supervision tools; technical assistance/training in supervision and analysis
of CU expenditures in collaboration with the Treasury and the CUs; a feasibility study on networking the
CUs with the tax billing and collection administration and with the Treasury (second phase); periodic
technical assistance for annual CU expenditure reviews, emphasizing monitoring expenditures for basic
service and infrastructure maintenance, and infrastructure investments; computerization of line ministry tax
departments (for CU resources); computer equipment and vehicles to improve billing and collection rates.
(ii) Ministry of Environment, Habitat and Urban Development. The objective is to strengthen the capacity
of MEHU, through organization and restructuring of central and line urban development departments
(UDDs) to provide the necessary technical support to local governments, particularly in the areas of urban
growth control, supervision of quality and urban service management and environmental protection. This
assistance may include an institutional and organizational study/audit to redefine the roles of the main
central and line departments and resulting reorganization (urban development and urban roads departments
in particular); strengthening the planning and programming department (PPD) to track the project, in
particular supervision of urban service management by the 3 CUs; specific training for PPD staff; purchase
of office and computer equipment and vehicles for departments involved in supervising project
implementation and support to the CUs within the framework of the draft decentralization law; support to
the Communications Unit of MEHU for regular public reports (televised) on project implementation and
environmental awareness-building; support to the UDD for publication of urban and land development
manual and its distribution to CUs; definition of priority projects; and coordinated preparation (State-local
governments-communities) of the 3-year priority investment programs.
Assistance to MEHU will include a study of secondary cities to assist in preparation of a SIL to address the
needs of these cities. Many other donors have expressed interest in financing secondary city development,
and it is expected that this study, and the secondary cities project, will serve as a
comprehensive/coordinating framework for donor interventions. The study will look at the economy of
secondary cities, their linkages with rural areas, organization, finance, level of services to population and
capacity to maintain infrastructure;
(iii) Ministry of Interior, Security and Land Administration. Support to MISAT will strengthen technical
and administrative supervision of local governments through an institutional and organizational audit of
central and line departments, with the aim of providing specific support to local governments in general and
the 3 CUs specifically; support to the PPD to ensure project follow-up and coherence and coordination with
other donor programs and interventions, especially those dealing with decentralization; short-term technical
assistance for audits of CU management of works contracts and services; short-term technical assistance
for ongoing evaluation of services provided by the CU to the population (periodic sample surveys of
beneficiary satisfaction); training of departmental staff (central and line) involved in project implementation
supervision; purchase of computer and office equipment and vehicles for project implementation
-37-



supervision by the UDD.
(c) Information and communications
The project will finance activities to promote transparency in the use of public funds by each of the 3 CUs
and to facilitate communication and exchange of information among the various central government
departments (taxes, treasury) and the CU finance departments. This support will include design and
implementation of information campaigns (radio programs, films, periodic bulletins, etc) for urban
residents to inform them in a clear and simple manner of the use and management of public funds by the 3
CUs; and a feasibility study on networking CU finance departments with the tax and treasury departments,
and with project supervision structures established in the concerned ministries.
(d) Reform of the urban management regulatory framework
This subcomponent will facilitate preparation of reforms in the area of property rights and management of
urban development. It will include definition of reforms in the regulatory framework for urban
management and finalization of urban development regulations and operational texts. In addition, this
subcomponent will include concept work on land privatization and preparation of a pilot operation (LIL) on
urban land privatization;
Implementation: SERHAU-SEM will develop an annual activities program in close consultation with
beneficiaries (CU administrations and PPDs of the involved ministries). The annual programs will specify
the activities and their implementation timetables, implementation procedures, terms of reference,
estimation of costs, procurement methods and the responsibilities and roles of each of the parties with
respect to implementation, project monitoring, supervision and quality assurance The annual programs will
be subject to prior review by IDA and must be approved by the Interministerial Steering Committee. The
approved programs will be annexed to the conventions between SERHAU-SEM and the 3 ministries
involved. In addition, the ministries will be responsible for the following specific project-related tasks:
(a) Ministry of Finance (i) detailing the accounts of the 3 CUs (through the LFMU) in the first phase and
those of other local governments in the second phase; (ii) conducting local public expenditure reviews and
implementing/supervising local finance reform; (iii) following key financial indicators for the 3 CUs; (iv)
integrating urban PIPs into the national urban sector PIP; and (v) preparing, with the assistance of the
General Tax Department, draft texts for local finance reform.
(b) MISAT (PPD): (i) assist CUs with development of procurement management procedures andtrack
procurement; (ii) track local finance reform activities; (iii) assist CUs to ensure the quality of their
information campaigns; (iv) track budget implementation for the 3 CUs, especially the approval process;
and (v) track CU bill processing time for goods and services rendered by the private sector.
(c) MEHU (PPD): (i) track the project and provide the necessary assistance to the ISC and the LSCs; (ii)
ensure quality of studies and support to MEHU; (iii) coordinate and strengthen MEHU support to local
governments, particularly in the areas of environment (with ABE) and urban growth management; and (iv)
track, with the Communications Unit and ABE, implementation of urban environmental awareness-building
campaigns.
Component Financing: This component will be totally funded by the IDA Credit.
-38-



Project Component 2 - US$21.8 million
Rehabilitation and Construction of Basic Urban Infrastructure (Roads and Primary Drainage)
Objectives. The main objectives of the component are to: (i) improve transport conditions and access to
basic services for urban residents of Benin's three main cities, especially those in low-income
neighborhoods which are deprived of these services; and (ii) improve the urban environment and
significantly and sustainably reduce the impact of periodic floods on public health, and private and public
infrastructure in neighborhoods that currently lack primary drainage.
Use of labor-intensive techniques to irnplement works under this component will: (i) create employment,
albeit temporary, for unskilled and semi-skilled labor and thereby reduce urban unemployment; and (ii)
encourage development of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in public works and help develop the
national engineering capacity.
Description. Activities in this component include: (i) rehabilitation (paving and drainage) of the urban road
network; (ii) construction of a primary drainage network in neighborhoods not already served in Cotonou,
Porto Novo and Parakou; (iii) technical studies and supervision needed for implementation of these works;
(iv) assistance to public works SMEs to improve their management capacity; and (v) periodic technical
audits of works and contract management procedures, and financial audits of works. The works were
identified within the CUs' PIPs; one project (the Ahouansouri dike) was identified as a priority by the
community during the preparation of Component 3, but is included in Component 2 due to its size and
importance to the CU as a whole.
During project preparation a feasibility study was conducted on the program of road and drainage works in
the 3 cities. Prioritization of the identified investments was done according to a multicriteria analysis
complemented by economic evaluation. The priority program, object of this project, was determined by the
CUs taking into account the economic return of the investments (NPV >= 12% for roads), complementarity
to existing networks and state of existing neighborhood infrastructure and capacity of the CU to finance
recurrent costs for these investments as well as for existing infrastructure.
Expected results. The following table summarizes the expected infrastructure construction and
rehabilitation for both phases and the entire program (APL). Second phase release will be triggered by
achievement of first phase work targets, especially with regard to implementation of the annual
maintenance program for each CU and contracting out to the private sector. Outcomes and indicators for
this component are summarized in Annex 1.
I        APL                 phase 1              phase 2
Indicators (kms of roads/drains)    Roads   Drainage   Roads    Drainage   Roads    Drainage
Cotonou                          24.2       18.2       10.0      7.2        14.2      11.0
Porto Novo                       8.4        6.6        3.8       3.0        4.6       3.6
Parakou                          1.5        3.0        0.0       0.0        1.5       3.0
Impacts ('000s population served)
Cotonou                          103        37.5       40        16.5       63        21
Porto Novo                       8          9.5        3.5       4.0        5.0       5.5
Parakou                          18         12.7       7.5       7.7        10.5      5.0
-39-



Implementation. Component implementation will be delegated to the Agence dExecution des Travaux
Urbains (AGETUR) of Benin. AGETUR will manage component studies and works on behalf of the 3
CUs according to terms specified in a convention signed by the parties. Based on the priority program
determined during project preparation and outlined above, each CU, with the assistance of its technical
services department will prepare a first phase of priority works for the first three years of the APL (the
proposed project) amounting to roughly 40% of the total amount of the APL. Annual programming of this
phase and conditions for works implementation will be specified in an annex to the conventions between
AGETUR and each CU. Annual works programs will begin only after IDA has reviewed and approved
execution of the previous year's routine maintenance program for each CU. AGETUR will implement the
component according to the PIM, prepared and reviewed by IDA prior to project effectiveness.
AGETUR may utilize consultants to carry out technical studies, preparations of bidding documents, and
works supervision. Consultant dossiers will be submitted for IDA review and approval before launching
the call for bids. Technical studies should take into account recommendations of the environmental impact
assessment done during project preparation and should include, in works, the proposed environmental
mitigation costs and measures. Consultants will be selected according to Bank guidelines on consultant
recruitment. Works will be implemented by firms awarded contracts on the basis of standard bidding
documents. Road paving works contracts will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding and
works will be divided into lots of an appropriate size to enable participation of and engender sufficient
competition among local firms. Works of greater technical complexity and those costing more than
US$250,000 will be contracted on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Before start-up of each operation, AGETUR will organize a 3-4 day training workshop for selected firms.
TIhis training, to be given by public works professionals, will address organization and management of
work sites, SME management, works accounting, and environmental protection and mitigation measures.
AGETUR will also assist the CUs in implementing their information and awareness-building campaigns in
neighborhoods in which works are being done. These campaigns should take place before work start-up
(information on the nature and duration of the works and their impact) and at work completion to mobilize
community participation in maintenance and preservation of public infrastructure.
Implementation timetable. This works program is to be implemented in two phases of 3 years each. Each
phase will undergo annual programming indicating works (roads and drainage collectors) to be
implemented by AGETUR. The second phase will be appraised at the end of the third year of the first
phase. Its content will be reexamined and costs will be updated during the first phase end-of-project
review/second phase appraisal. Launching of the second phase of works will depend on the performance
level attained by the CUs (see Annex 1). Technical studies for first phase works are to be completed 6
months before the start of each annual program.
Component financing. IDA will finance 88% of Component 2 with the remaining financing to come from
counterpart funds. Counterpart funding for the first phase will be provided on a shared basis by the
Government and the CU of Cotonou. If expected parallel financing materializes (in particular, from AFD),
IDA's share of component financing would drop to 64% and would be reallocated to economically justified
program priorities.
Project Component 3 - USS 2.4 million
Community Participation and Integration
-40-



Objective. The main objective of this component is to develop replicable interventions and approaches for
sustainable improvement of the environment and quality of life in low-income neighborhoods in Benin's 3
main cities. The component is designed to incorporate the lessons of the Menontin pilot operation under the
Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project: (i) the need to improve the physical integration of
low-income neighborhoods into the city by linking them to the prinwipal urban road network and facilitating
passage through the neighborhood to improve residents' access to urban services; (ii) the efficacy of
coordinated programming of neighborhood social and economic infrastructure (schools, primary health
centers, markets) by involving beneficiaries in the definition, selection, financing, implementation and
maintenance of this infrastructure; and (iii) the need for community mobilization and technical assistance to
help residents design, mobilize funding for and implement complementary microprojects, essentially funded
by the community, particularly in the areas of health, hygiene, public safety and environmental protection.
Through application of these lessons, the component aims at developinga replicable model of coordinated
programming of neighborhood level projects, financed by local government and beneficiaries and integrated
into the CU's investment plan (PIP) and operation and maintenance activities.
Description. The component comprises 3 main subcomponents: (a) neighborhood infrastructure, consisting
of basic access, social and economic infrastructure in the communities selected for inclusion in the first
phase; (b) community-based activities; and (c) support to community development.
(a) Basic neighborhood infrastructure. Five communities (2 in Cotonou, 2 in Porto Novo and 1 in
Parakou) have been selected for inclusion in the first phase based on relative need, and level of community
organization. During project preparation, infrastructure to be constructed/rehabilitated has been identified
in consultation with the communities according to their priorities. These community requests will be
evaluated and prioritized with the communities during the first year of project implementation.
Works identified include: (i) construction, rehabilitation and management of infrastructure to improve
accessibility of these neighborhoods (roads and drainage) and facilitate their connection to urban services:
neighborhood linking road (4,000 m), opening of local access roads in 2 neighborhoods (3,500 m); (ii)
rehabilitation and construction of neighborhood social and economic infrastructure (primary schools,
community centers, basic health centers and small markets).
Associations or private operators with proven experience will assume management of the economic and
social infrastructure. These managers will be chosen in consultation with the NDCs. A management
contract will be established between the selected operator and the CU before construction or rehabilitaton
works begin.
(b) Community-based activities. The component will finance feasibility, technical and impact studies, and
works for community-based activities determined in consultation with the NDCs: flood-plain management,
tree planting and green space management, collection, disposal and treatment of household wastes,
construction/ rehabilitation of public latrines, management of playgrounds, recreation areas, sporting fields,
meeting halls, pedestrian and cycle paths.
The project will also support initiatives to improve health, hygiene and the environment. These activities
consist of comrnunity awareness-building, support for neighborhood waste precollection sites, sorting and
treatment, and assistance in creating associations or NGOs specifically for routine maintenance of
neighborhood infrastructure and waste management.
(c! Support for community initiatives. Activities included in this subcomponent are designed to promote
-41-



community initiatives and assumption of responsibility by beneficiaries of urban service and infrastructure
management at the neighborhood level and of financing part of the related microprojects. These activities
are also designed to make local governments more responsive to grassroots community initiatives and to
help conununities routinely take charge of infrastructure implementation, maintenance and management to
lower costs for local government. Activites in this subcomponent should also raise awareness of
beneficiary communities of the importance of protecting the neighborhood's environment to their health and
well-being.
The following activities will be financed through this subcomponent:
*   Services of an NGO charged with:
(i) community mobilization and awareness-building on environmental and health issues, preparation of
neighborhood development activities and agreements to be entered into by beneficiaries; and
(ii) recruitment and training of officers for the Community Initiatives Support Units (CISUs) in the three
cities;
*   Initial equipment of the CISUs with computers, office equipment and vehicles;
*   Technical and logistic assistance to the CISUs for design and publication of a neighborhood project
and contract preparation guide;
*   Technical assistance and supporting studies for the design and implementation of information
campaigns on neighborhood projects.
ImplementingAgencies. SERHAU-SEM will be responsible for managing all contracts for studies,
training, technical assistance, infrastructure construction and rehabilitation works under CFAF 30 million,
and purchase of equipment financed through the component (except that for community-based activities).
AGETUR will be responsible for managing those contracts for studies and works, and for supervising
works in this component over CFAF 30 million.
Implementation. The CUs will oversee component implementation. To this end, each CU will create a
Community Initiatives Support Unit (CISU) and recruit staff (sociologist/director and community
mobilization specialist) during the first year of the project with the assistance of SERHAU-SEM. After
training, CISU staff will be responsible for community outreach, assisting communities to develop and
prioritize infrastructure and service initiatives (through development of microproject preparation guide and
technical assistance), responding to community requests through referral to appropriate
departments/integration of community needs into the CU PIP, and keeping the community informed of CU
initiatives in their neighborhoods. During the first phase, the CISUs will work in the communities selected
for participation in the project, with the support of the NGO charged with community mobilization. During
the second phase, the CISUs will begin outreach to other communities in their respective CUs.
During the first 6 months of the project, SERHAU-SEM will competitively select a local NGO, with
proven appropriate experience, to carry out the community mobilization, awareness-building (environment,
health and hygiene, community development), CISU staff training and assistance. The NGO will assist the
communities in creating Neighborhood Development Committees, composed of community leaders and
interested residents, to conduct community outreach, develop and prioritize community requests for
neighborhood projects and community-based activities (with the CISUs), track neighborhood infrastructure
projects, oversee community microproject implementation (mobilize human and financial resources, oversee
works) and organize the community to perform maintenance. CISU staff will be trained'on the ground"
during the first phase by working in the participating communities. The NGO will also manage contracts
for microproject related studies and works with the NDCs. Microprojects will be carried out by
competitively selected small local enterprises (if possible, from the neighborhood). Neighborhood projects
will be subject to contracts between the CU and the community, represented by NDCs. These contracts
-42-



will integrate all neighborhood level activities and specify the respective roles and responsibilities of the
beneficiaries and the CU for project financing, implementation and maintenance. All rights of way for
construction of any such activities must be acquired as a condition of disbursement.
Implementation timetable. Participating communities were selected prior to appraisal on the basis of
objective criteria. Costs of activities financed by the project will be detailed and the participation of the
State, CUs and beneficiary communities will be specified according to the following timetable.
Appraisal achieved the following actions: (i) assessment of the first phase of projects requested by the
communities following the neighborhood study; (ii) evaluation and specification of areas of needed
technical and financial assistance to community initiatives; (iii) identification of NGOs working in the
relevant areas which have the capacity to assist grassroots communities; and (iv) more detailed description
and estimation of component costs and financing. Subproject selection criteria and maximum amounts
should be determined. All of these elements will be collected and analyzed by SERHAU-SEM.
During the first year of project implementation, CISU staff will be recruited and trained and the NDCs will
be created. Infrastructure construction and rehabilitation works which were identified by beneficiaries
during project preparation and selected as priorities by the NDCs will undergo the necessary technical
studies. Procurement will start and contracts awarded. Neighborhood project development guides will be
prepared and ready for distribution. Environmental impact studies on selected works will be done.
During the second and third years, infrastructure and equipment selected, studied, and bid during the first
year, for which financing has been provided will be built/ rehabilitated; neighborhood project development
guides will be distributed and explained; community mobilization for microproject identification will be
carried out. Once identified, the feasibility and environmental, social and economic impact will be studied.
Community financial and in-kind contributions to the community-based activities will be specified as well
as means for implementation and management. Neighborhood projects will be prepared by CISUs on the
basis of their guide, with the assistance of SERHAU and the NGO.
Activities to be undertaken during the second phase will be identified during appraisal of the second phase,
and evaluation of progress made during the first phase. In general, these activities will comprise
continuation of projects already identified but not implemented during the first phase; mobilization and
support to CISUs to replicate the experience in other communities, to be identified during the first phase.
Component financing. The IDA credit will finance 91.5% of Component 3. Communities and CUs will
provide the remaining financing in counterpart funds.
-43-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BENIN: First Decentralized City Management Project
Project Cost by Component Table US$ Million
PROJECT COMPONENT                                                                                 PHASE I
Local              Foreign             TOTAL
1. MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING
a. Capacity Building for CUs                                           0.29   29P          0.65 ). .5j         0.95 ,(.w z5
b. Capacity Building for Line Miunistries                              0.31 m  t           0. 32 '<  2)        0.63 to.
c. Information and Cemnmokcatlons                                      0.05 i              0.02 lO.U2'l        0.07 (v t;
d. Reform of Urban Management Regulation Framework                     0.04 t3()           0. 15 (0 5S         0.19 (0 U:
e. Support to Executing Agencies                                       0.05 m              0.05 05j            0. 11 ,. I
f. Equipment and Logistic Support (goods)                              0.60 U vU:              -               0.60 ":
g. Financial and Audit Services                                        0. 19 k'. i                             0 19 1. 1w
h. Contract Management Fees (Serhau)                                   0. 19   i;)         0. 16 n. u;i        0.35 u i .
Subtotal Component Base Cost                                               1.73 i I T         1.36 1.' j          3.09  i 9
Price Contingencies                                                        0.14   1-:         0.10 .' KU          0.23 tu(S
Physical Contingencies                                                     0. 07   ;                              0.07 ii3
Subtotal Component Cost                                                   1.93  I 93;         1.45 (1.45)         3.39 (3.39)
2. REEIABILITATION AND CONSTRUCTION
OF BASIC URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE
Base Cost:
a. Civil Works                                                   7.11 (6 l    i     ; 8.69 7 S5 T        15.81   1 
b. Engineering Studies and Supervision of Works (Agetur)         0.89 t'             0.99 CZ.m?'         1.88   S
c. Contract Management Fees (Agetur)                             0. 36 ol            0.44 ':.?1          0.80 r uso
Subtotal Component Base Cost:                                             8.36 A7            10.12 S.            18.48 I
Price Contingencies                                                       0.71 ;              0. 86 0,            1.57
Physical Contingencies                                                    0. 77  i            0 94 .94 S 2)       1.72   4 i
Subtotal Component Cost                                                   9.85 f,C?4 1)     11.92 , t .53l       21.77 c. 1943
3. COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION AND INTEGRATION
a. Clvil Works    (Agetur)                                       0.21 f0) l9        0.26 0.23;          0.47   4-3
(Serhau)                                        0 13 IA 11)        0.16 ' -Al           0.29 tv 2 )
b. Goods and Equipment                                           0.01 (3 "l :        0.12  ' 01          0. 14 i I I
c. Consultant and Services (Serhau)                              0.47 (1).47)        0. 12 '. i !        0.58 t0 58
d. Consultant and Services (Agetur)                              0. 05 (0 05         0.07 i .j           0. 12 0. i23
*. Grant (community activities)                                  0. 14  I 1;         0.17 (i6.4)         0.30 '6' t63
f Contract Management Fees (Serhau)                              0.06 (':1J?;;       0.01 inf.vl        0.07 (0 ! ?
g. Contrsct Management Fees (Agetur)                             0.02 (t3.02)        0.04 Q il01         0.06 61.06o
Subtotal Component Base Cost:                                              1.09 tA.02)3       0.94 70.,5)         1.03  :.
Price Contingencies                                                       0.10 w' ;9          0.10 3( '.)         0.20 (;  i3)
Physical Contingencies                                                    0.05 :,;.t          0.08 (' v?l         0.13 *v1l 
Subtotsl Component Cost                                                   1.24 (I.1I6S        1.12 (1i00'         2.36 (2.1 t)
4. REFUNDING OF PROGRAM PREPARATION ADVANCE                               0.35 (4,$5)         0.35 (0U35)    |   0.70 0.?70)
TOTAL BASE COST                                                             11.53 (i0-31)      12.i7 t 1L.S0)      24.30 (22.131i
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                                    0.95 (0.86        1.06 (0.95)          2.00 (1.81)
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                 0.89 (0.7,3)       1.02 (0.88)          1.91 (1.671)
-44..



Estimated Program Costs
Detailed Costs - US $ Million
I (.S3     550 CMF
PRQJECC  COMPONEWT                                                     PHASE 1                         PHASE 2                                  TOTAL
Local         Formign   I     Local           Fcreign          Local          Foreign         TOTAL
L MUNICIPAL MAG-EMENr CAPACITY BUILDING
a. C(pmadty orinugforUrbtanCUs                            0.29 (10.29'   0.65 (065'       0.21 t.21)     0.31 (0.1)       0.51 05))      0.96 (0.96i      1.47 tI.4?)
hCkpadty BuilngforLJeNM btes                              0.31 t.-31)    0.32 (1.i-3)     0.17 !0.,17    0.10 (1 10       0.48 t(:.4i)   0.41 (0.31)      0.89 (i.4!))
c.Iniarmtimaud Iunma                                      0.05 a.0o      0.02 9(21        0.05 w)           ' '           0.10 (t 1(:)    0.02 (0.02,     0.12 co.12'
d.ReArmOn UrbI xMa RanentRegulationllrnework              0.04 (0.041)    0.15 (015)         .                            0.04 (0.045    0.15 t0.i)       0.19 (0190
uppor o ExeutogAgasies                                   0.05 03 05,    0.05 005        0.04 :0.0.      0.02 (o.021     0.09g i 09)    0.07 (0t) (7    0.16 t0.16)
C Equip-and lfAtc Support (p0ods)                          0.60 (0..'l)     -             0.40 Ci.(0u                     1.00 (1.01         -            1.00 (1001
g. Fbmn    tw lAuA t Sevk=                                0.19 (il i9,      -             0.19 0.1          -             0.38 ti) 38)      -             0.38 tO.38)
i Clutd hbnguui F.m (S9ahau)                               0.19  '0. M')    0.16 (016)    0.15 (0 A S,    0.06 (00I),i    0.34 (0.3-1)    0.2.X)          0.56 (t) 6
Subtotal CmnpameuttBaseCost                                  1.73 (1 71.)    1.36 (; 30i )   1.20 (1. 20)   0.48 (lI.4x)    2.93 (2-' 933   1.84 k1.84)     4.77 (4.17)
Pdte Omodgedes                                               0.14 i0 34\    0.10 (0 100     0.22 (0.2 22    0.09 i(u.()     0.36 t) 36)     0.18 'O IS)     0.55 (&.55)
Phlyi lCamdndmd                                              0.07 ot,1 tl.                  0.05 :0 05)1-                   0.11 (A11;         --           0.11 (1.11)
Subtotal Campment Cost                                       1.93(1.3)    1.45 (1.4)        1.48 (1.43)     0.57 (0.51)     3.41 (3.41)     2.02 (2.02)     5.43 t5.4)
2. REHABILl'MATION AND CONSIRUCtION_
IF BASIC URBAN INFRRASTRCTURE
4  a as  w.                                           7.11 f6.1to    8.69 f>533      8.66 4- 5 }    10.58 (,3.18)   15.77 {l3.f,?)    19.27 I(3f>-1}    35.04 ;5377nJ3.0) 19.2 (16 1)    3.04 (0.38
b.6 hgbwding SuMia  idl Superlsio ofWmr   (Agetur)  0.89 (( 39J     0.99 ,.xi9       0.97 0.971      1.15  6.15       86 (I  )       2.14 (211)      4.00 (4.t3t)
c.CQutraet t_ugpatFea(Agetur)                         0.36 ('1)6,    0.44 4;I.4;     0.43i(- 0J'     0.53 .0.57)     0.79 (0.h       0.96 (0.96)     1.76 (17?6)
Subtottl C.mpineut BeCost:                                   8.36. 1)13   10.12t 895       10.06 8.921    12.26 (i;186)    18.43 (1d  3)   22.3$  lIV.iI)   40.80 (36.4)
Pritce Caoingenes                                            0.71 ( 3.63.   0.86 (o.76)     2.16 1 92;      2.63 t2 34)     2.87 (2.55)     3.50 (3.10)     6.37 005.)
Physkl Cundng.des                                            0.77 (0_6?   i 0.94 (.382;      1.05 (! )14,   1.29 i112i      1.82 $1_58,)    2.23 (1.93)1    405 (3.51)
SubtotalCmpment Cost                                         9.85 (8.713  11.92 (0O.5.3)    13.28 (L7S)   16.18 (14 3i)   23.12 (20.*i)  28.10 (24M.S)   51.22 (4!;.30)
3. CONMUNIY PATIMCIPATION AND INTEGRATION
a. vwgWe        Ae)                                   0.21 k0t i9-    0.26 ,0Y1,     0.16 (0.13'     0.19 ";!.161    0.37 k0 3 !)    0.45 (O039)     0.82 (O.-1)
i3edLxu)                              0.13 (i. !3   0.16 (9141        0.12 jO  .3    0.14 .0.I2)      0.25 (0.21)     0.30 (0.256     0.55 (0 4)7)
b.Goods aiippqulat                                    0.01 (0 o1,   0.12             0.02 (0.02)     0.18 (,l5l      0.03 0tJa)      0.30 `0 2i')    0.34 (0.29)
C. C _ul tmta9ndSerin(Sduau)                          0.47 6(1.471    0.12 (u 121    0.44 ..9 4/;    0.11 .0.)1;     0.90 (M.9u)     0.23 (03.23)    1.13 (.13)
aci1mtu noSenkin  (Agetur)                            0.05 0.t3)    0.07 (0.07)      0.03 0(,3I      0.05 k3) 05)    0.08 (0.0.$)    0.12 t0.I')    0.20 (0.20 I
c. G. t(omaluulity-ImedadillVftls)                    0.14 (-1 1I   0.17 (              -. -i ..                     0.14 ( 11 I,    0.17 ('1 1.hi   0.30 40.26)
CCutra Mung         t Fen(Setzu)                      0.06 ttG.09)    0.01 (0,W1)    0.05 (liOS)     0.01 to  1))    0.1 I(;). i)    0.03 i(.03);)   0.14 (0,14i
&. CU_stMumas(AntFina(Agetuw)                         0.02 ('3)02     0.04 .i(41     0.01 (O 01)     0.03 (0.03)     0.04 ( 041      0.06 (0).('6    0.10 tOl.l)
Subtol Cnpment tBaseCost:                                    1.09 ii 07)    0.94 (O 8li     0.83 (0.-h)     0.72 (t.64)     1.91  tI 80)    1.66 il 49)     3.57 (3.29)
Paice Conagaaidt                                             0.10 (0.t19)    0.10 ftoo,))   0.16 ,0)16)     0.13 (0.12i     0.27 (0.25)     0.23 (0.21)     0.49 ((L46)
Plkacal CUIUJIng.IGes                                        0.05 (;).oS    0.08 (1.07)     0.03 it" 0;)    0.06 (0 OSti    0.09 (o.0"8    0.14 (0. 1 2)    0.23 t(O.I)
Subtotl Calp(Maat Cost                                       1.24 (1.16)    1.12 (1A00M      1.02 (0.97)    0.91 tO.81)     2.27 (2.13)     2.03 (1.81)     4.30[(.94)
D. RFUNDIG OF PROGRAM PREPARATIONADVANCE                     0.35 (03!51    0.35 40.'SI         -.                           035 (4015)      0.35 (03.5)     070 t!k7l)
TOTALBASECOST                                                 11.53 (10.51) 12.77 (11.50)    12.09 (1(1.91)  13.45 (11.911)   23.62 (21.42)   2622 (23,49j   49.85 (44.90)
TTALPRICECONT11NGENCES                                         0.95 (.86")    1.06 (0.95)        2 S2.3t)     2.86 02.5.4)     3.50 (3.16)    3.91 (3.49)      7.41 (6i65)
TOTALPHYSICALCONaINGNCIS                                      0.89 (t0.X784    1.02 (01.88)   1.14 (0-1.9)   1.35 (1.1-)     2.03 (1.77)     2.37 (2.05)      4.39 (3.N2)
TCYrALPROGRAMCX)ST                                            13.37 (12.15)  14.85 t(3.3414    15.78 (1-4.2)   17.66 (15.619)   29.15 (26.J5)   32.50 (29).03?   61.65 (55.38)



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BENIN: First Decentralized City Management Project
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF
URBAN ROADS REHABILITATION
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
1.    The economic analysis, based on a cost-benefit analysis, examined a program of priority urban
road works in the three CUs. The analysis covered all primary and secondary roads to evaluate the "with
project" and "without project" costs and benefits for each rehabilitation site (road). A simnilar approach
was attempted for the primary drainage system program but was abandoned due to a lack of reliable data
(i.e. the economic and health impacts of a cessation of recurrent flooding and drainage).
2.    The economic approach described above allowed to select a priority investment program for each
city. The ERR for each rehabilitation site range between 13 and 104% for Cotonou and between 12 and
34% for Porto Novo. However, for Parakou no road investrnent was found to be economically justified
except those road sites already selected as part of the EU-financed program. The NPV (for a discount rate
of 12%) is estimated at CFAF 3.9 billion for the priority investment programn of Cotonou and Porto Novo.
3.    Fiscal impact. The fiscal impact has been deternined relative to the additional recurrent costs
incurred by each CU to provide for maintaining projected investments (roads and drainage system). These
costs were determined as explained above and added to the maintenance costs of existing infrastructure and
other urban assets. The PIP has been readjusted for each city to align the required annual maintenance cost
with the city's financial capacity. The additional annual maintenance costs for Cotonou will be CFAF 424
million (a relative increase of 64%), for Parakou will be CFAF 51 million (a relative increase of 127%) and
for Port Novo will be CFAF 92 million (a relative increase of 116%).
Main Assumptions:
4.    Economic criteria for selection and prioritization of infrastructure investment were the economic
rate of return (ERR) and the net present value (NPV) of each proposed investment. The cut-off ERR is
12%. The priority investment program was determined on the basis of the above economic criteria and
other parameters such as: population served and accessibility to low income neighborhoods, contribution to
the connectivity of the network, complementary between the road and the drainage networks.
5.    The only road user benefits valued are those involving vehicle operating costs. The value of time
saviiigs was not taken into account, neither was the cost of congestion on existing roads that will be
relieved once alternate roads are paved, nor the benefits derived from induced traffic on improved roads.
These conservative assumptions allow for a cautious economic evaluation.
6.    Construction and Maintenance Costs. Road construction/rehabilitation costs are based on the
financial costs of road works, net of tax, to adjust for economic costs. The financial costs are taken to be
the amounts of AGETUR's last contracts for similar works plus provision for costs of the environmental
mitigation actions identified by the Environmental Analysis.
7.    Taking into account the pavement technology specified for this project (interlocking pavement
blocks on a sand-covered base), the roads to be rehabilitated will require minimum maintenance during the
first 20 years, provided that regular routine maintenance is carried out. Maintenance unit costs and
standards "with project" and "without project" are taken to be those currently used by the CUs in their
respective cities applied to roads in similar conditions (paved and earth roads for "with project" and
-46-



"without project" scenarios respectively).
8.    Vehicle Operating Costs and Traffic. Vehicle operating costs (VOC) were derived using Highway
Design and Maintenance Standards Model III (HDM III) VOC subroutine for different road conditions
reflecting local costs for those categories of roads under consideration in each city (paved and earth, fair to
bad condition, etc.). Unit costs for VOC inputs were updated to account for the specific economic
conditions of Benin and its fleet (imports of used vehicles and predominance of motorbikes in urban areas).
A speed range of 15 to 45 km per hour was considered in relation to the road capacity, condition and urban
environment. VOC were determined for three classes of vehicles representative of Benin's urban traffic
(see below).
9.     Traffic counts were made twelve hours a day over five consecutive days on the road sections to be
improved in the three cities. For roads that are in such poor condition as to be impassable, an estimate of
diverted traffic, after improvements, was made by comparison to similar situations observed in the previous
urban project. Although all categories of vehicles were counted, they were regrouped in the following
three classes: motorbikes (more than 50% of the traffic), light vehicles (private cars and small trucks) and
heavy vehicles (trucks and buses). VOC were computed for each category of vehicle then weighted to
reflect the average cost by class.
10.    Future traffic demand is assumed to depend on demographic growth and economic activities of
each city. Past traffic growth was extremely high, reflecting the economic "catch-up" started by the sudden
national economic revival (starting in 1990) after a long period of economic stagnation. Traffic is assumed
to increase at a stabilized growth rate of 5% per year for Porto Novo, 5% to 7% in Cotonou in relation to
the position of each road, and around 4% for Parakou. These are reduced to an average of 4% per year
after 2003.
Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
11.   The sensitivity analysis, considering a 10% reduction in the benefits along with a 10% increase in
investment costs, shows no change in the composition of the PIP while the ERR slipped by two to three
points depending on each site.
-47-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BENIN: First Decentralized City Management Project
Implementation Period                         TOTAL
---------------US $ million -----------------       Incl. Cont.
Phase I                           Phase 2
Required Financing       Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Total   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Total
Proiect Cost
Physical Investment Cos    5.18  7.95    8.28    21.40    9.61     9.64    8.24    27.50      48.90
Engineering and Services    1.57  2.52   2.04     6.12    2.09     2.30     1.55    5.93      12.06
Refunding                                         0.70                                         0.70
Total                       6.75    10.47    10.31    28.23    11.70    11.94  9.79   33.43       61.66
. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  j i     ;i
Financing
IDA                         6.05    9.47     9.28    25.49    10.44    10.71   8.73    29.88      55.37
Govrnment
Central                 0.51     0.71    0.73     1.95    0.50     0.52    0.46     1.49       3.44
Local                   0.19     0.26    0.22     0.67    0.69     0.70    0.60     1.98       2.66
Parallel Financing                                  (5.45)
Beneficiaries                       0.03     0.08    0.11     0.07    0.01              0.08       0.19
Total                       6.75    10.47    10.31    28.23    11.70    11.94  9.79    33.43      61.66
-48-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BENIN: First Decentralized City Management Project
Procurement
The project appraisal included a formal Procurement Assessment Review (PAR) of AGETUR and
SERHAU-SEM, the implementing agencies for the proposed project. It should be noted that neither
agency, as a private entity, is required to comply with the national procurement code. The PAR was limited
to assessing the procurement capacity of and procedures and documentation used by these agencies, as they
had already demonstrated satisfactory performance in the implementation of the Bank-financed Urban
Rehabilitation and Management Project (URMP) from 1993 to 1997. The PAR conclusions are as follows:
(i) both agencies have qualified staff with thorough knowledge of Bank procurement procedures, and
possess satisfactory procurement experience acquired during the URMP implementation; (ii) AGETUR
and SERHAU-SEM have adopted Bank procurement procedures and standard bidding documents for their
own and client (other donor) business; (iii) each agency has specialized staff handling respectively
procurement for consultant services and procurement for works and goods; and (iv) both agencies have
maintained up-to-date computerized standard bidding documents conforming to the Bank's procurement
documents. AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM management confirmed their use of Bank procurement
procedures and their readiness to comply with the January 1999 revisions of these procedures.
For LACI implementation, both agencies agreed with the Bank proposal to set upprocurement monitoring
and contract management systems during the first year of the project, to facilitate the development of the
PAR. (see Annex 11 for details)
Procurement methods (Table A)
Tables A. 1. and A.2. show expected procurement by category of expenditure for the project and the
program respectively. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will apply the
procurement procedures and arrangements outlined below. Bank standard bidding documents will be used
in the proposed project.
Goods and Works. The procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).
Civil works. To generate employment and promote participation of local small and medium-size
contractors, AGETUR will divide infrastructure rehabilitation programs into appropriately-sized contract
packages, incorporating designs for labor-intensive construction, subject to IDA review. Since an adequate
number of small and medium-size contractors developed under the Urban Management and Rehabilitation
Project, all works contracts of amounts up to US$250,000 equivalent each (up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed US$11,600,000) will be procured according to National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA. All works contracts of amounts exceeding US$250,000 will be procured according to
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Major drainage works have been identified as
suitable for ICB procurement. For Component 3, works under US$30,000 will be carried out by
SERHAU-SEM. Such works will be procured according to procedures applied by the Neighborhood
Development Committees and deemed acceptable to IDA. The procedures will consist of obtaining quotes
from 3 qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The contract is to be awarded to
-49-



the lowest bidder with the appropriate experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Goods. Contracts for goods mainly comprise office supplies and equipment and a reduced number of
vehicles. Goods and equipment will be procured under NCB procedures for those contracts with an
estfimated individual value greater than US$30,000 but under US$100,000 (up to an aggregate amount of
US$360,000 or less). Those contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more will be procured
under ICB. Individual contract packages with a value of less than US$30,000 and totaling a maximum of
US$140,000 will be procured through National Shopping (NS)on the basis of price quotations obtained
from at least three qualified suppliers to ensure competitive prices.For Component 3, goods for activities
to be carried out by SERHAU-SEM will be procured according to procedures applied by the Neighborhood
Development Committees as described above for civil works.
Review. Contracts for civil works and goods estimated to cost respectively US$100,000 and US$50,000
equivalent or more each will be subject to prior review. For such contracts, the bidding documents,
advertisements, bid evaluation reports and proposed contract awards will be reviewed by IDA prior to
solicitation of bids and award of contracts. All ICB civil works procurement will be subject to prior review.
Contracts for goods and works not subject to prior review will be subject instead to post review. All
procurement documentation will be retained at the implementing agencies for random review by IDA staff
and for annual audits. In addition, special monitoring will be introduced by requesting quarterly progress
reports on procurement and financial status. The content of these reports will be discussed and agreed upon
during negotiations and implemented during the first year of the project.
Consultant services. All consultant services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January
1997, revised in Septernber 1997 and January 1999). The Bank'sStandard Requestfor
Proposal-Selection of Consultants (dated July 1997, revised April 1998) will be used.
The Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method will be used to procure consultant services. This
includes advisory services, studies, training and technical assistance for CUs and line ministries;
engineering services and supervision of works for AGETUR. For contracts above US$100,000,
advertisement to solicit expressions of interest will be issued in U.N. Business Development. For these
contracts, technical evaluations must receive IDA non-objection before financial proposals are opened. For
consultant service contracts in Component 2 which cost less than US$200,000 per contract, a shortlist
entirely consisting of national consultants may be used, in accordance with theGuidelines for the Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Consultant services for small studies and
specific training which can be delivered by individual consultants will be selected on the basis of
Consultants' Qualifications for the assignment. Sole source selection will be used for AGETUR and
SERHAU-SEM services under the project, and, in exceptional cases as agreed by IDA, for specific training
activities, and only for contracts with firms or individuals which do not exceed US$30,000.
Prior Review. Procurement decisions for consulting service contracts with firms valued at more than
US$50,000 equivalent and with individuals and for training activities valued at over US$10,000 equivalent
will be subject to IDA prior review. For contracts with finns and individuals below the values specified
just above, the borrower should submit for IDA review and comment, the draft request for proposals,
including Terms of Reference and shortlist, prior to soliciting proposals from any firm or individual. In
addition, the first three contracts for consulting services will be subject to IDA prior review irrespective of
their value.
-50-



Procurement implementation. AGETUR will procure all conacts for works and goods under
Componnt 2. SERHAU-SEM  will be responsible for procurement of consutant services and goods under
Components 1 and 3. As in the Urban Rehabili                and Managemt Project, both implm eting agencies
will be hired by the Goverment of Benin (on a sole source basis) to assist CUs and line ministries in
implementing the proposed project. As such, the  automous unplemening agencies will operate under
delegated magement contracts to be signed between the CUs and AGETUJRfor physical activies
(works) and between the Government, represented by MISAT and MEHU, and SERHAU-SEM  for the
remaining activities of the project. lThese contracts will stipulate the payment ofnanagement fees for the
implementing agencies, not exceed 4.5% and 12% of the cost of activities managed respectively by
AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM. Management fees will be paid as the corresponding activities are
implemented.
Modification or Waiver. Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the terms and
conditions of contract which would increase the cost of the contract by more than 5% of the original price,
the borrower should inform IDA of the proposed modification and reasons therefore.
Table A.1.
Phase 1 Procurement Arrangements (including contingencies)
(US$ Million)
Expenditure Cate.orv                                                      Procurement MethcI                      Total Cost
_______________________________________________________________  . ICB        NCB              Other           (incl cont.) 
1. Civil Works
(a) Infrastructure rehabilitation (Part B)               7.27  0f2i3)    11.60  1 0.0                      18.87 (16.33w
tb) Cornunuity Participation and Integrstion (Part C)
(i) AGETUR                                                             0.57 16 SW;                       0.57 i 50)
(ii) SERHAU                                                            0.36 fl O I 0                     0.36 (0,30)
2. Goods
(a) Municipal Management Capacity Building (Part A)      0.36              0.36    .36                       0.72 0.7P2'
(b) Community Participation and Integration (Part C)                       0.17 t;. ib4t                     0.17 tO. 14)
3 Consultant Services and traininz
(a) Infrastructure rehabilitation (Part B)                                                  2.32 (2.32)      2.32 (232 ?
(b) Murnicipal Management Capacity Building (Part A)                                        2.04 (2 04i      2.04 (2.04)
(c) Community Participation and Integration (Part C)                                        0.7.5 fi076i     0.76 (0, 7ti
4 Grants for NDAs under Part C of the Proiect                                   0.37 '0 .32)                      0.37 (0.32)
5 Manasement fees
(a) Management fees Agetur                                                                  0.93  1 0 i      0.93 (0,93)
(b) Management fees Serhau                                                                  0.42 (0.13       0.42 ttl,423
4. Refunding of Program Preparation Advance                                                      0.70 (0d . 70)    0.70 (tt270
Total                                                          7.63 "          13.42 {lI 6')    7.17 (7.17)    28.22 (25.4'D;
Note: Part A refers to Project Component I
Part B refers to Project Component 2
Part C refers to Project Component 3
-51-



Table A.2.
Procurement Arrangements for the Program
I USS mion)
_________ = 1_____1_    Total Cost
ICB            NCB              Other          (hnd cont.)
(a) kftaatucturabilitation (Part B)         23.46 (20.40)  21.11 (IK,.25)                       44.57 (38.65)
(b) Comwmity Participation and Integration (Part C)
(i)AQETUR                                                1.02 f(.89)                         1.02 (0.89)
())SERHAU                                                0.69 (10.59)                        0.69 (0.59)
) Municipal Manaennt Capacity Buiding (Part A)   0.63 (0,(1; )    0.63 (0.6f3)                   1.26 (1.26)
,b) Community Participation and Integration (Part C)         0.43 (0 36.)                        0.43 (0.36)
(a) Municipal Management Capacity Building (Part A)                              3.62  3.62)     3.62 (3.62)
(b) Infrastructure rehabilitation (Part B)                                       4.62 (,.6)      4.62 (4.62)
(c) Community Participation and Integration (Part C)                             1.52 ( 1. M)    1.52 (1.52)
4. Grairts for NDAs under Part C of the Proiect                   0.37 (03:?.)                        0.37 (0.32)
(a) Management fees Agetur                                                       2.14 '?.i4)     2.14 (2.14)
(Lb)Management fees Serhau                                                       0.71 {071)      0.71 014.71)
6. Refundig of Progam Preparation Advance                                             0.70 (0 70)     0.70 (0.770)
- 24.09 (21 t.    24.25 (21. J3)   13.31 (i.3,)  61.65 (55.3XJ
Note: Part A refers to Component I
Part B refers to Component 2
Part C refers to Component 3
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Review. Contracts for civil works and goods estimated to cost more than US $100,000 equivalent each will
be subject to prior review. For such contracts, the bidding documents, advertisements, bid evaluation
reports and proposed contract awards will be reviewed by IDA prior to solicitation of bids and award of
contracts. All !CB civil works procurement will be subject to prior review. Contracts for goods will be
subject to either: (a) post review for contracts estimated at between US $15,000 and US $100,000
equivalent; or (b) random post review for contracts estimated at less than US $15,000. For the latter,
expenditures will be made out of certified Statements for Expenditures (SOEs) and documentation will be
retained at the imnplementing agencies for random review by IDA st.ff and for annual audits. In addition,
special monitoring will be introduced by requesting quarterly progress reports on procurement and financial
stats. The content of these reports will be discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
-52-



Procurement Readiness. Schedule and Supervision Arrangements. With the current project processing
schedule, no retroactive financing will be necessary for the project. The first contracts to be executed
would relate to the technical studies to prepare bidding documents and blue prints for civil works to be
executed by the second half of the first year of the project implementation. Procurement plans (PP) have
been prepared by the implementing agencies and reviewed during appraisal. These plans will be finalised
during negotiations and would serve as a basis for periodic updating of the project procurement monitoring
management and capacity of each agency will be agreed upon during negotiations. A filing system along
with an integrated procurement management system will be implemented to facilitate the putting in place of
the LACI system by the end of the first year of the project.
Table B
Review Thresholds
Expenditure             Contract Value         Procurement        Estmated Total
Category             (Threshold) (US$)          Method          Value Subject to
Pror Reuew
1. Works                       Up to 250,000              NCB           PR = 11,600,000
Above 250,000             ICB             PR = 7,270,000
2. Goods                        Up to 30,000             Other
between 30,000 and 100,000      NCB             PR = 360,000
Above 100,000              ICB            PR = 360,000
3. Engineering, Technical                               CQCBS            PR = 4,920,000
Assistance and Training        Under 30,000           Sole Source        PR = 200,000
4. Management Fees for                                Sole Source        PR = 1,350,000
Project Implementing Agencies
(Agetur and Serhau)
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Tables C. 1. (project) and C.2.(program). The IDA project
credit will be disbursed over a period of 3 years (from 2000 to 2002), with a closing date of December 31,
2002. The anticipated closing date of the APL will be May 31, 2005.
All applications to withdraw the proceeds of the credit will be fully documented for contracts subject to
prior review by IDA. For contracts not subject to IDA prior review, disbursements will be made against
-53-



Statements of Expenditure (see below) certified by the Director of the responsible Implementing Agency.
Given the availability of the Special Accounts, the minimum application for direct payments will normally
be for the equivalent of US $20,000. The amounts to be financed under each category are shown below.
Table C.1.
Phase 1 Allocation of Credit
Amount in         Financing
Expenditure Category                                  US$ million        Percentage
1) Civil W o rks
(a) Works under Part B (Component 2)                       13.68   90%
(b) Works under Part C (Component 3)
(i) AGETUR                                             0.42   85%
(ii) SERHAU                                            0.2 5   85%
2) Goods
(a) Equipment under Part A (Component 1)                    0.60   100%
(b) Equipment under Part C (Component 3)                    0.12   85%
3) Consultant Services and Training
(a) AGETUR Consultant                                       2.00   100%
(b) SERHAU Consultant                                       2.72   100%
4) Grant for NDAs under Part C of the Project                  0.26   90%
5) Management Fees
(a) AGETUR Management Fees                                  0.86   100%
(b) SERHAU Management Fees                                  0.39   100%
6) Refunding of Proiect Preparation Advance                    0.70
7) Unallocated                                                 3.5 1
TOTAL                                                         25.49
-54-



Table C.2.
Allocation of Credit for Program
Am ount in            Financing
Expenditure Category                                     U SS million          Percentage
I ) Civil W orks
(a)Works under PartB (Component 2)                             30.38    90%
(b) Works under Part C (Component 3)
(i) AGETUR                                                 0.71    85%
(ii) SERHAU                                                0.47    85%
2) Goods
(a) Equipm ent under Part A (Com ponent 1)                       I .00    100 % of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(b) Equipm ent under Part C (Com ponent 3)                       0 .2 9   85%
3) Consultant Services and Training
(a) AGETUR Consultant                                            4.20    100%
(b) SERHAU Consultant                                            4.3 5   100%
4) Grant for NDAs under Part C of the Proiect                       0.26    90%
5) M anagem ent Fees
(a) AGETUR Management Fees                                       1.86    100%
(b) SERHAU M anagement Fees                                      0.63    100%
6) Refundine of Proiect Preparation Advance                         0.70
7) Unallocated                                                     10.53
TO TAL                                                             5 5.3 7
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
IDA may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, works
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, consultants' services (firms) under contracts
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each, consultants' services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding
$10,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
Special account:
Special Accounts. To expedite disbursement and ensure that project funds will be available when needed,
the borrower will open two Special Accounts, in the names of SERHAU-SEM and AGETUR, in a local
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized balance of the special accounts will be US$1.0
million equivalent for the AGETUR Special Account, and US$0.3 million equivalent for the
SERHAU-SEM Special Account, both denominated in CFA francs. The amounts are estimated to cover
about four months of expenditures. The Special Accounts will be replenished through the submission of
fully documented withdrawal applications to IDA. Reimbursement applications submitted against the two
Accounts will include a bank statement showing account activity since the last application, with the balance
-55-



certified by the bank holding the Special Accounts, and a reconciliation statement. The implementing
agencies will submit replenishment requests to the Special Accounts on a quarterly basis, or whenever the
accounts are diminished by one third, whichever comes first.
Counterpart Funds - Project Account. The borrower will open, in a local commercial Bank acceptable to
IDA, a Project Account (PA) in the name of AGETUR, to cover counterpart financinirincluding the
contribution of the CU of Cotonou in the first phase) of project components. The borrower, through the
Ministry of Finance, will deposit into the PA an initial amount of CFAF 80,000,000.
The PA will be replenished every first working day of each quarter commencing on the second day of
January 2000. PA replenishment will be made by the MOF (and the CU of Cotonou with regard to its
contribution amounting to 5% of investments in Cotonou) on the basis of applications submitted by
AGETUR including a statement of PA activity since the last application and projections of required
counterpart funds corresponding to ongoing project activities.
Accountina and Auditing AGETUR and SERHAU will each maintain separate accounting records for the
project components that they manage directly. The existing accounting and financial management system,
reviewed by the Bank Financial Management Specialist, will be used and improved during the first year of
the project to prepare for LACI application. In additionto their financial statemenits, both agencies agreed
to submit a quarterly report, one month after the end of each quarter, presenting a summary of sources and
uses of funds, procurement/contracts schedule and statement and summary of expenditures by component
and by category. Assurance has been obtained from the borrower that implementing agency accounts and
financial statements, and project accounts including the Special Accounts maintained by each agency, will
be audited annually in accordance with international audit standards by experienced and recognize&audit
firms satisfactory to IDA.
At the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six months after its completion, the Govermment will present
to IDA audit reports of the Special Accounts and Project Account with the special opinion on the use of the
Special Accounts and the SOEs. All civil works managed by AGETUR will be the object of a technical
audit, by an independent experienced engineering consultant. A technical audit report will be submitted
within four months of completion of each tranche of works.
-56-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BENIN: First Decentralized City Management Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)
Appraisal mission departure              01/22/99                   02/14/99
Negotiations                            02/22/98                    04/03/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness           09/01/99                   I
Prepared by:
MISAT/MEHU, CUs of Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou
Preparation assistance:
SERHAU-SEM, AGETUR, Mdnontin Socio-Medical Association
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Hedi Larbi                        Civil engineering, municipal finance, economics
Patrick Canel                     Municipal administration, finance
Alison Cave                       Urban planning, municipal institutions, urban environment
Rumana Huque                      Urban planning, community development
Kamla Pariadhaven                 Team assistant
Quality Assurance Team:
George Gattoni                   Urban poverty, community development
Robert Robelus                    Environment
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt             Environment
Carl Bartone                      Solid waste management
Alberto Harth                     Urban planning, municipal administration, community development
Jim Wright                        Municipal finance
-57-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BENIN: First Decentralized City Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Draft Project Implementation Manual, April 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-Memoires:
1. Preidentification Mission (June 24-28 and July 9-11, 1997)
2. Identification Mission (November 17-21, 1997)
3. Follow-up Mission (July 5-9, 1998)
4. Preappraisal Mission (December 1-13, 1998)
5. Appraisal Mission (February 15-20, 1999)
Project Concept Documents:
6. Initial Project Concept Document (January 23, 1998)
7. Draft Project Concept Document (February 17, 1998)
8. Final Project Concept Document (December 22, 1998)
9. Environmental Data Sheet: January 6, 1999
10. Analysis of Financial Management System
1 1. Numerous e-mail communications from members of the Quality Assurance, Country and Project teams,
and resident mission staff.
C. Other
1. Urban Sector Strategy Note: drafts and final
Project Review Meeting Minutes:
2. Quality Assurance Team Review (February 12, 1998)
3. Concept Review Meeting (March 9, 1998)
4. Country Team Meeting (June 8, 1998)
5. Appraisal Decision Meeting (February 4, 1999)
Feasibility Studies/Environmental Impact Assessments:
6. Project Appraisal Study: November 1998
7. Feasibility Study (including Environmental lmpact Assessment) for Urban Infrastructure in Cotonou,
Porto Novo and Parakou: drafts and final report (December 1998)
8. Feasibility Study for Community Participation and Integration Component: drafts and final report
(November 1998)
9. Feasibility Study on Training for Local Government and Line Ministries: final report (July 1998)
-58-



10. Preparatory Study Reports on Secondary Cities,Allada, Pobe, Aplahoue-Azove, Djougou, Malanville,
Cove and Zagnanado: draft report (August 1998) and final report (January 1999).
11. Various studies from other donors (8eme FED, CIDA, etc)
Borrower Documents and Decrees:
12. Lettre de Politique de Gestion des Services Urbains de Cotonou, Parakou et Porto-Novo (Letter of
Sector Policy), approved by the Cabinet on March 10, 1999 and earlier drafts.
13. Les Arretes prefectoraux signes portant creation des SAIC de Cotonou, Porto-Novo et Parakou (signed
prefectoral decrees creating the CISUs of Cotonou, Porto-Novo and Parakou).
14. I'Arrete ministeriel portant repartition de la taxe de voirie aux 3 Circonscriptions Urbaines (ministerial
decree enabling reallocation of the road tax to the 3 CUs).
15. Curricula vitae of key CU staff.
16. Maintenance programs planned in the 1999 budgets of Cotonou, Parakou and Porto Novo.
17. le Decret portant creation du Comite Interministeriel de Suivi du projet (Decree to establish the
Interministerial Steering Committee for the Project).
18. le Protocole d'accord sign6 entre la Circonsription Urbaine de Cotonou et l'Etat (signed Convention
between the CU of Cotonou and the State).
19. le Protocole d'accord signe entre la Circonsription Urbaine de Porto-Novo et l'Etat (signed Convention
between the CU of Porto Novo and the State).
20. le Protocole d'accord signe entre la Circonsription Urbaine de Parakou et l'Etat (signed Convention
between the CU of Parakou and the State).
21. le Protocole daccord signe pour la mobilisation des ressources fiscales pour l'exercice 1999 et pour la
periode 1999-2000 pour Cotonou (signed Convention for fiscal resource mobilization for FY 99, covering
the period 1999-2000, for Cotonou.
22. le Protocole d'accord signe pour la mobilisation des ressources fiscales pour l'exercice 1999 et pour la
periode 1999-2000 pour Porto-Novo (signed Convention for fiscal resource mobilization for FY 99,
covering the period 1999-2000, for Porto-Novo.
23. le Protocole d'accord signe pour la mobilisation des ressources fiscales pour l'exercice 1999 et pour la
p6riode 1999-2000 pour Parakou (signed Convention for fiscal resource mobilization for FY 99, covering
the period 1999-2000, for Parakou.
24. Draft delegated contract management agreement between the State and SERHAU-SEM.
25. I'Arrete ministeriel sign6 portant attributions, organisation et fonctionnement de la Direction generale
du Tresor et de la Comptabilite publique (signed ministerial decree establishing roles, organization and
function of the General Directorate of the Treasury and of the Public Accounting Department).
26. Convention Cadre (project framework agreement).
27. Miscellaneous conununications (letters, faxes, e-mail communications among the Government of Benin,
the implementing agencies and the Bank.
Including electronic files
-59-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BENIN: First Municipal Adjustment Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                               IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Refd
Number of Closed Projects: 33
BJ-PE-3545     1998 GOVERNMENT                  SOCIAL FUND                            0.00       16.70       0.00      16.82      0.61      000
BJ-PE-57345    1998 GOVERNMENT                  BORGOU PILOT RSP                       0.00        4.00       0.00       4.07      1.14      0.00
BJ-PE-117      1997 GOVERNMENT                  TRANSPORTSECTOR                        0.00       40.00       0.00      28.75     11.94      0.00
BJ-PE-112      1995 GOVT. OF BENIN              ENV. MANAGEMENT PROJ                   0.00        8.00       0.00       5.29      1 98      1.98
BJ-PE-118      1995 GOVERNMENT OF BENIN N       POPULATION AND HEALT                   0 00       27,80       0.00      22.21     18,96     12 36
BJ-PE-103      1994 GOVERNMENT                  EDUCATION DEVELOPMEN                   0.00       18.10       0.00      12.50     11.57      218
BJ-PE-118      1994 REPUBLICOFBENIN             ECON.MGMT.                             0.00        520        0.00       3.24      3.38      3.20
BJ-PE-121      1994 GOVr OF BENIN               RURAL WATER SUPPLY &                   0.00        9 80       0.00       4.90      4.97      3.67
BJ-PE-99       1994 GOVERNMENT                  FOOD SECURITY                          000         9.70       000        300       1.96      1.16
BJ-PE-120      1993 GOVERNMENT                  RURAL CREDIT II                        0.00        3.80       0.00        1.93     1 71      1.61
BJ-PE-106      1992                             MGTOFNATRESOURCES                      0.00       14.10       0.00       039       -0.13     013
BJ-PE-105      1991                             AGRIC. SERVICES                        0.00       12.30       0.00        1.75     0.82      0.81
Total:      0.00      169.50       0.00     104.85     59.11     27.10
Active        Closed
Projects       Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):        67.49         486.75          554.24
of which has been repaid:        0.00          37.63           37.63
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:       184.50         433.93          618.43
Amount sold:         0.00          10.46           10.46
of which repaid:        0.00          10.46          10.46
Total Undisbursed:       104.85           0.00         104.85
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-60-



BENIN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Mar-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1991                AEF SOBEP                      0.00    0.06     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06      0.00    0.00
1991/93/95          AEF BOAB                       0.00    0.31     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31      0.00    0.00
1994                Equipbail                      0.13    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.13    0.00       0.10    0.00
Total Portfolio:         0.13     0.37    0.10    0.00    0.13    0.37      0.10    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
-61-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BENIN: First Municipal Adjustment Project
Sub-                                                   1 0/1/98
POVERTY and SOCtAL                                              Saharan      Low-
Benin     Arrka   inconw        Development dlamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                           5.8       614      2,048                  Life expectancy
GNP Der capita (Atlas method, USS)                       380        500        350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                          2.2       309        722                        T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                            2.9        2.7       21
Labor force (%)                                           2.6        2.6       2.3      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                   capita               ,        enrollment
Povertv (% of Population below national poverty line)     33
Urban pDoulation (% of total population)                  40         32         28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          55         52         59                         1
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                  84         90         78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                24                    61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (14 ofpopulation)                    50         44         71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      63         43         47
Gross Primary enrollment (XD of school-rge population)    72         75         91             Benin       Low-income group
Male                                                    92         82        1 0
Female                                                  52         67         81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     19B6       1996       1997
Economic ratlos,
GDP (USS billions)                             0.70       1 3        2,2       2.1
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                  16.7      13.5       17.1      17.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP              18.9      28.5       25.2      24.7                      Trade
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                      -0.4      2.9        8.7       9.9
Gross national savings/GDP                      3.4       6 9       12.5      13.3
Current account balance/GDP                   -18.1      -6.5       -4.6      -4 5      D       i
Interest pavments/GDP                           0.1       1.6        0.7       018      Doesc                         Investment
Total debtGDP                                   5.3      70.9       72.2      69.8      Savings              /        I
Total debt service/exports                      2.9      13.4        7.0       9.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                           47.8
Present value of debt/exports                                      168.6
Indebtedness
1976-86  198747       1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    4.5      3.8       5.6        53        5.4       --Peninr            Low-income group
GNP per capita                         1.2      0.8       3.5        2.4       2.5
ExDorts of qoods and services          3.8      0.0      16.9       6.2        75
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996       1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(14 of GDP?                                                                             75
Agriculture                                    33.2      33.7       40.1      41.0
Industrv                                       12.9      12.9       14.6      14.8
Manufacturinq                                  9.2      7.2        8.8        8.8      2                                    -
Services                                       53.9      53 4       45.3      44.2      2
Private consumption                            91 8      81 8       80.6      79.7      so
General qovernment consumption                  86       15.3       10.7      10.5                -     GDI       e  GDP
Imports of goods and services                  36 0      39.0       33.6      32.6
197646  1987-97        1996       1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                     3.9       5.2        7.3       4 8      407
Industry                                        7 4       41         4.6       3,9      20
Manufacturinq                                 3 5       6 9        7.4        4.2
Services                                        41        1.3        4.1       4.1      '         0                   Dc   97
92    9a30
Pnvate consumption                              2.5       3.9        4.1       3.7    n20
General oiovemment consumption                  4.8       1 4        2.0       4 3
Gross domestic investment                       2,8       4.8       -3.5      10.3       o
Imports of goods and services                   0.2       0.3        2.1       2.8             -Exports           0  Imports
Gross national product                          4.2       3.8        6.5       5.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds showfour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomdlete.
-62-



Benin
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                            so
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..        4.7       3.8    40 -
Implicit GDP deflator                          14.0     -3.6        6.7       4.8     20 ;
Governmentfinance                                                                     10-
(/0 of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0o_
Cunrentrevenue                                   ..    13.2        17.0      15.7             92    93    54   95    96    97
Current budget balance                           ..    11.6         3.9       3.6              -     GDP deflator    t  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    11.6        -2.5      -3.1                                            .
TRADE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ mitlons)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..      309       422       397      7so
Cotton                                          ..      33        210       193
Crude oil                                      ..       62         10         9
Manufactures                                   ..        0          0         0     Soo
Total imports (cif)                              ..      473       665       627
Food                                                   149        116       110     250 1| 111
Fuel and energy                                 ..      34         74        70
Capital goods10                                                   23        21          
Export pnce index (1995-100)                     ..       31        90        91           SI   52   53   94   55   Os   97
ImportPriceindex(1995=100)                                50       105        97               r Exports     *aImports
Terms of trade (1995= 100)                       ..       61        86        95
BALANCE ofPAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1976      1986      1996      1997      current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  117      380        558       529       9
Imports of goods and services                  270       522       743       698
Resource balance                               -153     -141      -186       -169      2
Net income                                       0       -26       -32        -30
Net current transfers                                   -2        -32        ;3       4
Current account balance                        -126      -87       -103       -96
Financing items (net)                          131        86        162       109
Changes in net reserves                          -5        1        40        -13
Me.fmo:
Reserves including qold (US$ millions)          19         8       268       212
Conversion rate (DEC, locaIAJS$)              239.0    346.3      511.6     583.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(fUS$ millions)  .                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1S97 (US$ mitllions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            107      947      1,595     1,491
IBRD                                           0         0         0         0                   G: 12B
IDA                                           25       158       520       510
Total debt service                               4        62         44        54
IBRD                                           0         0         0         0
IDA                                            0        2          7         7
E: 442
Composition of net resource flows
Officialgrants                                17        41       125       115
Official creditors                            23       61         84        67
Private creditors                              1       -18         0          0
Foreign direct investment                      3         1         2         3                                    C:89
Portfolio equity                               0         0         0          0    |D:3222
World Bank program
Commitments                                    9         2        40          0     A- IBRO                        E- Bilaterai
Disbursements                                  6        27        41        20      B -IDA    D - Other muitilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           0         0         3         4     |C-IMF                         G- Short-term
Net flows                                      6        26        37        16
Interest payments                              0         1         4         4
Net transfers                                  6        25        34         12
Development Economics                                                                                                    10/1/98
-63-



Additional
Annex No.: 11
.Project Financial Management System
Assessment of the Financial Management System
1.    The Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) requires that the Borrower's implementing
agency(ies) establish and maintain sound financial monitoring and reporting systems to support LACI's
simplified disbursement procedures. During project preparation, the financial management systems of the
two implementing agencies, SERHAU-SEM and AGETUR, were analyzed by a certified financial
specialist from World Bank Headquarters and a financial analyst of the Resident Mission. The mission
reviewed the computerized systems for financial administration and accounting of the two agencies, staffing
of the fmancial management and accounting units, internal audit systems. The main conclusions of the
assessment team are as follows: (i) AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM accounting staff are qualified, although
a high tumover of financial managers has been noticed at SERHAU-SEM; (ii) the accounting and financial
management systems of both agencies are operational and based on internationally accepted accounting
principles satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) accounting software and hardware have been audited and found to
be Y2K compliant (i.e. meet the requirements to avoid the Year 2000 problem).
2.    The mission found the implementing agencies'accounting and financial management system to be
satisfactory. The accounting systems of the agencies are based on the national accounting system, which
has been deemed acceptable to the Bank. The agencies have experience in administering the Urban
Rehabilitation and Management Project and the Project Preparation Facility for preparation of the
operation under consideration, in addition to projects of other donors. For these operations they have
routinely issued financial statements and operational balance sheets which have been satisfactory to the
Bank.
3-.    Each agency follows an accounting procedures manual. The agencies maintain separate and
well-structured finance and management departnents. These departments are adequately staffed by trained
and professional personnel, although SERHAU-SEM suffers from substantial staff turnover.
4.    Both agencies, particularly AGETUR, expressed interest in LACI. Since their financial
management systems are currently satisfactory, it is recommended that LACI be implemented gradually.
To this end, AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM have agreed to undertake the following actions during the first
year of the project: (a) upgrade their accounting system to provide required information for the Project
Management Reports (PMRs); (b) set up a computerized contract/procurement management system to
facilitate LACI implementation; (c) revise financial and procurement procedure manuals to incorporate
LACI requirements; (d) train procurement and financial staff on the upgraded financial management
system and PMR reporting scheme; and (e) initiate the PMR reporting system during the last six months of
the first year prior to launching a full LACIIPMR system at the beginning of the second year.At the end of
the first year, the experience will be analyzed to determine an action plan to implement needed
improvements in the existing computer system to automate PMR production.
5.    At the end of the first year of project implementation, the financial management, accounting and
procurement processing systems of both agencies, staffing of relevant departments and the quality and
timeliness of reports generated will be reviewed and analyzed. On the basis of this review, a decision will
be taken and action plan drawn up for full LACI implementation.
-64-



Financial Reporting
6.    Accounting Accounting and internal control systems are set out in detail in the financial
procedures of the Project Implementation Manual and are satisfactory for providing reasonable assurances
that accounts are properly recorded and resources safeguarded. Accounting systems for the implementing
agencies will be computerized, using [   ] software. The Chart of Accounts for the project is based on the
National Chart of Accounts and in conformity with the International Accounting Standard satisfactory to
IDA.
7.    Financial Reporting. The implementing agencies will prepare quarterly activity reports together
with quarterly fmancial reports of each activity, and will submit the reports for ISC and IDA review and
discussion. The annual financial statements of the project will include at least a statement of sources and
uses of funds, a statement of reconciliation of the Special Accounts and Project Account, and a balance
sheet.
Auditing
8.    The financial statement of the project will be audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA.
The auditor will provide an opinion on:
 the adequacy of the accounting and internal control systems;
* the financial management system;
* project financial statements;
- Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures;
i the Project Account
Project Management Reports
9.    In accordance with the Bank's LACI initiative, disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) rather than on the basis of individual invoices or SOEs, on
projects in which sound fiacial management, procurement and output monitoring systems are in place.
As noted above, the implementing agencies are to apply LACI gradually. PMR procedures will be
implemented progressively during the first year of project implementation and are to be evaluated at the end
of this period to ensure that the systems established are operating smoothly. The monitoring and evaluation
process will include output monitoring reports which are consistent with PMR requirements.
10.   The financial, procurement and output monitoring systems will be reviewed as part of the first year
review, to assess whether it will be appropriate to move to fill PMR-based disbursement at that time.
-65-



Additional
Annex No.: 12
ibLetter of Sector Policy
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT, HABITAT, AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
MINISTRY OF INTERIOR, SECURITY, AND LAND ADM[NISTRATION
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY ON MANAGEMENT OF URBAN SERVICES IN
COTONOU, PARAKOU, AND PORTO-NOVO
1.    The Government of Benin wishes to enable the governments of cities having special status
to respond rapidly to the expectations created by the impending decentralization process and is
aware of the need to optimize the use of their resources. It has therefore decided to launch a
special effort with the cities of Cotonou, Parakou, and Porto-Novo aimed at ensuring sustainable
improvement of their urban services.
2.    The three main objectives are to: (1) increase the productivity of expenditures on urban
services so that they reach more residents - particularly in the poorest districts - and are
sustainable; (2) secure additional resources in order to provide the population with more basic
services of higher quality; and (3) introduce greater transparency in the management of local
public affairs for the benefit of local taxpayers, on the one hand, and government departments and
local public authorities, on the other hand.
3.    The Government hereby undertakes to support this effort by adopting any provisions (or
derogations) required in order to achieve these objectives, and may, should the need arise, align
its acticns with the Land Administration Reform Act.
A.    INCREASED RESOURCES FOR SERVICES
4.    In order to increase the volume of resources actually available to the CUs and ensure that
their expenditures are earmarked primarily for services for their inhabitants, the Government will
adopt and arrange the implementation of measures ensuring that (1) local taxes which it is
responsible for levying and collecting are levied and collected expeditiously and to an extent
-66-



reflecting the estimated tax potential of the three cities; (2) this revenue and the portion of the
road tax returned to the CUs are actually available for disbursement and are predictable from year
to year; (3) the expenditures of the CUs on goods, services, and capital investments which do not
yield services directly are kept to a minimum; and (4) the CUs increase the revenue for which they
are directly responsible.
5.    Increasing local tax revenues. The tax authorities will continue and conclude their
assessment of how best to increase revenues on a sustainable basis from the unified property tax
(TFU) and the unified professional tax (TPU), as well as fees for business and other licenses. The
CUs will be very involved in the assessment process, the aim being to make them closer and more
effective tax collection partners of the tax authorities. The Government will also ensure that the
resources it collects on behalf of local authorities are returned to them in full.
6.    The provisions which the parties will adopt and implement jointly once this assessment has
been completed should result, first, in the case of the TFU, in a simpler basis and calculation
method; higher tax revenues from unimproved property; incentives, revised penalties for
nonpayment, the gradual introduction of the requirement that in all petitions to the administrative
authorities, proof be presented that the applicant has no outstanding tax liabilities, identification of
major unpaid tax accounts, and a focus on their collection. Second, in the case of the TPU, tax
bases should be aligned more directly with the various tax base profiles (activities) and the
respective tax bases for business license and the TPU should be defined clearly. Third, in the case
of both the TFU and the TPU, rates should be revised so that they at least counterbalance the
impact of inflation, the respective responsibilities of the CUs and the tax authorities should be
reviewed, the incentive system applicable to tax authority agents should be revised (incentives
should vary depending on results achieved, and a minimum requirement should be established),
the feasibility of providing incentives to CU agents should be examined, and the feasibility of
involving private operators in managing local tax systems should be explored.
These provisions will be spelled out in operational service agreements between the CUs
and the State Tax and Property Authority.
7.    The CUs will contribute to this exercise by providing from the Urban Land Register
meaningful data on occupancy, ownership of real property, and activities.
8.    The assessment will also be expanded to include more far-reaching reforms, including the
redistribution of tax revenues and other transfers between CUs and the Government and the
introduction of new taxes, including a development fee.
9.    Increasing the CUs' own resources. The CUs undertake to increase the volume of
non-tax resources for which they are directly responsible. They will make every effort to reduce
the collection costs pertaining thereto, limit losses, particularly those relating to services they
provide on force account, and increase income from various activities to which inadequate
attention has been paid, such as transport and the informal sector.
10.   The CUs will study and gradually establish procedures for delegating management. of
-67-



commercial facilities and collection of certain taxes to outside operators, who will be paid on the
basis of their performance. The CUs will establish an effective mechanism for estimating and
monitoring revenue, expenditures, and goods consumed in connection with activities carried out
on force account. They will also clarify arrangements for the collection, control, and monitoring
of their own resources, with particular attention to those managed by several units.
11.   The Government will assist the CUs by providing any necessary expertise, training, advice,
and assistance. Regulations will also be adopted to make the management of the CUs' own
resources more transparent and reduce recourse to extra-budgetary revenue. Revenue and
expenditures generated by services provided on force account will be presented separately, in the
form of an annex to the budget and the administrative account. Appropriations for personal
services will be limited to services not offered by private operators. Financial resources approved
by the supervisory authorities of the CUs for inclusion in the budget shall be made available to the
CUs.
12.   Reducing structural expenses.  Structural expenses include operating expenses,
investment expenditure for administrative buildings, and expenses relating to purchases of vehicles
and equipment for services the CUs provide on force account. The CUs will gradually reduce
expenditures for services they provide on force account as those services are privatized. They
will establish plans to stabilize and later reduce the number of permanent and temporary staff
involved in project execution. They will assume increasing control over other structural expenses,
including those for consumables and transportation. Ultimately - in 2001 at the latest - structural
expenses must not exceed 30 percent of each CU's overall budget.
13.   The Government will help the CUs reduce their structural expenses by assuming
responsibility for paying agents employed by other state units and for contributions paid to the
departments. It will also assist in defraying staff reduction costs. The tax revenue deduction (the
administrative cost of taxes) will be available only to operational units which deal with the
Ministry of Finance. Looking ahead to establishment of the future Inter-Community Solidarity
Fund envisaged by the Community Finance Act, assistance which the CUs provide to poor
communities will be reorganized and reduced.
B.   MORE PRODUCTIVE SERVICE EXPENDITURES
14.   Efforts will be made throughout the service management process to improve the
effectiveness of the services the CUs provide to their inhabitants. Improvements will include the
following:
(1)    CU expenditures will be presented in a manner that will enable the budget to serve
as a tool for developing and managing services and infrastructures. Built property and
infrastructure for which the cities are responsible will be listed, and annual infrastructure
maintenance and investment programs will be annexed to the budget, which will present all
activities (by funding source) relating to city-owned property.
-68-



(2)     Management procedures will evolve, the objective being a closer partnership
between the public and private sectors. This will be achieved through increased recourse to
delegated contract management for infrastructure works and delegated management
arrangements for local public services, especially maintenance, which is critical if service
levels are to prove sustainable.
(3)     Project feasibility will receive greater attention. The aim is to ensure project
viability by conducting a comparative assessment of project impact on economic and social
development and more carefully anticipating difficulties or risks of implementation,
commissioning, or operation.
(4)     Operations will be more carefully planned by striving for consensus and through
the contractualization of programs, an indication that local governments are attaching
greater importance to the value of grassroots initiatives.
(5)     The implementation of infrastructure investment and maintenance programs will be
subject to more rigorous financial and technical monitoring in order to measure their
effectiveness and, where necessary, make corrections in order to make optimum use of the
resources allocated to them.
(6)     The three CUs in question will be accorded greater managerial independence. This
will enable their leaders to organize tasks, encourage agents providing services and reward
them for their know-how, award public works and service contracts, hold contests seeking
ideas and architectural proposals for large projects, support district initiatives and projects,
and keep their citizens informed of their management efforts, all without any need for prior
approval by the regulatory authorities. This approach will ensure the efficient and prompt
implementation of the provisions of this declaration.
(7)     Works programs emphasizing rehabilitation of basic local infrastructure, roads, and
sanitation will be adopted in order to facilitate significant improvement in the urban
environment and in services available to communities and economic operators.
15.   Expenditure programming, budgeting, and implementation.  In the interests of
properly aligning operating expenditures for infrastructure maintenance with maintenance
investment costs, the Government will require the three cities to annex to their budgets: (i) an
inventory of city-owned built property and infrastructure they are required to maintain, (ii)
itemized expenditures for such maintenance, and (iii) the building and infrastructure investment
program for the year listing all funding sources, including external resources. The objective is to
align the budget with the Government's PIP with respect to external financing.
16.   The Government will support this effort by requiring the CUs to prepare dedicated
maintenance budgets.  All corresponding expenditures, which are mandatory under the
Community Finance Act, will be included in the budget under "ordinary expenses." Appropriate
procedures for programming maintenance works will be developed and the training required for
their implementation will be arranged. A monthly advance from the CUs' revenue will be set
-69-



aside so that maintenance work can be scheduled on a more regular basis. Various options for
delegating management responsibilities for commercial and community facilities to private
operators (including affermage and concession contracts) will be considered and implemented.
17.  In the case of investments, the procedures for the Multi-Year Development and
Investment Plan will be aligned with those of the Government's PIP. A triennial investment and
maintenance program, including a priority one-year program, will be introduced. Both programs
will be annexed to the CUs' budgets, and budget approval by the supervisory authorities will be
contingent on the programs. The priority program will include separate maintenance and
investment programs, the latter comprising individual, carefully localized operations previously
determined to be feasible.
18.   In order to win broader agreement on the operations selected by the CUs, expenditures for
works, including those to be constructed on force account, will be programmed and budgeted as
distinct operations. By identifying operations in this manner at the outset, it will be easier to
ensure their consistency with initiatives undertaken by other public and private actors. This will
also facilitate the annual evaluation of the CUs' activities and the dissemination of information
from their constituents on the use of public funds by local public authorities.
19.   The Government will adopt regulations to systematize the practice of programming new
works and maintenance activities, make such programming a regular component of the budget
preparation process, and encourage the CUs to reduce appropriations for non-programmed
operations, particularly services provided to individuals on force account. Such appropriations
must be reduced to less than 5 percent of the CUs' budgets starting in 2000.
20.   For the benefit of their inhabitants, wherever possible the CUs will give preference to
direct or delegated management contracts for the execution of works and provision of services for
which it is responsible, as opposed to providing them on force account. By turning to the private
sector, the cities will be in a position to manage simultaneously a higher volume of works or
services than would be the case if they were performing them on force account, thereby bringing
the added benefits of greater transparency and lower costs. This approach will also enable them
to promote private sector development, create jobs, and reduce urban poverty by fostering wider,
more consistent, and sustainable recourse to local purchasing.
21.   In order to ensure that the facilities and works they provide are properly maintained over
time, the CUs will adopt management procedures conducive to rapid implementation and
economical and sustainable operation. Each year they will plan and include appropriations in the
budget for the maintenance of infrastructure for which they are responsible and will ensure
periodic monitoring of actual service levels with a view to adopting or arranging for the adoption
of measures required to minimize the risk of interruption. Applying the most appropriate methods
and inviting competition, they will delegate the management of economic and socio-cultural
infrastructure to the private commercial or voluntary sectors.
22.   The Government will lay the necessary groundwork for this process. To that end, it will
establish and ensure the implementation of simplified procurement procedures by the CUs and will
-70-



reduce delays in securing payment for firms that build works and provide services on behalf of
local public authorities. The State will ensure that priority is given to the adoption of the draft
law on delegated contract management for public works. It will establish delegated contract
management arrangements ensuring that future municipal prerogatives are taken more fully into
account. It will take steps to reduce gradually the number of services traditionally under its
control. The objective will be for local communities to cease their involvement in managing
works execution by the year 2000. Another objective will be for the cities to cease providing
personal services that can be turned over to the private sector, such as emptying septic tanks and
transporting the deceased. By 2001 at the latest, all personal services previously performed on
force account will be the responsibility of private operators with a regulated competitive
environment.
23.   The powers envisaged in the Act on the Organization of Communities with Special Status
and the management options under which their units may operate will be spelled out and refined in
keeping with the size and capabilities of the CUs.
24.   The CUs of the three cities will conduct a systematic assessment of the technical,
economic, and social feasibility of their investment programs prior to launching them. This will
enable them more readily to anticipate and avoid delays placing facilities and works in service and
subsequent operating problems. Comparative assessments of project feasibility will also enable
the CUs to streamline the way they respond - and to respond more equitably -- to the needs of
users, communities, individuals, and the authorities.
25.   The feasibility study will focus on all matters affecting the technical and financial viability
of project implementation and operation, including investment modalities; management and
remuneration of services; recurrent costs; social, economic, financial, and environmental impacts;
and alternative solutions. Where possible, the CUs will do whatever is necessary to involve
communities and district associations in defining, financing, and managing projects to be carried
out at the district level,
26.   The Government, for its part, will help the CUJs develop the capacity to provide better
guidance for the preparation of requests and projects to community groups, be they district
committees whose establishment will be promoted, or user associations tapping shared facilities
and public services.
27.   To facilitate the implementation of this crucial phase of the programming process, the
Government will ensure the development of simple, rapid, and clear criteria for evaluating project
feasibility in the various sectors (infrastructure and services). The dissemination and use of these
methods will be promoted through manuals to be developed under the direction of the
Government's technical services and made available to the CUs. Consideration will also be given
to providing training and, as needed, advisory services.
28.   The Government will also encourage and facilitate the use of external audits and advice in
assessing the validity and feasibility of investment projects budgeted by the CUs and in evaluating
the level of services the CUs provide to their constituents in the three cities, This mandate will be
-71-



entrusted to an independent technical entity capable of directly helping the CUs complete their
project feasibility studies and conducting surveys and opinion polls to measure project credibility
with the public.
29.   The objective is to make feasibility studies an integral part of the preparation phase of
investment projects carried out by the CUs as from the year 2000.
30.   The CUs will receive support for their programming and budgeting efforts in the forn of
methodological guides, training, and advisory services. A number of incentives or restrictions will
also be examined, including government funding for priority program expenditures, publication
and standardization of tax revenues and road taxes, limitations on unscheduled investment and
maintenance expenditures, and the like.
31.   Compliance vith these principles for budget presentation, programming, and management
will be a prerequisite for approval of the budget for the year 2000, and all the provisions must be
met for fiscal year 2001.
32.   Monitoring of implementation of expenditures. The CUs will establish a mechanism
for monitoring implementation of their expenditures that will make it possible to measure the
increase in their level of service productivity. This monitoring, which will be additional to existing
budget implementation monitoring, will entail recording - for every order issued by the CU or for
every advance payment - the identifiers needed to determine how well the CUs have managed
operations, taking into account the service provided, costs, time frame, and locality.
33.   The Government will help the CUs design and implement this mechanism. It will draw up
a list of service expenditures as well as of the various performance indicators for assessing CU
management. To encourage competition among the cities, these indicators could be publicized
and even used as incentives for securing additional government support for the most efficient
CUs.
34.   The system for monitoring expenditures will be in place as from the start of fiscal year
2000.
35.   Internal organization and motivation of staff. The Government will help the CUs
enable their staff to work more efficiently by arranging - in collaboration with the CUs - the
establishment and implementation of an awareness campaign focusing on organization of work
and staff motivation.
36.   Thematic seminars, functional audits, and "quality workshops" for certain key services
(including maintenance of dirt roads, garbage and wastewater disposal, and personal services) will
increase the awareness of CU agents of their respective roles and will enable them to formulate
measurable objectives, evaluation criteria, and concrete proposals for improving their organization
and its procedures.
37.   Manuals defining methods and guidelines for programming operating and investment
-72-



expenditures and managing and monitoring key public services will be prepared in cooperation
with the relevant technical units. These manuals will be treated as directives from the supervisory
authorities. Performance incentive systems for public service staff will also be considered and
introduced in order to give the CUs greater latitude in motivating their personnel.
38.   The appropriate arrangements will be made and the systems should be in place during
1999, and will in any event be implemented by the time the urban sector adjustment project is
launched.
C.   IMPLEMENTATION
39.  In order to attain these objectives, the Government has decided to implement an
adjustment program for the cities of Cotonou, Parakou, and Porto Novo. The commitments
contained in this letter of sector policy will be implemented by the CUs and the relevant central
government entities within the framework of this program. The Govement will seek funding for
the program from IDA and other partners in the donor community.
40.   The program will have a twofold objective: to meet the most pressing basic infrastructure
needs of the three cities and to strengthen the capacity of the CUs to provide their inhabitants
with basic urban services. It will be fmanced in two stages, and funding will be contingent on
compliance with the reciprocal commitments undertaken by the CUs and the Govermment, as
represented by the various entities involved.
41.   These commitments will be reproduced in city-specific "operational service agreements"
between the cities concerned (current CUs) and the Government. The State 's commitments will
focus on financing infrastructure programs and on implementing the measures and actions in
support of the CUs as set out in this letter of sector policy. The support that will be needed to
achieve the desired results with respect to the management of urban services will be proposed
annually to the Interministerial Program Monitoring Committee. The commitments of the CUs
will be expressed as results to be achieved in connection with the management of services, and
will be based on performance indicators and city-specific values and objectives.
42.   The initial phase of the project will include a portion of the planned priority infrastructure
as well as government support to strengthen management capacity in the CUs. The second phase
will cover a range of infrastructure works; the exact number of works and their content will
depend in each city on the actual achievements of the CUs with respect to the management of
services at the end of the initial phase.
43.   The measures described above will be adopted by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Environment, Habitat, and Urban Development, tule Ministry of Interior, Security, and Land
Administration, and the CUs.
-73-



MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT, HABrrAT,   MINISTRY OF INTERIOR, SECURITY, AND
AND ULRBAN DEVELOPfMEiNT                  LAND ADMINISTRATION
Adilp&diou S. AKINDES                      Daniel TAWEMA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Abdoulave BIO TCHANE
Note: Original Letter of Sector Policy (in french) is found at Annex 12 (a)
-74-



Annex 12(a)
REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN
MINISTERE DE L'ENVIRONNENENT, DE L'HABITAT ET DE L'URBANSME
MINISTERE DE L'INTERIEUR DE LA SECURITE ET DE L'ADINIMSTRATION
TERRITORIALE
.MNIISTERE DES FINANCES
PROGRAMMLE D'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR URBAIN (P.A.S.U)
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE GESTION DES SERVICES URBAINS
DE COTONOU, PARAKOU ET PORTO-NOVO
Approuvee par le Conseil des Ministres en sa seance du 10 Mars 1999
Communication n287/99
1. Le Gouvernement du Benin, soucieux de permettre a I'administration des villes a statut
particulier de repondre rapidement aux attentes generees par la decentralisation prochaine, et
conscient de la necessite d'optimiser l'emploi de leurs ressources, a decide d'engager avec les
Villes de Cotonou, Parakou et Porto-Novo un effort particulier pour arneliorer durablement les
services rendus A leurs populations.
2. Cet effort poursuivra trois objectifs principaux : (1) ameliorer la productivit: des depenses
consacrees aux services, pour que ceux-ci desservent un plus grand nombre d'habitants, en
particulier dans les quartiers les plus defavorises, et de facon durable; (2) degager des ressources
suppilmentaires permettant d'augmenter l'offre et la qualite des services de base a la population
et (3) amdliorer la transparence en mati&re de gestion des affaires publiques locales, vis A vis des
contribuables locaux, d'une part, et entre les administrations de I'Etat et les collectivites
publiques locales concernees, d'autre part.
3. Par cette declaration, l'Etat s'engage A soutenir cet effort en prenant les dispositions (et le cas
ech6ant, les derogations) necessaires pour atteindre ces objectifs en anticipant. si necessaire sur
la mise en ceuvre de la loi sur la reforme de l'Administration Territoriale.
-75-



A,e DES ESOURCES ACCRUES POUR LES SERVICES
4, Afin d'augmenter le volume des ressources effectivement disponibles pour les CU et pour que
[es depenses de ces derniires soient plus largement consacrees aux services a la population, I'Etat
prendra et fera appliquer les dispositions necessaires pour que: (1) les impots locaux dont il a la
responsabil'e en matiere d'emissions et de recouvrement, soient emis et recouvres de faqon
diligente, ponctuelle, et a un niveau qui se rapproche du potentiel fiscal estume des trois villes, (2)
ces ressources ainsi que la part de la taxe de voirie revenant aux dites circonscriptions soient
effectivement disponibles en tresorerie et previsibles d'une annee a I'autre , (3) les depenses de
consommation, de prestation et d'investissement des CU non directement productrices de services
soient limnit6es ; (4) les CU augmentent les recettes dont elles ont la responsabilite directe.
5. Accroitre le produit des impdts locaux. La reflexion engagee par l'administration fiscale pour
ameliorer durablemnent le rendement de la TFU et de la TPU sera poursuivie et finalisee. II en sera
de rnmee pour les patentes et les licences. Les Circonscriptions Urbaines seront etroitement
associees a cette retlexion afin de rendre leur collaboration avec l'adniinistration fiscale pour la
collecte de ces imp6ts plus etroite et plus efficace. Par ailleurs, le gouvernement fera en sorte que
les ressources collect6es par ses services pour le compte des collectivites publiques locales leur
soient intgrallement reversees.
6. Les dispositions qui seront adoptees et mises en ceuvre d'un comnmun accord entre les parties a
17issue de cette reflexion devront concourir: (1) pour la TFU: a une simplification des bases et du
mod3e de calcul a une amelioration du recouvrement sur le foncier non bati ; a la mise en place de
mesures incitatives .  la revision des sanctions en cas de defaut de paiement, a l'introduction
progressive d'un quitus fiscal a produire a l'occasion de toute demarche administrative ; a
l'identification des plus grosses cotes impayees et la concentration des actions en recouvrement sur
ces dernieres; (2) pour la TPU: a la definition de bases mieux adaptees aux diff6rents profils de
ma:ieres imposables (activit6s) ; a une delimitation claire des assiettes respectives de la patente et
de la TPU,  (3) pour les deux imp6ts (TFU et TPU): a une revision des taux permettant au moins
de contrebalancer les effets de l'inflation ; a une revision des responsabilites et des charges
respectives des Circonscriptions Urbaines et de l'administration fiscale   a une r6vision des
modalit6s d'interessement des acents de l'administration fiscale (modulation en fonction des
r6sultats et minimum  exigible); a evaluer la faisabilite d'un interessement des agents des
Circonscriptions Urbaines  a evaluer la faisabilit6 de la mobilisation d'operateurs prives dans la
aestion de la fiscalite locale.
Ces dispositions seront precisees dans les protocoles d'accord liant les Circonscriptions
Urbaines et la Direction Generale des Impots et des Domaines.
70 Les Circonscriptions Urlbaines contribueront a cet effort et alimenteront ces reflexions en
produisant, a partir des donnees du Registre Foncier Urbain, les donnees utiles sur l'occupation, la
propri6t6 immobiliere et les activites.
POL I CONTPLAT - 01/0 3/99             -76-



8.  La reflexion sera egalement e1argie pour envisager des reforrnes plus radicales, telles qu'une
repartition differente des produits fiscaux et des autres transferts entre !es Circonscriptions
Urbaines et l'Etat, et l'instauration d'autres types de contribution, notamment d'une taxe
d'equipement.
9. Accroitre les ressources propres. Les Circonscnrption, Urbaines s'engagent a ameliorer les
differentes ressources non fiscales dont elles ont la responsabilite directe. Elles prendront toutes
les dispositions utiles pour reduire les coCits de collecte de ces recettes, pour en limiter les pertes,
notamrnent celles des recettes de services rendus en regie, et pour augmenter le produit de
certains gisements insuffisamment exploites, notamment les activites de transport et de commerce
dans le secteur de leconomie populaire.
10. Elles etudieront et mettront en ceuvre progressivement des svstemes de dlegation de ia
gestion des equipements marchands et de la collecte de certaines taxes a des operateurs externes
remuneres en fonction de leurs performances. Elles mettront en place un dispositif efficient de
prevision et de suivi des recettes, des d6penses et de l'utilisation de materiel generees par les
activites exercees en regie. Elles clarifieront l'oroanisation de la collecte, du contr6le et du suivi de
leurs ressources propres, en accordant une attention particuliere a celles dont la gestion implique
plusieurs services.
11. L'Etat appuiera leur effort en prenant en charge les expertises necessaires, la formation, et en
assurant une  fonction  de conseil et d'assistance  aux  CU. II comportera  4galement la
reglementation dans le but de rendre plus transparente la gestion des ressources propres et de
r6duire les pratiques de recettes hors budget les recettes et depenses generees par les actiMites de
service en regie feront l'objet d'une presentation particuliere annexee au budget et au compte
adrninistratif  les competences de services aux particuliers seront limitees aux services pour
lesquels il n'existe pas d'offie prive e, les ressources fiscales inscrites au budget avant fait l'objet
d'une approbation par l'autorite de tutelle des CU devront etre rendues disponibles.
12. Reduire les depenses de structure. Les depenses de structure concernent les depenses de
fonctionnement et de travaux d'investissements sur les batiments administratifs et d'achat de
vehicules et d'engins pour les serices en regie. Les Circonscriptions Urbaines reduiront
progressivement les depenses afferentes aux services en regie, au fir et A mesure de leur
privatisation. Elles mettront en place des plans de stabilisation puis de reduction de leurs effectifs
de personnel d'ex6cution permanents et occasionnels. Elles exerceront un controle accru sur les
autres depenses de structure. notamment celles relatives aux consommables et au transport. A
terme, et au plus tard en l'an 2001, les depenses de structure ne devront pas depasser (30'0) du
budget total de chaque CU.
13. L'Etat les aidera a limiter leurs depenses de structure en prenant en charge les remunerations
d'agents employes par d'autres administrations de l'Etat ainsi que les contributions versees aux
departements. Les beneficiaires du prelevement sur les recettes fiscales (coat administratif des
imp6ts) seront limites aux services operationnels en la matiere du Ministere des Finances. Les
aides versees par les Circonscriptions Urbaines aux communes defavorisees seront reorganisees et
allegees, en prevision de la mise en place du futur Fonds de Solidarite Intercommunal pr6vu par la
loi portant regime financier des communes.
L POL / CONTRAT - 18103199              -77-



B.   DES DEPENSES DE SERVICE PLUS PRODUCTIVES
14. Les ameliorations de i'efficacite des services rendus par les Circonscriptions Urbaines a leurs
populations seront recherchees aux differents stades de la uestion de ces services. Ces
ameliorations porteront notamment sur:
(1)    une presentation  des depenses des CU  qui fasse du budget un outil de
developpement et de gestion des services et des infrastructures, par l'inventaire du
patrimoine bati et des infrastructures a la charge des Villes, et par des programmes
d'entretien et d'investissement annuels dans les infrastructures qui soient annexes au budget
et fasse etat de l'ensemble des interventions (par source de financement) portant sur le
patrimoine a la charge des Villes.
(2)    une evolution des modes de gestion dans le sens d'un partenariat accru entre les
secteurs publics et prives, par un recours plus large a la ladlgation de la maitrise d'ouvrage
des travaux d'infrastructure et a des modes de gestion deleues des serVices publics
locaux, en particulier en matiere d'entretien, condition du maintien durable de leur niveau
de service;
(3)    une meilleure evaluation de la faisabilite des projets, permettant d'assurer leur
viabilite grace a une evaluation comparative des impacts de ces projets sur le
developpement economique et social, a une meilleure anticipation des difficultes ou des
risques impliques dans leur mise en cxuvre, dans leur mise en service ou dans leur
fonctionnement,
(4)    une meilleure programmation des operations, par un recours plus large a la
concertation et a la contractualisation des programmes gage d'une meilleure prise en
compte par la collectivite publique des initiatives emanant des communautes de base;
(5)    un suivi financier et technique plus rigoureux de lFex&cution des programmes
d'investissement dans les infrastructures et d'entretien de ces infrastructures de facon a
mesurer leur efficacite et apporter, si necessaire, les mesures correctes permnettant
d'optimiser l'utilisation des ressources qui leur sont consacrees;
*(6)    une plus grande autonomie  de gestion  des trois Circonscriptions Urbaines
concernees permettant a leurs Chefs d'organiser les taches, de promouvoir et recompenser
le savoir-faire des agients qui concourent a la foumiture des differents services rendus, de
passer des marches publics de services et de travaux, de lancer des concours d'id6es et
d'architecture pour les projets les plus significatifs, d'appuyer les initiatives et les projets de
quartiers, de rendre compte de leur gestion aux administres. sans un contr6le a priori de
leur adrministration de tutelle, ceci afin d'assurer la mise en ceuvTe effective et rapide des
resolutions de la presente declaration;
(7) la mise en ceuve de programmes de travaux portant en priorite sur la rehabilitation de
l'infrastructure locale de base, de la voirie et de l'assainissement, pour armeliorer de
maniere si-nificative l'enxironnement urbain, l'offre de services aux populations, et aux
operateurs econoriques.
L POL / CONTRAT - 01/03199             -78-



15. Programmation, budgetisation et execution des depenses. Pour faciliter la mise en rapport
et l'adequation des depenses de fonctionnement destinees ai 'entretien des infrastructures avec les
charges d'entretien generees par l'investissement, l'Etat exigera des trois Villes, qu'elles presentent,
en annexe de leurs budgets: (i) un inventaire du patrimoine en batiments et en infrastructures
qu'elles ont a entretenir, (ii) un detail des depenses qui seront consacrees a cet entretien, et (iii) le
programme d'investissements dans les batiments et les infrastructures qui sera realise au cours de
l'annee, incluant toutes sources de financement, y compris exterieures, impliquant une mise en
relation avec le PIP Etat sur financement exterieur.
16. L'Etat appuiera cet effort en instaurant l'obligation pour les Circonscriptions Urbaines d'etablir
des programmes specifiques d'entretien. Les depenses correspondantes, obligatoires aux termes de
la loi portant regime financier des communes, seront inscrites en totalite a la section "ordinaire" du
budget. Des methodes adaptees pour la programmation des travaux d'entretien seront mises au
point et les formations necessaires a leur application seront organisees. Un systeme d'avance
mensuelle sur les recettes des Circonscriptions Urbaines sera mis en place pour perrnettre une
repartition plus reguliere des activites d'entretien. Differentes options de delegation de la gestion a
des operateurs prives (afferTnaae, concession, etc.) seront etudiees et mises en ceuvre pour les
equipements marchands et socio-collectifs.
17.   Pour les investissements, la procedure Programme Pluriannuel de Developpernent et
d'Investissement (PPDI) sera rendue similaire A celle du PIP national. Un programme triennal
d'investissement et d'entretien, incluant un programme prioritaire pour lannee sera institue. Les
deux programmes seront annexes au budget des Circonscriptions Urbaines et conditionneront son
approbation par l'autorite de tutelle. Le programme prioritaire comprendra d'une part un sous-
programme "entretien" et d'autre part un sous-programme "investissements" compose d'operations
individualis6es et clairement localisees, dont la faisabilite aura ete prealablement etablie.
18. Afin d'assurer une concertation plus large sur les operations decidees par les Circonscriptions
Urbaines, les depenses de travaux. y compris ceux prevus en r6gie, seront le plus possible
prograrnmees et budgetisees en operations individualisees. Cette identification prealable facilitera
leur mise en coherence avec les initiatives des autres intervenants publics et prives. Elle rendra
6galement plus aisee l'evaluation annuelle de l'action des Villes et facilitera la diffusion de
l'information des adrninistres sur l'usage des fonds publics par les collectivites publiques locales.
19. L'Etat prendra les dispositions r6glementaires perrnettant de systematiser la pratique de la
programmation des travaux neufs et d'entretien, de l'inscrire durablement dans la procedure
d'elaboration du budget, et d'inciter les Circonscriptions Urbaines A reduire les provisions pour
operations non programmees, notamment les services rendus en regie au benefice de particuliers.
Ces provisions devTont &re reduites a moins de 5% du montant des budgets des Circonscriptions
Urbaines A partir de I'an 2000.
20.  Pour l'execution des travaux et prestations dont elles ont la charge, et linteret des
populations, les Circonscriptions Urbaines donneront chaque fois que possible la preference (par
opposition a la r6gie) aux contrats en maitrise d'ouvrage directe ou deleguee. Ce recours au
secteur prive permettra a ces Villes de gerer simultanement un volume de travaux ou de services
plus important que la regie. dans de meilleures conditions de transparence et de coat. Il leur
permettra egalement de promouvoir le developpement du secteur prive et de contribuer a la
creation d'emplois et a la reduction de la pauvrete urbaine par un acces plus large, plus regulier et
durable A la commande publique locale.
L POL / CONTRAT - 01/03/99              -79-



21.  Afin d'assurer le maintien durable du niveau de service des equipements et des ouvrages
qu'elles realisent, les Circonscriptions Urbaines adopteront des modes de gestion permettant une
mise en service rapide et un fonctionnement economique et durable. Elles programmeront et
budgetiseront chaque annee les travaux d'entretien des infrastructures dont elles ont la charge et
assureront le suivi periodique de leur niveau de service effectif, afin de prendre ou de faire prendre
les mesures necessaires pour limiter les risques d'interruption. Elle deleguera la gestion des
equipements kconomiques et socio-culturels au secteur priv6 marchand ou associatif selon les
methodes les plus adaptees et faisant appel a la concurrence.
22. L'Etat mettra en place les conditions necessaires a cette evolution. Pour cela, il instaurera et
assurera la mise en pratique de procedures simplifiees, pour la passation des marches des
Circonscriptions Urbaines et veillera a raccourcir les delais de r6glement des entreprises
prestataires de travaux et de services pour le compte des collectivites publiques locales. L'Etat fera
adopter en prion'te le projet de loi sur la maitrise d'ouvrage publique. II amenagera les conditions
de la delegation de maitnrse d'ouvrage afin d'assurer une meilleure prise en compte des futures
prerogatives municipales. II prendra les mesures aptes a susciter la reduction progressive des
services traditionnellement rendus en r6gie. L'objectif sera de desengager les collectivites locales
des tiches d'execution en reoie d'ici l'an 2002. L'objectif sera aussi de d6sengager les Villes des
services aux particuliers qui peuvent etre laisses au secteur prive, comme la vidange des fosses
septiques, les transports des personnes decedees, etc.. A terrne et au plus tard en l'an 2001, tous
les services aux particuliers precedemment rendus en regie le seront par des operateurs prives dans'
un cadre concurrentiel re'lement6.
23.  Les competences prevues par la loi portant organisation des communes a statut particulier,
ainsi que les modes de gestion possibles des services correspondants, seront precises et modules
en fonction de la taille et des capacites des Circonscriptions Urbaines.
24. Les Circonscriptions LUrbaines des trois villes procederont syst6matiquement a l'evaluation
prealable de la faisabilite technique, economique et sociale de leurs proarammes d'investissement
avant d'engasger leur realisation. Elles seront ainsi mieux en mesure de prevoir et d'eviter [es
retards de mise en service des equipements et des ouvrages ou les difficultes de fonctionnement
ulterieures. L'evaluation comparative de la faisabilite des projets permettra egalement aux
Circonscriptions Urbaines de rationaliser et de rendre plus equitables leurs reponses aux demandes
des usagers, colle6tivites, particuliers et autorites.
25. L'analyse de faisabilite portera sur tous les aspects de la viabilite technique et financiere de la
realisation et du fonctionnement des projets: mode d'execution des investissements, mode de
gestion et de remuneration des services, charges recurrentes, impacts sociaux, economiques
financiers et environnementaux, solutions alternatives, etc. Les CU prendront toutes les mesures
nkcessaires pour impliquer, quand cela est possible, les communautes et les associations de
quartiers dans la definition, le financement et la gestion des projets qui seraient realises dans les
quartiers.
26. L'Etat, de son c6te aidera les CU a se doter des moyens permettant de mieux instruire les
requetes et les projets emanant des communaut6s de base, qu'il s'agisse de comites de quartiers
dont la mise en place sera encouragee, ou d'associations d'usagers des equipements collectifs et
services publics.
L POL I CONTRAT - 01/03i99             -80-



27. Pour faciliter la mise en application de cette etape essentielle du processus de programmation,
I'Etat fera mettre au point des methodes simples et rapides, fondees sur des criteres precis et clairs,
pour l'evaluation de la faisabilite des projets dans les differents secteurs (infrastructures et
services). La diffusion et l'application de ces methodes seront soutenues par des manuels, qui
seront elabores sous la conduite des services techniques de l'Etat et mis a la disposition des
Circonscriptions Urbaines. Des programmes de formation et la mise en place au besoin d'une
assistance-conseil seront egalement etudies.
28. L'Etat encouragera et facilitera egalement le recours a des audits et conseils extemes pour
juger de la validite et de la faisabilite des projets d'investissement budg6tis6s par les
Circonscriptions Urbaines et du niveau de services offerts par les CU aux administres dans ces
trois villes. Ce mandat sera confie a une structure technique independante, capable d'aider
directement les Circonscriptions Urbaines a finaliser la faisabilite de leurs projets et a conduire des
enquetes et sondages d'opinions permettant de juger de la credibilite des projets aupres des
populations.
29. L'objectif est que l'etude de faisabilite devienne une etape systematique de l'instruction des
projets d'investissement des Circonscriptions Urbaines a partir de l'an 2000.
30. Les Circonscriptions Urbaines seront appuyees dans leurs activites de programmation et de
budgetisation par des guides methodologiques, des formations et des assistances-conseils.
Certaines dispositions incitatives ou restrictives seront egalement etudiees: participation
financiere de l'Etat aux depenses du programme prioritaire, annonce et regularisation des produits
fiscaux et de la taxe de voirie, limitation des depenses d'investissement et d'entretien effectuees
hors programme, etc.
31. Le respect de ces principes de presentation budg6taire, de programmation et de gestion
conditionnera I'approbation du budget 2000 et l'ensemble du dispositif devra etre mis en place
pour 1'exercice budgetaire 2001.
32. Suivi d'execution des depenses. Les Circonscriptions Urbaines mettront en place un
dispositif de suivi d'execution de leurs depenses permettant de mesurer l'auznentation de leur
productivite en matiere de service. Ce suivi, complementaire du suivi d'execution budgetaire
existant, consistera a enregistrer pour chaque mandat emis par la Circonscription Urbaine ou pour
chaque reglement sur caisse d'avance les identifiants necessaires pour evaluer la gestion des
Circonscriptions Urbaines aux plans du service rendu, de ses couts, de ses delais et de ses
localisations.
33. L'Etat aidera les Circonscriptions Urbaines a concevoir et a mettre en place ce dispositif. II
etablira la liste des depenses de service, ainsi que celle des differents indicateurs de performance
de la gestion des Circonscriptions Urbaines. Afin de susciter une emulation entre les villes, ces
indicateurs pourront faire l'objet de publication voire d'incitations sous forme de majoration du
concours de I'Etat aux Circonscriptions Urbaines les plus performantes.
34. Le systeme de suivi des depenses sera mis en place des le debut de l'exercice budgetaire de
l'an 2000.
L POL ICONTRAT - 01/0'3/99            -81-



35. Organisation interne et motivation du personnel. L'Etat aidera les Circonscriptions
Urbaines a rendre plus efficace le travail de leur personnel, en faisant elaborer et executer, en
collaboration avec elles, un programme de sensibilisation centre sur l'organisation du travail et la
motivation des agents.
36.  Les seminaires thematiques, les audits fonctionnels et "ateliers de qualite" pour certains
services cles (entretien de la voirie en terre, elimination des ordures, des eaux usees, services aux
particuliers, etc.) sensibiliseront les agents des Circonscriptions Urbaines sur leurs roles respectifs,
et les amrneront a formuler des objectifs mesurables, des criteres d'evaluation et des propositions
concretes pour l'amnlioration de l'organisation et des procedures.
37. Des manuels definissant des methodes et des orientations pour la programmation des
depenses de fonctionnement et d'investissement, la gestion et le suivi des principaux services
publics, seront etablis en liaison avec les administrations techniques concernees. Ils auront valeur
de directives de l'autorite de tutelle. Des systemes d'int6ressement des agents aux performances
accomplies en matiere de services publics seront egalement etudies et appliques afin de donner aux
Circonscriptions Urbaines un plus grand impact sur la motivation de leur personnel.
38. Les dispositions correspondantes seront prises et leur application derTa se faire au cours de
l'annee 1999 et en tout etat de cause des le demarrage du projet d'ajustement du secteur urbain.
C. MISE EN OEUVRE
39. Pour parvenir a ces objectifs, le Gouvemement est decide a mettre en cru,Te un programme
d'ajustement des Villes de Cotonou, Parakou et Porto-Novo . Les resolutions de la presente lettre
de politique seront mises en ceuvre par les Circonscriptions Urbaines et par les administrations
centrales concernees dans le cadre de ce programme pour le financement duquel le Gouvernement
a l'intention de faire appel a l'IDA et a d'autres partenaires de la communaute des bailleurs de
fonds.
40.  Ce programme visera d'une part, a repondre aux besoins les plus urgents en infrastructures
de base dans ces trois villes, et d'autre part a ameliorer la capacite des Circonscriptions Urbaines a
rendre des services urbains de base aux populations. II sera realise en deux (2) tranches, dont le
lancement sera conditionne par le respect d'engagements reciproques pris par les Circonscriptions
Urbaines et par l'Etat, representes par les differentes administrations concernees.
41. Ces engagements seront forrnules dans des "Protocoles d'Accord entre les Villes concernees
(actuelles CU) et l'Etat", ces protocoles etant specifiques a chaque ville. Les engagements de I'Etat
seront relatifs d'une part au financement du programme d'infrastructures, et d'autre part a la mise
en oeurTe des mesures et actions d'appui aux Circonscriptions Urbaines ressortant de la presente
lettre de politique. Les actions d'appui necessaires a l'obtention des resultats attendus en matiere
de gestion des services urbains seront proposees annuellement au Comite Interministeriel de Suivi
du Programme. Les engagements des Circonscriptions Urbaines seront formules en termes de
resultats A obtenir en matiere de gestion et de services, sur la base d'indicateurs de perforrnance et
de valeurs-objectifs specifiques a chaque ville.
L POL / CONTRAT - 0110.3/99             -82-



42. Le contenu de la premiere tranche du projet comprendra une partie des infrastructures
prioritaires programmees, ainsi que les appuis de lEtat pour I'amrlioration des capacites de
gestion des Circonscriptions Urbaines. La seconde tranche realisera un ensemble d'infrastructures
dont le volume et le contenu seront modules selon les villes en fonction des resultats effectifs
obtenus par les Circonscriptions Urbaines en matiere de gestion et de services a Vissue de la
premiere tranche.
43. Les mesures enoncees ci-dessus seront prises par le Ministere des Finances, le Ministere de
!'Environnement, de l'Habitat et de 'LUrbanisme, le Ministere de l'Int6rieur, de la Securite et de
l'Administration Territoriale et les Circonscriptions Urbaines.
ECt COSD1% MtL                   (44  f ?9
LE MtINISTRE DE L'ENVIRONNNEMENT, DE          LE MNISTRE DE L'INTERIELR, DE LA
LHABITAT ET DE L'                          SECURITE ET DE L'ADNIIS     TRAO
,t ~~~~~~TERRITORIALE   '2
Adek ediou S.     ES                         Danie      EMA  x
d_e 1- 4 t C>
t~d v.'JOTHANE
F : c                 omu    _ 28*/9  eP-
PeL N4TR        c T - 01A00 399
L POL ICONTRAT - 0 1/03/99         - 83~-



MAP SECTION



IBRD 28525
MAIf         fE
/-UFRKIV                                                     NIGER 
COTE TC+O) / NtGERIA                                                    /               t.o,/d ono
VIYOIRE iGHANAt IL       ,                !         - ::            \                    )          denDmm=IsTho Wod    mo-
BURKIN \                 RM                                          TENtm  i,f...i:
FASO                                                                        P
0    20   40   60   80  100
KILOMETERS
~~~~~~~\jem~~Soikorar   3 )
T/"'\ NATITINGOU\ e   _          <5         v Ku SSegbana'
(>g   Materi"<          i'   1                vr      z               ;' (~~41 ~ogou  NIGERIA
J, ~~~~~~~ 0+                                                                   ( agit     | S {   
Kobli --\Tuonon                                        >      /:                        ,
Tof,9. N   I  *t   _. re      )    ~~~Sinende 6           
-o-Jo   'N\Boukoumbbe   /    'oembereke                                       /
.sg       ; 'ATAKORA P6honko    5brG i
.   '             <              4 ~~~BORGOU; 
10-
Kopag       ~                   dii'        ,- ;N'ikki      *
*  ,0jougou       XQ                          .ee* 
T. Skd6,~ ~ ~~O. x~K~ii
LOM~~~  t%   ActLANTBENINNI
10' \ _                                   -              so- iV\,
TOGO                                           U6SSi                                                               1997
1 ! ~zouIa
{)   |   I Glazouo  2t    t                      -  ~~~PAYED ROADS
\         \.- '   s           \        l                       - - GRAVEL ROADS
95 E q 9 2~~~~~~~ rB ~~RAILROADS
4   i;   t    2 e         |                      +  ~~~~~~~INTERNAT(ONALAIRPORT
%   .\ -'  S s           t                       +  ~~~~~~~~~~AIRFIELDS
gx    | \   >Djidja}   9$:  816 Ktou (oDISTRICT CAPITALS
\    j  A2MEt I pOto@6<t g  j                               PROVINCE CAPITALS
{_}     1  S oa  hiconR    t\ ^                               NATIONAL CAPITALS
<_   Agban nzun  IZgoL1        X
T. N.tsb,L-  m                 Zob  S                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-7e          ~~~~Aplah    Miuekni&                     b                      -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Lo  O@SAMONO             ZeA    o        ..oous
>          iCo;                 X        C a~~~~~~T NOVO Logo
GHANi'; ~
January 1997



