                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 31829

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (PPFI-Q0660 IDA-32340)

                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.9 MILLION
                           (US$ 25.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF BENIN

             FOR THE FIRST DECENTRALIZED CITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                     March 30, 2005




Water and Urban II
Country Department 15
Africa Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective March 9, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = FCFA
                                    FCFA 1,000 = US$ 2.01
                                         US$ 1 = FCFA 496.6

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD       Agence Française de Développement
AGETUR    Agence d'Exécution de Travaux Urbains
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CISCO     Comité Interministériel de Suivi, de Coordination et d'Orientation
CISU      Community Initiative Support Unit
COSUCO    Comité de Suivi, de Coordination et d'Orientation
CU        Circonscription Urbaine
IDA       International Development Agency
MEHU      Ministère de l'Environnement, de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme
MFE       Ministère des Finances et de l'Economie
MISD     Ministère de l'Intérieur de la Sécurité et de la Décentralisation
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NDC       Neighborhood Development Committee
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QSA       Quality of Supervision Assessment
RPF       Resettlement Policy Framework
SERHAU-SA Société d'Etudes Régionales d'Habitat et d'Aménagement Urbain - Société Anonyme
SMEs      Small and Medium Enterprises



                                Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                              Country Director     A. David Craig
                               Sector Manager      Eustache Ouayoro
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Franck Bousquet

                                               BENIN
                 FIRST DECENTRALIZED CITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
   6. Sustainability                                                                13
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
   9. Partner Comments                                                              19
   10. Additional Information                                                       19
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
   Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 31
   Annex 9. APL triggers for the Second Phase                                       44
IBRD Map No. 33923

Project ID: P035648                                                  Project Name: 1ST DECEN.CITY MGMT.
Team Leader: Franck Bousquet                                         TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: 1ST DECEN.CITY MGMT.                                     L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0660; IDA-32340
   Country/Department: BENIN                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Sewerage (39%); Roads and highways (39%); Sub-national
                            government administration (14%); Other social services (8%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Other urban development
                            (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Municipal governance
                            and institution building (S); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/25/1998                                     Effective: 09/01/1999                03/28/2000
     Appraisal: 05/13/1999                                         MTR: 09/01/2002                  02/24/2003
      Approval: 06/03/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/SERHAU-SA & AGETUR
                      Other Partners:      AFD (parallel financing)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 Eustache Ouayoro                               Letitia A. Obeng
Team Leader at ICR:             Franck Bousquet                                Hedi Larbi
ICR Primary Author:             James Wright (Consultant);
                                Franck Bousquet (TTL);
                                Christian Eghoff; Sophie
                                Hans-Moevi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the First Decentralized City Management Project was to provide better quality
and more cost effective basic services to urban residents, especially the poor, of Benin's three
main cities (Cotonou, Porto Novo and Parakou). These three cities were chosen for Phase I
because they had the special status of "Circonscription Urbaine" (CU ­ urban area with a special
semi-autonomous status), indicating municipalities' existing technical and financial capabilities
upon which to build.

More precisely, and as detailed in Annex 1of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Project
had three specific sub-objectives: (i) sound municipal financing to ensure 100% financing of urban
services; (ii) improvements in living conditions and commuting in the 3 CUs; and (iii) replicable
process     in    place    to   develop      low-income      neighborhoods     using    community
participation/partnerships with CUs.

The Project was the first phase of a planned two-phased Adaptable Program Loan (APL), with
the first phase planned to be implemented from 2000 to 2003. Phase II of the APL was expected
to continue urban infrastructure projects and community micro-projects and to expand the scope
to additional cities and towns. Triggers for institutional development and implementation of
physical works were stipulated as conditions for moving to Phase II.

The objective of the project and the design of the components (described in Section 3.3 below)
were an appropriate response to the situation that existed in the urban sector in Benin at the time
of project appraisal. The project was based on careful analysis of the main issues in the sector and
the Government strategy to deal with them:

(i) Rapid urban growth had led to haphazard settlements, often on environmentally vulnerable
land with poor infrastructure and services;

(ii) Past Governments had not invested sufficiently in urban infrastructure and maintenance, and
this was constricting the productivity of the largest cities;

(iii) Municipal management was weak, and staff lacked capacity and experience to provide
services. The Central Government wanted to decentralize urban service provision, giving more
power to the municipalities, but this process would require local capacity building, improvement
of urban regulations and support from the Government and outside agencies;

(iv) Responsibility for determining and collecting municipal revenues was divided between the
Ministry of Finance (property and business taxes) and the municipalities (various fees) with little
coordination. Weak CU staff capacity resulted in low billing and collection of local taxes (40% to
55% of potential). Budgeting and accounting records were not well kept; and

(v) Urban populations were not involved in decisions on investments in their communities, and
they had no responsibility for maintenance.




                                                 - 2 -

The project followed a previous successful project, the Urban Rehabilitation and Management
Project (effective in 1993), which had begun to work with local governments in Cotonou and
Porto-Novo to upgrade urban infrastructure and improve capacity in the CUs. The Urban Works
Implementing Agency (Agence d'Exécution des Travaux Urbains - AGETUR) was created to
contract and supervise urban works on behalf of local governments. The experience gained from
this project provided an understanding of the issues and began to establish an institutional base for
expanding urban development to additional cities. It also provided the basis for instituting a
broader capacity building program within cities to improve local tax collection and financial
management and to target poor urban neighborhoods with environmental and other
improvements.

The project remains relevant in relation with the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (of
July 2003), supporting each of the CAS' three pillars: 1) The macroeconomic framework was
bolstered by supporting the cities' potential to drive regional growth; 2) Access to basic services
was targeted towards poor neighborhoods; and 3) Institutional reform was improved through
support to the decentralization process.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project had three components:

Component 1. Municipal Management Strengthening (estimated cost at appraisal: US$ 3.40
million; actual cost: US$ 3.85 million). Phase I of the APL would improve the level and quality
of local public services (particularly sanitation and infrastructure maintenance) provided by the
CUs of Cotonou, Porto-Novo and Parakou. As defined in Annex 1 of the PAD, and detailed
below in section 4.2, the three outputs of Component 1 were: (i) effective management tools at
local and central level; (ii) improved technical and financial management capacity in CU and line
Ministry staff; and (iii) improved decision-making processes including greater transparency and
accountability. Much of the training and financial improvement under this component would be
managed by the Agency for Studies of Regional Development, Housing and Urban Development
(Société d'Etudes Régionales d'Habitat et d'Aménagement Urbain ­ SERHAU-SA) which would
also help the Government with coordination at the central level.

Component 2. Basic Infrastructure Construction and Rehabilitation in the CUs (estimated cost at
appraisal: US$ 21.80 million; actual cost: US$ 21.35 million). The objectives of Component 2
were to improve transport and access to basic services for urban residents of Cotonou,
Porto-Novo and Parakou, particularly those in low-income areas and to improve the urban
environment. This included significantly and sustainably reducing the effects of periodic flooding
on public health and on private and public infrastructure in areas which currently have no access
to primary drainage. As defined in Annex 1 of the PAD, and detailed below in section 4.2, the
three outputs of Component 2 were: (i) improved and sustainable urban transport network and
access; (ii) better urban sanitation; and (iii) greater private sector capacity/employment generation
in construction and related industries. Implementation of Component 2 would be delegated to
AGETUR. Parallel financing was provided by the French Development Agency (Agence



                                                   - 3 -

Française de Développement ­ AFD).

Component 3. Neighborhood Initiatives (estimated cost at appraisal: US$ 2.40 million; actual
cost: US$ 3.11 million). This component would cover five urban low-income neighborhoods: two
in Cotonou, two in Porto Novo, and one in Parakou. An NGO would be selected to help establish
Community Initiative Support Units (CISUs) at the municipal level, contract for technical studies,
develop and disseminate project development guidelines, and identify and launch micro-projects.
The CISUs, with the assistance of the NGO, would promote Neighborhood Development
Committees (NDCs) to promote awareness and involve neighborhoods in selecting and
maintaining community improvements. As defined in Annex 1 of the PAD, and detailed below in
section 4.2, the two outputs of Component 3 were: (i) improved urban environment in poor
neighborhoods; and (ii) more community participation/integration of urban residents in
neighborhood/CU development.

Project coordination at the national level was to be assured by an Inter-Ministerial Coordination
and Steering Committee (Comité Interministériel de Suivi, de Coordination et de Orientation ­
CISCO) which would have regular meetings chaired by the Minister of Environment, Housing and
Urban Development, with representatives of other Ministries with areas of responsibility affected
by the project, and representatives of the three CUs. CISCO's role was to take overall decisions
on project implementation, meet quarterly to review activity reports of the implementing agencies
and local steering committees, discuss and act on institutional recommendations arising from
project implementation, and oversee application of conventions between the Central Government
and each of the cities. City-level Coordination Committees were established in the municipalities,
headed by the Secretary General of the municipality and assisted by the Director of Technical
Services, the Chief of the Finance Office and the CISU, with representation from the Directorate
of Environment, Housing and Urban Development, the Directorate of Taxation, and the NDCs
that were to be established under the project.

A set of quantifiable performance triggers were established for the initiation of Phase II, including
targets for urban tax collection, recovery of receivables, the percentage of the CUs' costs spent
on urban services, allocation of expenditures by CUs for routine maintenance and the number of
neighborhood projects approved by the CISUs (Annex 9 lists in details these triggers).

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was designed to address the main issues in the urban sector (see Section 3.1) and to
support Government efforts to reduce poverty and unemployment, develop small business, and
improve the environment. The project built well on previous experience in the urban sector in
Benin, in particular the Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project which was particularly key
in establishing an adequate implementation and maintenance mechanism, including mobilization of
local resources for maintenance.

The project also established an appropriate organizational structure at the national, local and
neighborhood levels for the first phase that would be useful in subsequent phase. Additionally, the


                                                - 4 -

project was instrumental in involving two independent agencies, AGETUR and SERHAU-SA,
which brought in expertise from beyond the public sector to complement central and local
Government actions. These agencies, rather than Government Ministries, were responsible for
much of the day-to-day project direction and implementation activities. The two-phased structure
of the APL enabled the new elements of the project to be initiated in a limited number of cities
and neighborhoods before the approach was expanded.

Project design addressed the need for resource mobilization, which is fundamental to sustaining
decentralization reform, through the establishment of new municipal structures for improved tax
collection and financial management. The establishment of the CISUs and the NDCs were
important innovations that proved successful and augured well for development in Phase II and
beyond. The community consultations, established under the project, were judged to be
appropriate for achieving sustainable improvement of the quality of life in low-income
neighborhoods. Lastly, there was good coordination during project preparation between the Bank
and AFD (which brought in parallel financing) and the other donors involved in the sector.

This high quality of project design was confirmed by a Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
assessment of quality at entry. It was given highly satisfactory or satisfactory ratings in all
categories. Given the high level of urbanization and urban poverty in Benin, the assessment
concluded there was a good rationale for this type of project. The assessment noted that the
project built carefully on both project and sector work in Benin and drew lessons from other
countries. The project was considered to be well prepared. It noted that there was extensive
consultation with central and local Governments.

At appraisal, the risk of high turnover of trained staff in the municipalities was rated as negligible.
The risk minimization measure was that key staff committed to stay on for the duration of the
project. However, the project did in fact encounter problems related to a high staff turnover,
partially caused by the municipal elections in 2002, which contributed to a delay in project
implementation. Nonetheless, as this turnover was difficult to foresee at appraisal, the QAG rating
of highly satisfactory for the quality at entry is maintained.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory.

The project achieved the objective of providing better quality and cost-effective basic services to
urban residents, especially the poor, of Benin's three main cities. The APL triggers for the second
phase were globally met, with some indicators largely surpassing the trigger objectives in advance
of the project's completion, as shown in the table in Annex 9. The satisfactory conclusion of
Phase I has led to the initiation of Phase II that will involve other donors in up to eight secondary
cities and continue to promote improvements in the original three cities. Using the three specific
objectives detailed in Annex 1 of the PAD and as reflected in Annex 1 of the ICR, the
achievement of project objectives is evaluated as follows:

(i) Sound municipal financing to ensure 100% financing of urban services is rated highly



                                                   - 5 -

satisfactory. As a result of the project, and as supported below, the three cities of Cotonou,
Porto-Novo and Parakou have improved their local taxation systems and collect more revenue,
dedicate a larger share of these revenues to delivering urban services, and provide more funds to
maintenance of urban services, in a sustainable manner.

Between 1999 and 2004 in Porto-Novo, the total revenue growth was 148% (versus a target of
45%), the percentage of the city's recurrent costs budget allocated and spent on urban services
grew from 39% to 66% (versus a target of 75% to 80%), the billed tax collection rate increased
to 48% (versus a target of 40%), and the share of the city's recurrent costs budgets allocated and
spent on routine maintenance on roads and drainage of total recurrent cost expenditures increased
from 9% to 23% (versus a target of 25% to 30%).

Over the same period of time, in Parakou, the total revenue growth was 131%, the percentage of
the city's recurrent costs budget allocated and spent on urban services grew from 52% to 72%,
the billed tax rate increased to 72% (versus a target of 65%), and the share of the city's recurrent
costs budgets allocated and spent on routine maintenance on roads and drainage of total recurrent
cost expenditures increased from 1% to 43%.

Over the same period of time, in Cotonou, the total revenue growth was 82%, the percentage of
the city's recurrent costs budget allocated and spent on urban services grew from 65% to 81%,
the billed tax rate was 67%, and the share of the city's recurrent costs budgets allocated and spent
on routine maintenance on roads and drainage of total recurrent cost expenditures increased
moderately from 22% to 23%.

(ii) Improvements in living conditions and commuting in the three CUs is rated satisfactory.
The project delivered key urban services to urban residents and reduced flooding, which in turn
resulted in improved living conditions: Both the roads and drainage constructed serve a larger
population than the target. 17,000 households (i.e. approx. 85,000 people) gained access to roads
due to the project versus a target of 10,000 households (i.e. approx. 50,000 people) as projected
in the PAD, and about 400,000 people living near the new drains are protected from periodic
flooding, versus a target of 160,000.

(iii) Replicable process in place to develop low-income neighborhoods using community
participation/partnerships with CUs is rated satisfactory. The project set in place a replicable
process to develop poor neighborhoods as it institutionalized community participation through its
innovative approach of creating CISUs in the municipalities and transferring part of the
neighborhood development decision-making to the NDCs. Poor neighborhoods were the main
beneficiaries of the micro-projects, flood protection, and new roads providing access to the rest of
the city in the five poor neighborhoods selected for participation under the project (Yénawa,
Ahouansori, Alaga, Djègan Daho, Tokpota). The number of neighborhood projects reviewed and
approved by the CISUs was 4 in Cotonou (versus a target of 2 in the PAD), 3 in Porto-Novo
(versus a target of 1) and 1 for Parakou (which was the project's initial target). After project
closure, the CISUs remain operational and have been duplicated beyond the three primary cities.
In both Cotonou, Porto-Novo and Parakou, the number of neighborhood projects reviewed and
approved by the CISUs surpassed the targets originally established. 39,000 people have benefited



                                                - 6 -

from the rehabilitation or construction of unpaved roads in poor neighborhoods.

The use of labor-intensive techniques to implement works under the project created employment,
albeit temporary, for unskilled and semi-skilled labor and thereby reduced urban unemployment.
About 500,000 man-days of employment were created over the four years and six months of
project implementation. Additionally, 560 permanent jobs have been created through the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Municipal Management Strengthening (Actual cost: US$ 3.85 million)

This component is rated satisfactory. As a result of this component, the three municipalities, as
well as the key Ministries (Ministry of Finance ­ Ministère des Finances et de l'Economie (MFE),
Ministry of Environment, Habitat and Urban Affairs ­ Ministère de l'Environnement, de l'Habitat
er de l'Urbanisme (MEHU) and Ministry of the Interior, Security, and Decentralization ­
Ministère de l'Intérieur, de la Sécurité et de la Décentralisation (MISD)), have more effective
management tools and improved technical and financial management capacity. More specifically,
using the outputs defined in Annex 1 of the PAD, the achievement of the three outputs of this first
component is rated as follows:

(i) Effective management tools at local and central level is rated highly satisfactory. Through
this component, the project brought the following changes in the organizational and financial
management of the three beneficiary cities: (i) implementation of financial/accounting manuals
describing the procedures to be strictly followed by Finance Department staff; (ii) rationalization
of the tax basis and recovery system for locally and centrally administered urban taxes; and (iii)
better tracking of potential tax payers through the establishment of database and clear tax
recovery procedures. These changes were implemented following the recommendations of a set of
studies, audits and workshops financed under this component.

Computerized budget management systems have been put in place in all three municipalities.
Studies and audits, financed under the project, provided specific recommendations relative to the
organization and functioning of the technical services of the municipalities with the definition of
new performance indicators and procedures for bidding and managing human resources. Those
recommendations were endorsed by municipalities participating in a workshop organized by
SERHAU-SA and held at the completion of the studies (November 2002). Additionally, follow up
training was provided to the municipalities' technical services on this topic. Technical Service
Units (Directions de Services Techniques) have been established in the three municipalities,
enabling them to monitor the implementation of public works.            Other cities have become
interested in similar reforms, including institutional reforms, the establishment of CISUs, and
improvements leading to fiscal enhancement such as establishing cadastres.

As planned, a local finance monitoring unit has been established in the MFE; this unit being in
charge of controlling municipalities' revenues and expenses, in line with the Central Government
accounting procedures. Through the project, this unit acquired a database of financial statistics on
Benin's municipalities and acts as an advisory department for local fiscal staff for MFE entities as
well as for the cities. Following an organizational and financial audit of the MEHU, this Ministry
streamlined its internal organization and redeployed its staff to its local representations (the line


                                                - 7 -

urban development departments) to better assist the municipalities. Lastly, following the
recommendation of a study financed under this component, a communication unit was created
within the MEHU in order to clarify and coordinate governmental communication on the
environment, housing and urban sectors.

(ii) Improved technical and financial management capacity in CU and line Ministry staff is
rated satisfactory. Performance indicators were established for municipal management in
accordance with the project documents. This component provided a total of approximately 915
man-days of training in the following main areas: (i) local urban management; (ii) procurement;
(iii) performance indicators in the urban sector; (iv) municipal finance (especially aimed at
improving efficiency of property and professional urban tax collection); (iv) budgeting and
accounting; (v) participation of communities in urban projects; and (vi) public private partnership.
The trainees came from three categories of staff: the three municipalities (mainly their finance
departments), the three Ministries (MEHU, MISD and MFE, including their local
representations), and the CISUs of the municipalities. For some training sessions, which involved
only a few selected staff, meetings were organized in their respective organizations to ensure
broad dissemination of information and more sustainable impact.

Before effectiveness, the three CUs had prepared FY2000 budgets in line with the proposed
reforms (expenditure distribution giving more weight to urban services, maintenance and adequate
staffing and less weight to overheads and salaries). As a result of the training provided, the three
municipalities' budgets are now monitored, and budget execution data is provided on a monthly
basis and consolidated into quarterly reports.

(iii)  Improved      decision-making     processes   including     greater     transparency     and
accountability is rated satisfactory. Diagnoses and recommendations financed under the project
strengthened cities' communication with tax payers and raised public awareness by clarifying the
relationship between urban taxation and urban service improvement. The respective roles of the
Government and the private sector were clarified following diagnoses financed under the project.
As a result, at the end of the Project, 100% of urban services are being contracted out. Seminars
and media campaigns contributed to educating urban residents on the rationale for urban taxes,
thereby enhancing the transparency of urban management in Benin's three primary cities.

Component 2: Basic Infrastructure Construction and Rehabilitation in the CUs (Actual
cost: US$ 21.35 million)

This component is rated satisfactory. Using the outputs defined in Annex 1 of the PAD, the
achievement of the three outputs of this second component is rated as follows:

(i) and (ii): Improved and sustainable urban transport network and access and better
urban sanitation are both rated satisfactory.

The targets for infrastructure construction under the project were reached, and serve a larger
population than anticipated. The physical outputs (roads and drainage) from Component 2 have
been gathered in one table presented below. In Cotonou, 9.9 km of paved roads have been



                                               - 8 -

 rehabilitated or constructed and 6.5 km of primary drainage have been constructed. Slightly
 fewer roads were constructed than anticipated (9.9 km versus a target of 10.0 km). This is due to
 the fact that the initial design of some isolated road sections had not taken into account the extra
 traffic that would be induced from other city roads. Therefore the design had to be revisited and
 this resulted in increased cost for some isolated road sections. An ex-post economic analysis has
 been carried out on these sections (see Annex 3). The excess construction in Porto-Novo more
 than compensates for the shortfall in Cotonou, so the totals for both roads and drainage actually
 constructed or rehabilitated slightly surpassed the targets.

 Both the roads and drainage that were constructed serve a larger population than the target as
 detailed in section 4.1 (sub-objective (ii)).

Indicator        Roads                                  Drainage
                 Appraisal target    Actual             Appraisal target    Actual
 Cotonou         10.0                9.9                7.2                 6.5
 Porto-Novo 3.8                      4.7                3.0                 5.2
 Total           13.8                14.6               10.2                11.7

 Taken into account the parallel financing from AFD, the total number of kilometers of roads
 rehabilitated and reconstructed amounts to 27.7 km.

 (iii) Greater private sector capacity/employment generation in construction and related
 industries is rated satisfactory.

 The project created jobs by contracting out to the private sector during project execution and
 encouraged the development of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in public works and helped
 develop national engineering capacity. Fifty small and medium contractors and eight design and
 supervision consulting firms were involved in this work. As detailed in section 4.1 (sub-objective
 (iii)), the project significantly generated employment. Further, the project indirectly generated jobs
 in other sectors of the economy, and in particular in the materials sector (sand, gravel, concrete,
 iron). Contracts concluded with private firms in this area amounted to about 9 Million USD (4.7
 Billion FCFA), leading to the creation of about 264,000 man-days of employment.

 Component 3: Community Participation and Integration (Actual cost: US$ 3.11 million)

 This component is rated moderately satisfactory. Using the outputs defined in Annex 1 of the
 PAD, the achievement of the two outputs of this third component is rated as follows:

 (i) Improved urban environment in poor neighborhoods is rated satisfactory. In each of
 Benin's primary cities, the number of neighborhood projects reviewed and approved by the CISUs
 surpassed the targets originally established. 39,000 people have benefited from the rehabilitation
 or construction of unpaved roads in poor neighborhoods. The construction of 50 water kiosks
 (run by women), four community centers, two health clinics, two markets, five schools and more
 than 20 latrines in the poorest neighborhoods of Cotonou, Porto-Novo, and Parakou have further
 contributed to improving the urban environment of poor urban residents of these cities. The


                                                  - 9 -

number of neighborhood projects reviewed and approved by the CISUs surpassed the initial
project targets, as detailed in section 4.1 (sub-objective (iii)).

(ii) More community participation/integration of urban residents in neighborhood/CU
development is rated moderately satisfactory. With the help of the NGO hired under the
project, 21 groups and women's cooperatives received support from a credit union to initiate
income-generating activities. Workshops were given on community development, local
governance, and the management of water kiosks. The CISU/NDC structure was also used to
educate the population on the use of potable water and on combating HIV/AIDS. Studies were
financed in Benin's primary cities identifying key areas of required actions, which will be
implemented under Phase II of the APL. The project has improved sanitary conditions and the
ability of the CUs to respond to neighborhood concerns, improved neighborhood capacity to
formulate initiatives using a participatory approach, and developed a real partnership between
communities and municipal governments. It has also led to the expansion of the CISUs' activities
and the creation of NDCs outside of the project. However, on the negative side, because of lack
of funding and inadequate planning, two Community Development Centers in Porto-Novo were
not provided with water and electricity, though the quality of the works was satisfactory.
Moreover, because of lack of funding, nine of the 84 micro-projects financed under Component 3,
while somewhat functional, still need equipment and furniture, which will be funded under Phase
II.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Ex-post economic analysis shows that investments made under Component 2 of the project
werehighly profitable, with profitability higher than initially calculated during appraisal, due to
higher than anticipated traffic.

The PAD estimated that the internal rate of return for rehabilitation of urban roads would be
between 13% and 104% in Cotonou and between 12% and 34% in Porto-Novo, due to the
vehicle operating cost saving derived from driving on paved roads. The analysis assumed that
paved roads would attract an annual increase of traffic of 5% to 7% in Cotonou and 5% in
Porto-Novo. In practice, traffic on roads paved under the project has risen annually by more than
11% in Cotonou and 10% in Porto-Novo, suggesting that benefits are much higher than first
anticipated.

A detailed ex-post economic analysis, using The Roads Economic Decision Model (RED), was
undertaken for the main road sections where costs have been higher than estimated. Annex 3
provides the summary of the analysis, showing that investments were still highly profitable, with
ERR varying from 31% to 290%. This high rate of return is mainly due to much higher than
anticipated traffic in Cotonou and Porto-Novo.

The overall IRR for Component 2 of the project (which represents US$ 21.35 Million out of US$
28.85 Million, i.e. 74% of total project cost) is far higher than 12%. Moreover, this level of
profitability does not take into account several other benefits of the project, such as: (i) the value
of time savings; (ii) the cost of congestion on existing roads that were relieved once the alternate
roads were paved, or (iii) the benefits derived from induced traffic on improved roads.



                                                 - 10 -

At appraisal, economic analysis was not undertaken for investments made in neighborhood
initiatives (Component 3) and in capacity building (Component 1), due to the size of the many
sub-projects and the difficulty in quantifying benefits.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
At appraisal, financial rates of return were not calculated for this type of a non-revenue generating
project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development is rated substantial.

Institutional development at the city level. Within the municipalities, there was improvement in
the provision of urban services and in support for community-level development initiatives.
Organizational structures were put in place leading to improved technical and financial services in
the municipalities. The municipal management component helped cities give more weight to urban
services and maintenance and less to overhead. Tax collection improved, and due to a significant
decrease of administrative costs, expenses were better controlled (see figures in Section 4.2). As a
result of the project, the three municipalities now have greater financial resources, have optimized
their technical departments in charge of urban infrastructure (technical services units were created
under the project to monitor the implementation of works and continued functioning after project
closure), and as a consequence deliver better quality drainage and road works to their residents.

Through the CISCO, created under Decree No. 99-164 of April 8, 1999, the municipalities have
gained direct representation in a Committee involving all key Ministries. CISCO had regularly
scheduled meetings. It examined reports from local agencies and helped to foresee problems and
find solutions. This Committee has been the main vector enabling municipalities to voice their
concerns relative to project execution or counterpart funding. Issues related to delays in the
transfer of Central Government grants to the cities have been partially solved thanks to this
Committee. Given the success of this structure, Phase II of the APL will continue having such a
Committee, expanding it to comprise representatives of the secondary cities to be included in the
follow-up project.

Institutional development at the central level. There was a concerted effort to improve the
capacity and organization of the Central Government so it could provide support to improved
management in the decentralized municipal governments. Improved management systems were
put in place, and a local finance management unit was established in the MFE. Capacity building
at the central level in support of decentralization was initially insufficient, given that the start of
project implementation coincided with the beginning of the decentralization process itself. To
address this issue, training was provided to key staff of the three Ministries (MFE, MISD,
MEHU) through the first component of the project, which strengthened their capacity to work
under the new decentralization framework and better comprehend the need to transfer more
responsibility and financial resources to the municipalities.


Institutional development at the community level. Institutional development was also extended
to the community level by the CISUs established in the municipalities. The CISUs helped the



                                                 - 11 -

communities to establish NDCs and implement micro-projects. Although there have been some
problems with the implementation and maintenance of community infrastructure (see Section 4.2
above) this experience provides a good model for improvement and expansion in Phase II.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The decentralization process described above, leading to the municipal elections held in December
2002, resulted in a turnover of municipal staff trained under the project, and as a consequence
contributed to subsequent project delays.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
At the beginning of implementation the project encountered delays in receiving the expected local
government funding. The CISCO structure, established by the project, has been especially useful
in this regard as it created a framework for discussions on technical and financial issues (including
counterpart funding problems) which were regularly discussed by the three municipalities and the
key Ministries (MEHU, MFE, MISD). These three Ministries helped to support the objectives of
the project by providing technical assistance, training workshops, and seminars at the municipal
level. They supported the newly decentralized structure and established improved communication
between the Central Government agencies in charge of local finance and the financial offices of
the CUs.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agencies generally worked in conformity with the project design and their
actions generally contributed to the successful implementation of the project. AGETUR, the
implementing agency for Component 2 (Infrastructure), carried out its functions in a satisfactory
manner. SERHAU-SA, the implementing agency for Components 1 and 3, showed some
weaknesses at the end of the project as revealed by an Independent Procurement Review in April
2004. The review showed in particular (i) lack of appropriate structure (including staffing) to
manage procurement for project implementation, (ii) lack of a Project Implementation Manual,
including Procurement and Financial Management Manuals; and (iii) lack of adequate record
keeping. However, this has not been shown to have affected project implementation directly, and
an action plan has been laid out to remediate these weaknesses for Phase II.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project costs were estimated at US$ 28.3 Million. The final costs were US$ 28.85
Million, i.e. only 1.94% more than PAD estimates. The breakdown of project financing among
IDA, the Central Government, and the municipalities has been respected with IDA providing
87.5% (compared to 90% anticipated at appraisal), Central Government 10.4% (compared to
8.0% at appraisal) and municipalities and communities 2.1% (compared to 1.9% at appraisal), the
differences being mainly due to exchange rate variation. Local counterpart funding has therefore
been provided as scheduled, which is notable. Annex 2 provides the detailed information on
project costs and financing. Parallel financing was provided by AFD, amounting to 4.6 M EUR.

The project was extended twice, to a total duration of four years six months, compared to three
years nine months as estimated in the PAD. As explained above, those extensions were mainly the
result of delays at the beginning of the project following the first municipal elections in Benin and



                                                     - 12 -

the initial lack of counterpart funding at central and local levels.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as Likely.

As outlined in the PAD, project sustainability derives from: (a) securing funding for operation and
maintenance through improved mobilization and utilization of local resources; (b) improved local
government management capacity, with a clear definition of responsibilities; and (c) transparency
and accountability of city managers to urban residents through quarterly public reporting and
information campaigns. These three aspects of sustainability are described below in more details.

a. Securing funding for operation and maintenance through improved mobilization and
utilization of local resources. Larger-scale works in the three cities, such as trunk roads and
drainage, are the responsibility of the CUs for maintenance. While past urban infrastructure
maintenance in Benin has been poor, the improvements at the national level and in local
government administration, technical service, and tax and financial administration have
significantly enhanced the sustainability of the infrastructure developed under the project. The
share of the cities' recurrent costs budgets allocated and spent on routine maintenance of roads
and drainage significantly increased between 1999 and 2004, as detailed in section 4.1
(sub-objective (i)). Given the success under this project, further improvements in central/local
Government finance of infrastructure maintenance can be expected under Phase II of the APL,
which is likely to further support infrastructure sustainability.

The maintenance of community infrastructure provided under Component 3 of the project, such
as health centers, schools, markets and water points has proved more problematic.             Some
community infrastructure, although of good quality, could not be operational mainly because the
necessary provisions for electricity, water supply and other equipment had not been made. The
prospects for maintenance at this level will be improved under Phase II of the project which will
approve Component 3 micro-projects only if the necessary provisions are made for their proper
functioning after construction. However, these issues affecting nine of 84 micro-projects have to
be seen in the perspective of the significantly higher importance granted to maintaining major
infrastructure works (of Component 2) in all three municipalities that clearly secure sustainability
of urban works in Benin's primary cities.

b. Improved local government management capacity, with a clear definition of
responsibilities. The organizational structure of the municipalities has improved due to the
project, with more qualified personnel in place, including technical officers and financial
management personnel. As a result of the recommendations of studies financed under the project,
the three municipalities of Cotonou, Porto-Novo and Parakou have changed their priorities,
focusing today on the definition, planning and control of urban works (e.g. roads and drainage)
while contracting out to the private sector the actual implementation of these works and some
specific services (especially the ones related to economic infrastructure, such as markets and
slaughterhouses). Additionally, the technical departments of Cotonou, Porto-Novo and Parakou
have been significantly strengthened, especially in terms of training, equipment and workshops.



                                                 - 13 -

c. Transparency and accountability of city managers to urban residents. Through the
quarterly public reporting and information campaigns financed under the project, local
governments have raised expectations and are more accountable to urban residents. Through
specific campaigns, residents have been informed of the use of urban taxes and, as a result, are
more willing to pay them. This important change of behavior in those cities should now continue.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The CUs have the primary responsibility for the operation and maintenance of trunk roads and
drains. The communities themselves are largely responsible for the operation and maintenance of
their community infrastructure. They will be aided in doing so by the CISUs that will work in
liaison with the communities. Phase II of the APL is expected to continue to reinforce the
operation and maintenance functions at the city and neighborhood levels.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in lending is rated highly satisfactory.

There were three preparation missions, beginning in early 1998, at the end of the Urban
Rehabilitation and Management Project. Studies were launched on training municipal staff in
Cotonou and Porto-Novo, identifying priority investment needs in seven secondary cities,
liberalizing the real estate market, simplifying urban regulations and bolstering local resource
mobilization. A training program for local governments was also discussed in detail as part of the
preparation and plans were made to improve local resource mobilization and local government
management.

Suitability of the APL Instrument. As project preparation progressed, the concept of an APL
was introduced, with a first project focusing on the three largest cities. By working through an
APL, the project was able to build on previous experience, suggesting appropriate studies and an
innovative central/local management system for the project. A second project to be undertaken
subsequently would deepen and spread the accomplishments of the first.

Clear definition of all stakeholders' involvement. Numerous meetings held between the Bank
and the Borrower contributed to precisely defining the roles and responsibilities of the
implementing agencies (AGETUR, SERHAU-SA) and the Coordination Committee (CISCO), as
well as to obtain commitment from them.

Appropriate assessment of risks and thorough policy discussion with the Central
Government during preparation. Besides the risk of staff turnover, which remains a risk
difficult to control (see Section 8 on Lessons Learned), all the other risks (in particular those
pertaining to the elections or counter-part funding) were well anticipated and appropriately rated,
as indicated in the PAD. The thorough policy discussion and demonstration of Central
Government commitment during preparation reduced the risk of failure of the project. Two
specific risks identified during preparation and dealt with in part through advance commitments
were: (a) the Central Government's commitment to financial reforms at the level of the


                                                  - 14 -

municipalities (leading to the Government adapting a Letter of Policy); and (b) weak adherence of
all parties to the project (leading to the establishment of CISCO).

A significant amount of previous project experience in the urban sector (especially through the
Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project), donor coordination and detailed project
preparation went into the preparation of this project. The lessons learned from the ICR of the
Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project were directly incorporated into the design of the
project, especially the lessons relative to the importance of delegated works management, the
need to increase and better monitor urban taxes, and the need to set up a Coordination Committee
to facilitate involvement of all stakeholders.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision is rated satisfactory.

There were eleven supervision missions during the project and a completion mission in November
2004. Most missions included an urban specialist and an urban finance specialist. Procurement
and disbursement specialists joined several of the missions. The missions helped to keep the
project on track, which was especially important when the new structure for municipal
management was being put together during the early implementation period. The missions
supported the central and local governments in the effort to implement a project that supported
fundamental changes in urban management and finance. The supervision missions were
particularly proactive in addressing the issue of counterpart funding at the beginning of the project
implementation.

The supervision of the project by the Bank was subject to a Quality of Supervision Assessment
(QSA) by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).              Overall quality of supervision was rated
Moderately Satisfactory (3 on a 6-point scale). The assessment noted that the team adapted well
to the changing environment and maintained a strong relationship with key counterparts. It noted
that the focus on capacity building and intended use of lessons learned in a second APL was
appropriate. A particular issue highlighted was that resettlement of one family was undertaken in
connection with community improvement without a resettlement framework being in place. The
QSA report states that the issue was dealt with in a laudable way, as the task team worked with
the Government, community leaders, and affected parties to resolve the resettlement problem to
the satisfaction of all stakeholders, but that there was no due diligence on the part of the Bank by
involving a safeguards specialist. The QSA also noted that problems were encountered at the time
of the election of municipal officials at the end of 2002, the first such election in Benin. When the
elected officials were going through a learning phase and realigning their administrations in FY03,
project performance ratings could have been reassessed then, but this was sorted out over time,
and the team did address those issues.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the innovative structure of the project, its largely successful completion and the likelihood
that the APL program will continue, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:




                                                  - 15 -

Borrower performance during preparation is rated highly satisfactory.

The Central Government assumed a strong leadership role during project preparation. The
Government decided that, rather than prepare a traditional follow-on project to the Urban
Rehabilitation and Management Project, it would use the APL structure to achieve more
fundamental reforms and to support the decentralization program.          The objectives and the
implementation structures that were put together for the APL set the stage for more
comprehensive and effective changes than would otherwise have been possible. In preparing the
project the Government showed a willingness to experiment with new methodologies, setting new
municipal structures in place to confront urban poverty and provide under-serviced urban
settlements with basic services.

The Central Government established a steering committee (CISCO) for the purposes of the
project. This structure fostered a strong cooperation among key Ministries involved in urban and
decentralization sectors (MFE, MEHU, MISAT) and ensured that decisions were taken
collectively with the beneficiary cities of Cotonou, Porto-Novo, and Parakou.

The Council of Ministers passed a Letter of Policy for Management of Urban Services in
Cotonou, Parakou, and Porto-Novo in March 1999, laying a strong foundation for the project and
committing the Government to supporting the project's global objectives of increasing the CUs'
own resources and improving the urban services provided to residents.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government counterpart funding (10% for funding equipment and infrastructure) was provided
for the project, with only a temporary delay at the beginning of the project, which was resolved in
an agreement among the MFE, MEHU, MISD and the implementing agencies. MFE transferred
funds to the municipalities and helped them to prepare budgets and, in concert with other
Ministries, assured that the municipalities received their share of budgetary resources. Project
accounts were replenished regularly.

The inter-ministerial coordination committee, CISCO, had regular meetings to examine reports
from the implementing agencies and local committees, assess the adequacy of the implementation
arrangements for the project, monitor the implementation of the project agreements by the cities
and served as liaison with the Council of Ministers about the project.

As a result, the Government's performance is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated as satisfactory.

There were two implementing agencies under the project. Separate project agreements were
signed with SERHAU-SA and AGETUR.

AGETUR, an agency developed under the Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project,
contracted for and supervised public works on behalf of the Central Government. It was placed in
charge of all the works under Component 2 (construction and rehabilitation of roads and drainage


                                                - 16 -

in Cotonou and Porto-Novo), and of works under Component 3 costing more than US$30,000.
It also played a role in training small-scale contractors and managed works financed in parallel by
AFD in Cotonou and Porto-Novo. An accounting system was installed in AGETUR early during
implementation. A technical audit of AGETUR's work under the project in 2002 noted that
AGETUR's management of procurement conformed to procedures and the quality of works was
good. Four financial and three technical audits (carried out as planned at appraisal) confirmed that
AGETUR's financial management was appropriate and that the quality of the works was
appropriate. The performance of AGETUR was highly satisfactory.

SERHAU-SA was contracted by MEHU under a delegated works contract to provide services
under Components 1 and 3. SERHAU-SA recruited and supervised consultants to help develop
a communication strategy, program infrastructure maintenance and new infrastructure works,
assist the communes to improve tax collection, carry out an institutional and organizational audit
of MEHU, review accounts and budgeting of the communes, procure computer equipment and
vehicles, procure services to build capacity in local governments, assess the rehabilitation of
historic sites in Porto-Novo, and reorganize the municipalities with regard to improving tax
receipts and providing maintenance.

SERHAU-SA signed a contract with an NGO in October 2000 to work with community
development.      The NGO successfully promoted community participation in small-scale
environmental and infrastructure improvements and developed the communities' capacity to
respond to local initiatives from the communities. It helped identify and implement micro-projects
in collaboration with the communities and SERHAU-SA, including establishing small-scale solid
waste management systems, a micro-finance system to finance small-scale income generating
activities and community improvements. It also mobilized community counterpart contributions.

SERHAU-SA also had an important coordinating role at the national level, as it was the technical
secretariat of the CISCO. During the second half of the project implementation, however,
SERHAU-SA encountered staffing problems, with negative impacts on procurement. Following
an independent procurement review for SERHAU-SA at the end of the project and a decision to
build more capacity at the Ministry level, the MEHU decided in November 2004 that
SERHAU-SA would not continue to be involved as the Project Coordination Unit in Phase II of
the APL. A new Project Coordinating Unit will be formed within the MEHU, with SERHAU-SA
focusing on managing studies to be carried out under the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

Under Phase I the Central Government undertook an innovative program that fundamentally
changed its financial and organizational relationships with the municipalities. Undertaking the
project was a bold step. The fact that so much of the program has been achieved is an important
accomplishment that has laid the basis for expanding the project. With the support of the Bank,
the Borrower decided in January 2005 to launch a formal review of the urban sector, gathering all
multilateral and bilateral donors under Phase II of the APL.




                                                - 17 -

8. Lessons Learned

Many lessons have been learned from the Benin First Decentralized City Management Project.
Some lessons are useful in relation to other Bank projects, while others are more applicable only
to the second phase of this program since it includes similar components.

Strong coordination at the central level can mitigate implementation difficulties

Although there was not enough capacity at the central level to ensure smooth project
implementation at project startup, the project steering committee, CISCO, later proved to be
essential in ensuring timely contribution of counterpart funding from both the Central Government
and the municipalities. The regular meetings, review of implementation reports, and direction that
was given by the committee helped ensure smooth project implementation.

Capacity building should be integrated with project coordination

Phase I showed that having an agency outside the line Ministry assuring coordinating
responsibilities meant a missed opportunity to build capacity at the central level. Because
SERHAU-SA had the role of technical secretariat of the CISCO, the MEHU had limited
resources to follow the project. By placing the technical secretariat at the central level, integrated
project coordination and capacity building are assured. The central level thus gains not only
project knowledge, but also general project-management capacity. Transfer of the project to
normal operation is eased and post-project continuity is assured. Phase II of the APL will have a
coordination unit with the MEHU.

Even small institutions need clearly defined budgets

The intervention package of letting the NDCs decide on local infrastructure priorities and
establishing a CISU in the municipalities to support and bring the poor neighborhoods into the
urban fabric worked relatively well from a process perspective, judging by the support given to
the communities. However, lack of equipment and maintenance of infrastructure shows clearly
that even small institutions like the CISUs need clearly defined and funded operational budgets.
The link between implementation of community micro-projects, beneficiary co-financing, and the
municipal budgeting process has to be strengthened to ensure equipment and maintenance of
works.

Staff turnover is a risk which should not be underestimated as it can significantly delay project
implementation

Capacity building during Phase I stalled temporarily when new local administrations were elected
and a high staff turnover occurred. This happened despite the commitment of staff to stay on for
the life of the project. Project design should take into account that decentralization, capacity
building, and institutional reorganizations are inherently processes of change which by their nature
foster staffing transitions. While measures to mitigate staff turnover should be put in place, project
design should be realistic in terms of the effect of such measures, and the project timeframe
should be adjusted accordingly.


                                                 - 18 -

Implementation of micro-projects require early and strong involvement of communities and direct
beneficiaries

As noted, the provision for maintenance of water kiosks and latrines was in some cases
insufficient. Some isolated works under Component 3 were not operational after construction
works had finished, as they were not provided with the electricity, water, and equipment
necessary for them to function. A lesson learned is the need to have strong commitments from
municipalities that all micro-projects, for which IDA funding is requested, will have their
operation and maintenance funded. Municipal commitment to community-based participation in
the financial, natural and/or physical aspects of project works is also necessary. Under Phase II of
the APL, Component 3 micro-projects will only be approved if the necessary provisions are made
for their proper functioning after construction and a program of capacity building of the NDCs
and the water kiosk managers will be set in place.

The APL instrument is particularly appropriate for projects with a capacity building component

One of the general strengths of the APL lies in continuity ­ encouraging long-term planning and
sustainable institution building. As reform and change are important parts of a decentralization
process, there has to be sufficient time to go through this process at a realistic pace. The APL is
suitable to this end, because the first phase can lay the institutional and capacity foundations for
subsequent phase(s). Moreover, if some activities cannot be financed under the first phase, the
APL offers the possibility of integrating those activities into the subsequent phase. Under this
Project for instance, the nine micro-projects from Phase I that are not fully functional because of
lack of financing shall be funded under Phase II.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Sub-objective 1: Municipal finance

Billed tax collection rate                    Cotonou = 75%                               Cotonou = 67%
                                              Porto-Novo = 40%                            Porto-Novo= 48%
                                              Parakou = 65%                               Parakou = 72%

Increased municipal resources                 Cotonou = 45%                               Cotonou = 82%
                                              Porto-Novo= 45%                             Porto-Novo= 148%
                                              Parakou = 45%                               Parakou = 131%

Share of budget spent on urban services       Cotonou = 85%                               Cotonou = 81%
                                              Porto-Novo = 75-80%                         Porto-Novo= 66%
                                              Parakou = 75-80%                            Parakou = 72%

Sub-objective 2: Living conditions and
commuting

Additional population protected from flooding Cotonou = 140,000                           Cotonou = 280,000
                                              Porto-Novo = 20,000                         Porto-Novo = 123,000

Population access to improved primary and     Cotonou = 40,000                            Cotonou = 66,000
secondary paved roads                         Porto-Novo = 20,000                         Porto-Novo=19,000
                                              (PAD projection of 10,000 households total)

Sub-objective 3: Replicable community
participation process

Low income neighborhoods benefitting from     5 low-income neighborhoods:                 Cotonou = 2
urban services                                Cotonou = 2                                 Porto Novo = 2
                                              Porto-Novo = 2                              Parakou = 1
                                              Parakou = 1


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1:


Computerized budget management system:        Implemented in the 3 CUs                    Implemented in the 3 CUs
implemented in the 3 CUs


Timely budget monitoring                      Budget monitored regularly.                 Budget monitored regularly


Local Finance Monitoring Unit in Ministry of  Fully operational                           Fully operational
Finance


Percentage of urban services contracted out 100%                                          100%
by CUs to private


Percentage of programmed routine              Cotonou = 100%                              Cotonou = 100%
maintenance implemented                       Porto-Novo = 100%                           Porto-Novo = 100%


Component 2:


Km of constructed and rehabilitated paved     Cotonou = 10.0 km                           Cotonou = 9.9 km
urban roads                                   Porto-Novo= 3.8 km                          Porto-Novo= 4.7 km




                                                               - 20 -

Km of primary drains built              Cotonou = 7.2 km                      Cotonou = 6.5 km
                                        Porto-Novo = 3.0 km                   Porto-Novo = 5.2 km


Percentage of works executed by local   Cotonou = 80%                         Cotonou = 100%
private contractors                     Porto-Novo = 80%                      Porto-Novo = 100%


Component 3:


Community assistance departments in CUs One unit in each CU established and   Operational for Parakou: partly operational for
                                        operational                           Cotonou and Porto-Novo


Number of sub-projects completed        Cotonou = 3                           Cotonou = 4
(sub-component C1 only)                 Porto-Novo = 2                        Porto-Novo = 3
                                        Parakou = 1                           Parakou = 1

1End of project




                                                         - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Component 1                                                  3.40             3.85            1.13
Component 2                                                 21.80           21.35             0.97
Component 3                                                  2.40             3.11              1.3
PPF                                                          0.70             0.54            0.77

Total Baseline Cost                                         28.30           28.85
                        Total Project Costs                 28.30           28.85
                  Total Financing Required                  28.30           28.85


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          7.29             12.55         0.00          0.00         19.84
                                  (6.33)          (10.82)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (17.15)
2. Goods                          0.36              0.53         0.00          0.00          0.89
                                  (0.36)           (0.50)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.86)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         5.12          0.00          5.12
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (5.12)          (0.00)       (5.12)
4. Neighborhood Projects          0.00              0.40         0.00          0.00          0.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.32)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.32)
5. Management Fees                0.00              0.00         1.35          0.00          1.35
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.35)          (0.00)       (1.35)
6. Refinancing of the PPF         0.00              0.00         0.70          0.00          0.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.70)          (0.00)       (0.70)
   Total                          7.65             13.48         7.17          0.00         28.30
                                  (6.69)          (11.64)      (7.17)          (0.00)       (25.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          12.20            10.68        0.00           0.00        22.88
                                 (10.49)          (8.97)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (19.46)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.39         0.12           0.00         0.51
                                  (0.00)          (0.33)       (0.09)         (0.00)       (0.42)
3. Services                       0.75             1.77         0.81           0.00         3.33
                                  (0.75)          (1.77)       (0.81)         (0.00)       (3.33)
4. Neighborhood Projects          0.00             0.12         0.11           0.00         0.23
                                  (0.00)          (0.08)       (0.07)         (0.00)       (0.15)


                                                - 22 -

  5. Management Fees                       0.00               0.00              1.36             0.00              1.36
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.35)            (0.00)           (1.35)
  6. Refinancing of the PPF                0.00               0.00              0.54             0.00              0.54
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.54)            (0.00)           (0.54)
      Total                                12.95             12.96              2.94             0.00             28.85
                                          (11.24)           (11.15)            (2.86)            (0.00)           (25.25)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Component 1                    3.40         0.00         0.00        3.70         0.15       0.00       108.8     0.0       0.0
Component 2                   19.20         2.05         0.55       18.34         2.41       0.60       95.5     117.6    109.1
Component 3                    2.20         0.20         0.00        2.67         0.44       0.00       121.4    220.0      0.0
PPF refinancing                0.70         0.00         0.00        0.54         0.00       0.00       77.1      0.0       0.0

  Cofinancing covers municipality and local community contribution




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

To determine net incremental costs and benefits, "with" and "without" project were considered.
On the basis of these scenarios, the net incremental financial benefits and costs of the proposed
investment programs were assessed. These were then adjusted for the impact of taxes, subsidies
and externalities to arrive at the economic cost and benefit streams. Cash flows were discounted
using a discount rate of 12%. Costs include capital costs, operation and maintenance costs, and
rehabilitation costs. The ex-post economic analysis was performed using The Roads Economic
Decision Model (RED). RED was developed under the Road Management Initiative (RMI), a
component of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP) aiming at improving
the decision-making process for the development and maintenance of low-volume roads. The
model performs an economic evaluation of road investments options using the consumer surplus
approach and is customized to the characteristics of low-volume roads such as a) the high
uncertainty of the assessment of the model inputs, particularly the traffic and condition of unpaved
roads; b) the importance of vehicle speeds for model validation; c) the need for a comprehensive
analysis of generated and induced traffic; and d) the need to clearly define all accrued benefits.
RED computes benefits for normal, generated, induced, and diverted traffic, and takes into
account changes in road length, conditions in the dry and wet seasons, geometry, surface type,
and accident rates. RED was used rather than HDM because of the type of investments (earth
roads into paved/gravel roads).

Data were taken from AGETUR which carried out new traffic counting in February 2005.

The PAD estimated that the internal rate of return for rehabilitation of urban roads would be
between 13% and 104% in Cotonou and between 12% and 34% in Porto-Novo, due to the
vehicle operating cost-savings derived from driving on paved roads. The analysis assumed that
paved roads would attract an increase of traffic of 5% to 7% in Cotonou and 5% in Porto-Novo.
In reality, traffic on roads paved under the project has risen by more than 11% in Cotonou and
10% in Porto-Novo, suggesting that benefits are much higher than first anticipated.

A detailed ex-post economic analysis, using The Roads Economic Decision Model (RED), was
undertaken for the main road sections where costs have been higher than estimated. Tables below
provide the summary of the analysis, showing that investments were still highly profitable, with
ERR varying from 31% to 290%. This high rate of return is mainly due to much higher than
anticipated traffic in Cotonou and Porto-Novo.

The overall IRR for the Component 2 of the project (which represents US$ 21.35 Million out of
US$ 28.85 Million, i.e. 74% of the total project) is far higher than 12%. Moreover, this level of
profitability does not reflect several other benefits of the project, such as: (i) the value of time
savings; (ii) the cost of congestion on existing roads that were relieved once the alternate roads
were paved, or (iii) the benefits derived from induced traffic on improved roads.

Ex-post economic analysis was not undertaken for investments made in neighborhood initiatives
(Component 3) and in capacity building (Component 1), due to the size of the many sub-projects
and the difficulty in quantifying benefits.



                                                - 24 -

Tables Summary. Results of the ex-post economic analysis

The tables below provide a summary of the ex-post economic analysis (performed using RED Model)
carried out on road sections where the increase of costs was the highest. This analysis shows that
investments were still highly profitable, with ERR varying from 31% to 290%. This high rate of return
is mainly due to a much higher-than-anticipated traffic in Cotonou and Porto-Novo.

Traffic counting was carried out in February 2005 for the purpose of the ICR's economic analysis

                                                               Basic Road Characteristics
                                                                                Normal Traffic (Dry Season)                  Car Speeds
                                                                                            Medium   Heavy  Total  Without Project   With Project
Road Road                                                 Length       Motorcycle    Car     Truck   Truck 4 wheel  Dry     Wet     Dry     Wet
Code Name                                                  (km)           (vpd)     (vpd)    (vpd)    (vpd) (vpd)  (km/hr) (km/hr) (km/hr) (km/hr)
PACK Adogléta / Carrefour Chez KIED                        1.63          27317      2281       8       8    2297     30      20      50      40
PCJA Capitaine Jean ADJOVI                                 0.80          13461      2658      91       6    2755     30      20      50      40
PHBC Pharmacie Houéyiho / PN OCBN Vodjè                    1.28          177343     5511     1172    107    6790     30      20      50      40
PHSC Carr Houéyiho / Coll Ste Cécile / Lune                2.00          11768      4704      336     22    5062     30      20      50      40
PMY Voie pavée Midombo / Voie pavée Yénawa                 2.20           7115      1605      547     11    2163     30      20      50      40
PPSA Pharmacie Ségbéya / Agbodjèdo                         1.20          26680      1608      294      3    1905     30      20      50      40
Total                                                      9.10
Average                                                                  43947      3061      408     26    3495     30      20      50      40
Traffic growth rate is 3% per year and generated and induced traffic are 9% of normal traffic




                               Cost Effectiveness Analysis
                                                                       Population Investment /
                                                        Population      Served /   Population
Road Road                                                 Served       Kilometer   Served
Code Name                                                (persons)    (persons/km) (US$/person)
PACK Adogléta / Carrefour Chez KIED                       8,910          5,483       159
PCJA Capitaine Jean ADJOVI                                3,785          4,731       172
PHBC Pharmacie Houéyiho / PN OCBN Vodjè                   1,918          1,503       612
PHSC Carr Houéyiho / Coll Ste Cécile / Lune               10,623         5,312       236
PMY Voie pavée Midombo / Voie pavée Yénawa                4,425          2,011       541
PPSA Pharmacie Ségbéya / Agbodjèdo                        8,573          7,144       176
Total                                                     38,235
Average                                                                  4,364       316



                                        Economic Analysis


                                                                                    NPV/ Rate of
Road Road                                                  Net Present Value      InvestmentReturn
Code Name                                              (M FCFA) (M US$)             (ratio)   (%)
PACK Adogléta / Carrefour Chez KIED                       1,840             4         2.6    56%
PCJA Capitaine Jean ADJOVI                                 660              1         2.0    47%
PHBC Pharmacie Houéyiho / PN OCBN Vodjè                   10,495           21        17.9    290%
PHSC Carr Houéyiho / Coll Ste Cécile / Lune               2,464             5         2.0    46%
PMY Voie pavée Midombo / Voie pavée Yénawa                1,255             3         1.0    31%
PPSA Pharmacie Ségbéya / Agbodjèdo                        1,192             2         1.6    40%
Total                                                     17,905           36                73%
Average                                                                               4.5




                                                                    - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/1998                   1    URBAN SPECIALIST



 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/1998                   2    URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                                             URBAN FINANCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              02/1999                   4    URBAN SPECIALISTS (2);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             URBAN FINANCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              12/13/1999                1    URBAN SPECIALIST (1)             U               S
              04/01/2000                1    URBAN SPECIALIST (1)             HS              S
              10/18/2000                1    URBAN SPECIALIST (1)             HS              S


              06/22/2001                1    URBAN SPECIALIST (1)             HS             HS
              12/07/2001                3    URBAN SPECIALISTS (2);           HS             HS
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1)
              11/01/2002                5    SR. URBAN SPECIALIST (1));       HS             HS
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             SR. FINANCIAL MGT SPEC
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
                                                                                              S
              03/07/2003                     URBAN PLANNER (1);               HS             HS
                                             URBAN FINANCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1); URBAN
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1).
              11/14/2003                9    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               S
                                             MUNICIPAL FINANCE SPEC
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENTS SPEC.
                                             (1); FIN. MGMT. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); INFRASTRUCTURE ENG.
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (2);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)

 ICR
              11/19/2004                7     URBAN PLANNER (1);              S               S



                                              - 26 -

                                            FINANCE SPECIALIST
                                            (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                            ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                            DEVELOPMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONS
                                            ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            13.4                      56,525.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 35.5                     174,502.44
  Supervision                          82.36                     193,600.00
  ICR                                      7                      31,567.41
  Total                              138.26                      456,194.85




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Aide memoire for Identification/Preparation mission in April and December 1998
- Aide memoire for Pre-Appraisal and Appraisal mission in February 1999
- Aide memoire for supervision mission in December 1999
- Aide memoire for supervision mission in April 2000
- Aide memoire for supervision mission in October 2000
- Aide memoire for supervision mission in June 2001
- Aide memoire for supervision mission in December 2001
- Aide memoire for supervision mission in November 2002
- Aide memoire for Mid-term-review mission in March 2003
- Aide memoire for supervision mission in November 2003
- Aide memoire for completion mission in November 2004

- Trimestrial activity reports from Executing Agencies (AGETUR and SERHAU)

- QAG Quality at Entry Report
- QAG Quality of Supervision Report

- Borrower's Implementation Completion Report




                                                  - 30 -

        Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution



                           PROJET DE GESTION URBAINE DECENTRALISEE

                        RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE LA PREMIERE PHASE


I.      PRESENTATION DU PROJET

La première phase du Projet de Gestion Urbaine Décentralisée (PGUD) a fait l'objet de l'accord de crédit de
développement 3234 BEN entre l'IDA et le Bénin et des accords de projet signés entre l'IDA et l'AGETUR-SA d'une
part, l'IDA et la SERHAU-SA d'autre part. Le projet a été mis en vigueur le 28 mars 2000. La date de clôture
initialement fixée au 30 mars 2003 a été prorogée au 31 janvier 2004 puis au 30 septembre 2004. Le projet a été
co-financé par l'IDA à hauteur de 16 065 000 000 F CFA dont
11 000 000 000 FCFA au titre des travaux d'infrastructures et d'équipements; par l'AFD à hauteur de 2 961 300 000 F
CFA au titre des travaux d'infrastructures; par le Gouvernement béninois à hauteur de 1 415 450 000 F CFA dont 1 365
036 000 F CFA au titre de travaux d'infrastructures et d'équipement; et par             les Circonscriptions Urbaines et les
populations bénéficiaires pour un montant de 231 118 000 F CFA.


1.1. Objectifs du projet

Le Projet de Gestion Urbaine Décentralisée (PGUD) s'inscrit dans le cadre de la consolidation des acquis du Projet de
Réhabilitation et de Gestion Urbaine (PRGU). L'objectif principal du PGUD est d'améliorer de façon durable le niveau et
la qualité des services urbains rendus aux populations dans les trois principales villes du Bénin en général (Cotonou,
Porto-Novo et Parakou), et en particulier aux habitants des quartiers défavorisés et sous-équipés de ces villes dans les
domaines de la circulation, de l'assainissement et de l'entretien des infrastructures urbaines.

1.2. Description du Projet

Le Projet est décliné en trois composantes A, B et C. Les activités du projet sont réparties comme suit par composante :

Composante A : Renforcement des Capacités de Gestion Municipale

-       Renforcement des capacités de gestion des Communes de Cotonou, Porto-Novo et Parakou, et des capacités du
MISD, du MEHU et du MFE au moyen de services, conseils techniques, ateliers de formation, séminaires et acquisition de
matériel de bureau ;
-       Mise en place d'un système local de communication et d'information entre les différents services de l'Etat chargé
des finances locales et les services financiers des Communes ;
-       Réforme du cadre réglementaire de la gestion urbaine (droits de propriété et finalisation des textes d'urbanisme
réglementaires).

Composante B : Réhabilitation et Construction d'Infrastructures Prioritaires

-       Réhabilitation de voirie urbaine,
-       Construction de réseaux de drainage primaire,
-       Etudes d'ingénierie et de supervision
-       Assistance au secteur des PME du BTP

Composante C : Participation et Intégration Communautaires




                                                                - 31 -

  -      Constructions d'équipements socio-économiques
  -      Mise en place des SAICs
  -      Mise en oeuvre des activités communautaires
  -      Soutien en faveur des activités communautaires.
  -      Construction et Réhabilitation des Infrastructures de base, dans les quartiers pilotes : Ahouansori et Yénawa
  (Cotonou), Tokpota et Djègan Daho (Porto-Novo), Alaga,/ Camp Adagbè (Parakou).

  1.3. Montage institutionnel

  Le montage institutionnel du projet comprend :

              § Auniveaunational : LeComitéInterministérieldeSuivi,deCoordinationetd'Orientation(CISCO)créé
              par Décret n°99-164 du 8 Avril 1999 et composé de :
              -     Président          : MEHU
              -     Vice-président     : MISAT (MISD)
                    -        Membres             : Les Ministres ci-après ou leur représentant : i) le Ministre des Finances et de
                    l'Economie, ii) le Ministre du Plan , iii) le Ministre des Travaux Publics et des Transports, iv) le Ministre
                    de la Fonction Publique du Travail et de la Réforme Administrative, v) le Ministre de la Santé Publique,
                    vi) le Ministre de l'Energie des Mines et de l'Hydraulique représenté par la DG/SBEE, vii) le Ministre de
                    la Culture et de la Communication représenté par le DG/OPT, viii) un représentant du Chef de l'Etat, ix)
                    le Secrétariat Technique de la Commission Nationale de Suivi et d'application du PAS, x) le DG/ABE ,
                    les Chefs des Circonscriptions Urbaines de Cotonou, Parakou, Cotonou, xi) le représentant de
                    l'Association Béninoise de Gestion Urbaine, xii) le représentant de l'Association nationale des entreprises
                    de construction et assimilés (ANECA), xiii) le représentant de la société civile xiv) le représentant de la
                    CAA.

                    Le CISCO dispose d'un Secrétariat Permanent dont le président est le DPP/MEHU, le vice-président est le
                    DPP/MISD et d'un secrétariat technique assuré par la SERHAU-SA.

                    §        Au niveau local : Un Comité Local de Suivi a été mis en place par chaque commune pour le
                    suivi des activités à réaliser dans les communes. Le Président de ce Comité Local est le Secrétaire Général
                    de la commune, responsable de la coordination du projet. Il est assisté dans sa mission de coordination par
                    le Directeur des Services Techniques, le chef du Bureau des affaires financières, le Service d'Appui aux
                    Initiatives Communautaires (SAIC) et est composé de la Direction Départementale de l'Environnement de
                    l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme, de la Direction Départementale des Impôts, du Receveur-Percepteur, des
                    Comités de Développement des Quartiers etc..


                    §        Organes d'exécution          : La SERHAU-SA et l'AGETUR-SA

II. CONCEPTION DU PROJET

Le projet dans sa conception a parfaitement intégré les objectifs que s'est fixé le gouvernement dans son programme
d'actions, notamment en ce qui concerne la lutte contre le chômage et le sous-emploi, le développement de l'entreprenariat
des jeunes, le soutien aux actions des collectivités locales à travers le renforcement de leurs capacités, la protection de
l'environnement.

Un autre mérite du projet est également d'avoir intégré au niveau de sa conception la lutte contre la pauvreté grâce à la
pédagogie de l'approche de développement participatif impulsée au niveau des communautés vivant dans les quartiers
pauvres et défavorisés ; ce qui leur a donné l'occasion de participer pleinement à l'élaboration et au démarrage de
l'application des Plans de Développement des quartiers en réponse aux besoins identifiés avec l'encadrement et l'appui d'un
dispositif institutionnel (ONG DCAM, SAIC, CDQ) également conçu et mis en oeuvre dans le cadre du projet et répliqué
dans d'autres quartiers et autres villes du pays.



                                                                    - 32 -

III. EXECUTION DU PROJET


Le programme général d'activités de la période 2000-2004 a été établi de commun accord avec le MEHU et les partenaires
impliqués dans le financement du PGUD et a fait l'objet de Conventions Particulières entre l'Etat, les villes et les agences
d'exécution (AGETUR-SA et SERHAU-SA). Le pilotage du Projet a été assuré par le Ministère de l'Environnement, de
l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme et le CISCO.

3.1. Exécution physique

  3.1.1. COMPOSANTE A « APPUI INSTITUTIONNEL ­ AMELIORATION DE LA CAPACITE DE GESTION
  DES COMMUNES ET DE L'ADMINISTRATION CENTRALE »

  Les différentes études réalisées au titre de la composante A sont :

  §      étude socio-économique de référence de définition des indicateurs de mesure des services urbains offerts par les
  circonscriptions urbaines (futures communes) aux populations ;
  §      amélioration des recettes fiscales (TPU, TFU, patentes et licences) ­ appui aux DDIs
  §      suivi des recettes et des dépenses des Cus ;
  §      amélioration des recettes propres des Cus ;
  §      revue des comptes 2000 et suivi de l'exécution du budget 2001 des Cus ;
  §      entretien des infrastructures urbaines et programmation des travaux neufs ;
  §      audit organisationnel et institutionnel du MEHU ;
  §      mise en place de la stratégie de communication du MEHU ;
  §      étude sur la stratégie urbaine du Bénin ;
  §      appui au renforcement des capacités du service des collectivités locales (SCL/DGTCP/MFE) ;
  §      mise en place d'un système de gestion de l'information technique et financière du PGUD (LACI) ;
  §      réhabilitation du patrimoine historique de Porto-Novo ;
  §      revue des comptes de l'exercice 2001 des communes ;
  §      Etude organisationnelle des communes ;
  §      Gestion des ordures ménagères ;

  Autres réalisations de la Composante A

  Equipement
  Le Projet a acquis et mis à la disposition des différentes structures bénéficiaires au niveau des services de l'Etat et des
  Communes des équipements : matériel roulant (véhicules et motos), matériel informatique (postes complets)
  photocopieurs, matériel de communication.

  Formation
  Le PGUD a assuré le financement de la formation des cadres des différentes structures/administrations impliquées (MISD,
  MEHU, MFE, Communes concernées, SERHAU-SA, AGETUR-SA etc.) sur différents thèmes. Des ateliers techniques et
  séminaires locaux de formation ont été également organisés.

   Mise en place d'un programme de communication sur le PGUD en partenariat avec la presse écrite et les radios
  privées de proximité dans les trois villes concernées par le Projet.

  Les outils mis en place et les recommandations formulées à l'endroit des communes dans le cadre des études réalisées lors
  de la première phase du projet et les formations organisées au profit des chefs des Communes Urbaines et des cadres ont
  doté les communes des compétences nécessaires qui leur ont permis de réaliser les performances escomptées au niveau de
  l'amélioration et de la gestion des ressources financières desdites villes. Des améliorations ont été notées au niveau de
  l'évolution des taux d'émission et de recouvrement des ressources fiscales, des dépenses utiles, du suivi et de la gestion



                                                                  - 33 -

comptable des ressources. Une synergie a été développée entre les services déconcentrés de l'état (DDI, Recette -
Perception) et les services financiers des communes pour l'amélioration de la gestion des ressources financières et la tenue
des pièces comptables.

Les Directions des Services Techniques (DST) ont renforcé leurs compétences pour le développement et la gestion des
infrastructures mises en place.

3.1. 2 COMPOSANTE B : «REHABILITATION ET CONSTRUCTION D'INFRASTRUCTURES
PRIORITAIRES»

Les activités prévues dans le cadre de cette composante ont été entièrement exécutées. Il s'agit essentiellement des travaux
de construction de voies et d'ouvrages de drainage à Cotonou, Parakou et Porto-Novo. Au total environ 22,2 km de voies
revêtues ont été construites dans les villes de Cotonou, Porto-Novo et Parakou et 11,8 km de collecteurs primaires ont été
réalisés à Cotonou et Porto-Novo. Le détail des réalisations est résumé en annexe 1.

3.1.3 COMPOSANTE C : «PARTICIPATION ET INTEGRATION COMMUNAUTAIRES»

Les activités réalisées ont permis de renforcer les capacités d'initiatives et d'organisation des communautés à la base et de
développer les capacités de réponse des Communes aux demandes et aux initiatives des communautés à la base à travers
l'ONG DCAM/BETHESDA, les SAICs (Services d'Appui aux Initiatives Communautaires) mis en place par le projet et
les Comités de Développement des Quartiers (CDQ).
Cette composante a également permis d'améliorer le cadre de vie des quartiers défavorisés retenus à savoir : Ahouansori et
Yénawa (Cotonou), Tokpota et Djègan Daho (Porto-Novo), Alaga / Camp Adagbè (Parakou) qui étaient caractérisés au
démarrage du projet par un environnement urbain précaire, un accès difficile aux services urbains et aux infrastructures
socio-communautaires, et de mauvaises conditions socio sanitaires. Elle a en outre permis de réaliser des micros - projets
et de développer la micro-finance

Les activités réalisées dans le cadre de la composante C et qui font partie des principaux acquis du projet sont :

§       Le recrutement de l'ONG DCAM/BETHESDA chargée d'apporter son assistance au Projet et aux communes dans
le cadre du renforcement des capacités d'initiative et d'organisation des communautés de résidents des quartiers cibles du
Projet ;
§       La mise en place dans les trois villes des Services d'Appui aux Initiatives Communautaires (SAIC) qui sont
entièrement opérationnels. Ces services assurent avec l'appui de l'ONG DCAM le développement des capacités des
communes à satisfaire les besoins de services urbains et soutenir les initiatives des communautés à la base ;
§       La réalisation d'une étude d'identification du programme urbain de lutte contre le SIDA et la tenue par ville d'un
atelier de planification des actions de lutte contre le SIDA ;
§       La mise en place des Comités de Développement des Quartiers (CDQ) dans tous les quartiers ;
§       L'élaboration d'un plan de développement de quartier (PDQ) par les CDQ validé et publié qui intègre les micro
projets confirmés par les communautés ;
§       La mobilisation des parts locales dans chacun des quartiers (Yénawa 168, Ahouansori 709, Alaga 196, Djègan
Daho 304, Tokpota 263 ) ;
§       L'appui à la pré- collecte des ordures ménagères et le reboisement d'écoles dans les quartiers ;
§       Le renforcement des capacités des CDQ à travers des visites d'échanges et l'organisation des ateliers de formation
sur : le développement communautaire, la bonne gouvernance locale, la gestion des déchets solides et ménagers, la
gestion des kiosques à eau ;
§       La réalisation des actions d'information et de sensibilisation et un film documentaire sur l'accès à l'eau potable
pour susciter l'adhésion des populations au processus, améliorer la salubrité publique, capitaliser et diffuser les acquis du
projet ;
§       Le financement par les villes de Cotonou, Porto-Novo et de Parakou sur la ligne budgétaire SAIC, de la
construction
          d'infrastructures socio-communautaires ;
·       La réalisation des équipements socio collectifs ( C1) à savoir : la réhabilitation et la construction des salles de
classes à Ladji et Vossa à Ahouansori ; la construction d'un centre de développement communautaire,d'un module de
classes et la réalisation d'une clôture de 250m et d'un groupe de latrines à Alaga; la construction d'un marché à Djègan



                                                                - 34 -

Daho ainsi qu'un centre de développement communautaire, d'un centre de développement communautaire et d'un
marché et d'un centre communautaire de santé à Tokpota ; la construction d'un centre communautaire de santé d'un
marché et d'un centre de développement communautaire à Yénawa.

Le Programme d'Epargne Crédits à Base Communautaire (PEBCO) de l'ONG DCAM BETHESDA a octroyé
143.577.500 F CFA de crédits à 21 groupements et coopératives de femmes, de jeunes et à plusieurs promoteurs privés
pour accompagner les activités génératrices de revenus dans les quartiers PGUD.

Le détail des réalisations des infrastructures au titre de la composante C est résumé en annexe 2.

3.2 EXECUTION FINANCIERE

Consolidation de tous les financements (SERHAU-SA / AGETUR-SA)

La situation consolidée des comptes SERHAU-SA / AGETUR au 30 septembre 2004 et relative à tous les
financements se présente dans le tableau ci-après :

Désignation           IDA             AFD            Budget          Ville        Ville        Ville          Total
       s                                             National      Cotonou      Porto-No    Parakou
                                                                                    vo
   Montant      12 604 228 000    3 017 402 000    1 175 356 000   220 707 856  162 745 947 149 388 000   18 679 827 803
    éligible
Engagements     16 405 964 479    3 045 823 227    1 819 046 203   206 747 475  156 140 759 145 429 954   23 056 271 360
     Taux           130 %            101 %            155 %          94 %         96 %         97 %           123 %
d'engagemen
       t
Décaissemen     15 964 913 753    2 994 292 123    1 694 343 475   187 891 475  128 691 341 115 363 125   22 362 615 014
       ts
   Taux de          127 %             99 %            144 %          85 %         79 %         77 %           120 %
décaissement


Les dépassements observés sont dus au renchérissement des coûts des matériaux de construction nécessitant ainsi des
ressources supplémentaires.

IV. PERFORMANCE DES ACTEURS

A)      A la conception du projet

4. A.1.- l'Etat central

L'Etat central ( le MEHU,le MISD,et le MFE ) a contribué à la préparation de la phase préparatoire de mai à novembre
1998 jusqu'à la validation des rapports des études préalables et des documents du projet. Il a ensuite participé à la mission
d'évaluation qui a débouché sur les négociations et la signature de l'accord de crédit le 1er juillet 1999 à Washington. Cet
accord a été introduit à l'Assemblée Nationale par le Gouvernement qui a présenté et soutenu le projet. L'accord a été
ratifié le 20 décembre 1999 par l'Assemblée Nationale et le Gouvernement a entrepris la vulgarisation du projet en
organisant des cérémonies de lancement à Parakou et Porto-Novo et un atelier technique à Ouidah.

4. A.3- Les Agences

Les Agences ont également contribué à la phase préparatoire de mai à novembre 1998. Elles ont conduit chacune en ce qui
la concerne, les différentes études préalables jusqu'à la validation des rapports et ont élaboré les documents de
planification du projet. Elles ont participé au processus qui a débouché sur la signature de l'accord de crédit et ont assisté
le Gouvernement à entreprendre la vulgarisation du projet dans les villes concernées.




                                                                 - 35 -

B     A l'exécution du projet

4. B.1.-L'Etat central :         L'Etat central s'est acquitté des engagements pris lors de la signature de l'accord de crédit.
Il a suivi la mise en oeuvre du projet à travers les compte rendus périodiques du niveau d'exécution qui sont faits par le
CISCO au Conseil des Ministres qui notifie en retour ses recommandations aux différentes structures impliquées pour
mise en oeuvre chacune en ce qui la concerne.

On peut citer entre autres performances de l'Etat central les points suivants :
-la contribution du budget national à hauteur de 10% au financement des travaux d'équipements et d'infrastructures
retenus dans le Projet a été régulièrement assurée. Toutefois, au démarrage du projet, quelques difficultés sont apparues, et
ont été vite aplanies grâce aux concertations entre les Agences d'exécution, le Ministère de l'Environnement, de l'Habitat
et de l'Urbanisme, le Ministère de l'Intérieur, de la Sécurité et de la Décentralisation et le Ministère des Finances et de
l'Economie ;

-la mise à disposition régulière des trois circonscriptions urbaines, devenues communes à statut particulier à la suite de la
décentralisation, des produits de la taxe de voirie;

-la mobilisation des ressources fiscales locales par les services compétents du Ministère des Finances et de l'Economie et
leur    mise à disposition régulière des Communes;

-la Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) a joué une grande partition au cours de cette première phase en traitant
avec beaucoup de célérité les demandes de réapprovisionnement des comptes.

-le Ministère des Finances et de l'Economie a toujours apporté un appui aux communes dans la préparation et l'exécution
de leurs Budgets. De même il a toujours veillé en relation avec le Ministère de l'Intérieur, de la Sécurité et de la
Décentralisation et celui de l'Environnement, de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme, au respect des ratios et repères budgétaires
retenus lors de l'examen et de l'approbation des budgets des Communes.

Les difficultés majeures enregistrées au niveau de l'administration centrale concernent les retards de payement de certains
bureaux d'études et entreprises, au démarrage du projet, liés à la libération tardive de la contrepartie du budget national et
des communes. Il est aussi à noter l'insuffisance de renforcement des capacités de l'administration centrale et un manque
de capitalisation des acquis du projet par l'administration sur le plan de la coordination technique, du savoir faire et de
l'archivage des documents générés. Cette situation est due aux difficultés de collaboration entre l'agence de maîtrise
d'ouvrage déléguée chargée de la coordination technique et la structure technique compétente de l'Administration.


4. B.2- Le Comité Interministériel de Suivi, de Coordination et d'Orientation (CISCO)


Depuis la création du CISCO et particulièrement la signature et l'entrée en vigueur de l'Accord de Crédit 3234-BEN sur
le Projet de Gestion Urbaine Décentralisée, le CISCO a tenu régulièrement ses réunions. Ces sessions ont permis
conformément à sa mission (i) d'examiner les rapports d'activités des agences d'exécution et des comités locaux, (ii) de
prendre en compte des mesures institutionnelles nécessaires pour l'exécution du Projet, (iii) de suivre la mise en oeuvre des
mesures contenues dans les conventions de chacune des villes avec l'Etat, (iv) d'apprécier le rapport d'évaluation de la
première phase (v) de dresser le compte rendu périodique du niveau d'exécution du projet au Conseil des Ministres et de
notifier en retour aux différentes structures impliquées les recommandations du Conseil des Ministres, (vi) d'apprécier les
difficultés liées à l'exécution du projet et de préconiser en retour des solutions.

Le Secrétariat Permanent du CISCO a tenu des réunions de contrôle de l'exécution des recommandations issues des
réunions du CISCO. Il a assuré la préparation des communications rendant compte des réunions du CISCO au Conseil des
Ministres de l'état d'avancement du Projet.

Au niveau des Communes, les Comités Locaux de Suivi ont régulièrement tenu des réunions au niveau local avec tous les
acteurs concernés par le projet pour la mise en oeuvre des tâches et recommandations issues des sessions du CISCO.

Toutefois, certaines difficultés ont été observées et concernent surtout la mise en oeuvre des conclusions de certaines
études. Le CISCO n'a pu rien faire pour renverser la tendance.

                                                                  - 36 -

4. B.3- Performances des communes

Les performances des communes sont appréciées à travers (i) la régularité des réunions au niveau local tenues par les
comités locaux de suivi (ii) la capacité d'intervention des services municipaux (iii) et le respect des indicateurs de
performance fixés par le projet

En effet, les villes ont fait des progrès sensibles pour l'amélioration des recettes fiscales en passant de 2,636 milliards en
2000 soit un taux de réalisation de 64,7 % à 4,1139 milliards au 30 septembre 2004 soit un taux de réalisation de 64,44%
à Cotonou ; de 192,4 millions en 2000 soit un taux de réalisation de 52,8% à 222,79 millions au 30 septembre 2004 soit
un taux de réalisation de 52,59%à Porto-Novo ; et de 194,20millions soit un taux de réalisation de 63,70 en 2000 à
224,02millions au 30 septembre 2004 soit un taux de réalisation de 49, 79%. Cependant les résultats atteints sont encore
perfectibles et les efforts entrepris doivent être poursuivis pour la consolidation des recettes fiscales.
Les réalisations se présentent comme indiquées dans les tableaux en annexe 3.
Les efforts consentis par les villes pour la réduction des dépenses de fonctionnement ont permis d'améliorer le niveau des
dépenses des services utiles rendus aux populations. Ces dépenses de service utiles sont passées de 3,101milliards en 2000
à Cotonou à 4964,73 milliards au 30-09-2004 ; de 338,197 millions en 2000 à Parakou à 557,988 millions au 30-09-2004
; et de 487,308 millions en 2000 à Porto-Novo à 799,853 millions au 30-09-2004. Ces évolutions montrent l'effort global
fait par les trois villes en matière de services rendus à la population.
Les indicateurs des dépenses utiles retenus au démarrage du projet avec les villes étaient de 85% pour Cotonou et 80%
pour Porto-Novo et Parakou. A la clôture du projet au 30-09-2004, les villes ont atteint les niveaux suivants : 81,01% pour
Cotonou 65,49% pour Porto-Novo, et 72,34% pour Parakou.

La mise en place effective des autorités élues en 2003 et leur souci de disposer d'une équipe municipale de qualité a eu des
incidences sur les dépenses de fonctionnement et n'ont pas permis au trois villes d'atteindre les indicateurs de
performance en dépenses utiles en 2003 et au 30 septembre 2004. Dans ce cadre, certaines mairies ont déjà exprimé le
souhait de la révision de cet indicateur.

Malgré ces efforts accomplis par les communes on peut noter des points d'ombre et qui concernent (i) la mobilité des
cadres dont la capacité technique a été renforcée dans le cadre du projet,ce qui a conduit à une baisse relative de
performance la première année qui a suivi l'installation des nouveaux élus (ii) La non réalisation de certains micro-projets
due à la non disponibilité de sites viables ou à leur accessibilité (iii) la lenteur dans l'appropriation et la prise en charge
effective des acquis de la composante C1 par certaines communes en vue de leur mise en service et de leur pérennisation.

4. B.4. Performance des deux Agences d'exécution

4.B.4.1    La SERHAU-SA

La Société d'Etudes Régionales d'Habitat et d'Aménagement Urbain - Société Anonyme (SERHAU-SA) a signé avec la
République du Bénin, par contrat n°015/2000/MEHU/DG/SG/DU du 12 janvier 2000, une convention particulière de
maîtrise d'ouvrage déléguée pour l'exécution des activités (études, travaux, matériels, équipements, fournitures et
formation) au titre de la première phase du Projet, en ses composantes A et C, selon les procédures définies dans le
manuel d'exécution du projet. La SERHAU-SA a exécuté avec satisfaction toutes les activités prévues au titre de cette
convention et pour la plupart de ces activités ,les procédures de passation de marché ont été respectées notamment : la
préparation des termes de référence et la constitution des short lists des consultations, la préparation des dossiers d'appels
d'offres, le suivi et la relance en cas de besoin pour l'obtention des avis de non objection de la Banque dans le délai
imparti, la mise en place de la commission d'évaluation technique et de celle des marchés, l'organisation des séances de
négociation et passation des marchés dès avis de non objection de l'IDA, le lancement et le suivi des études, la
transmission des rapports d'étape à l'IDA à bonne date en général,              l'élaboration et la transmission des rapports
d'exécution trimestriels du projet à tous les acteurs IDA, MEHU, MFE, communes etc...

Par ailleurs, la SERHAU-SA a régulièrement : organisé les réunions de CISCO et les missions de supervision, mis en
exécution en ce qui la concerne, les recommandations issues des aides mémoires de l'IDA, de celles du CISCO et des
ateliers de validation, suivi les communes en vue du respect des critères de performances, tenu plusieurs séances de
travail sur les indicateurs dans les trois communes ainsi que sur les acquis du projet et les mesures à prendre pour leur


                                                                 - 37 -

pérennisation.

Les seuils des marchés prévus pour la revue a priori et a posteriori de l'IDA ont été également respectés. Enfin, il faut
noter que les fonds alloués au projet sont gérés de manière efficace et transparente conformément aux résultats des audits
financiers effectués depuis l'année 2000.

En outre, la SERHAU-SA a assuré la gestion administrative et financière de tous ces marchés, conformément aux
dispositions et modalités de l'accord de crédit.

En ce qui concerne le règlement des prestations de consultants, on note une bonne performance avec un délai moyen de
certification des études de 11 jours et de 3 jours pour le règlement des factures de prestations de consultants. La
coordination et le suivi des études par la SERHAU-SA ont contribué au renforcement des capacités de gestion des
communes, notamment dans le domaine de la mobilisation des ressources, de la gestion financière et de l'organisation des
services. La mise en oeuvre de certaines recommandations opérationnelles des différentes études réalisées, les ateliers de
formation et les outils de gestion mis en place ont permis une amélioration significative des performances de gestion des
communes.

En tant que Secrétariat Technique du CISCO (cf article 9 du décret N° 99-164 du 8 avril 1999 portant organisation et
fonctionnement du CISCO), la SERHAU-SA a apporté un appui technique au Secrétariat Permanent du CISCO dans
l'exécution de sa mission notamment par (i) la présentation des rapports d'études et de travaux au Président du CISCO
pour adoption et transmission au MEHU, MISD et MFE ainsi qu'à l'IDA et à l'AFD pour approbation (ii) la préparation
et la présentation au président du CISCO des projets de compte-rendu et de communication à soumettre en conseil des
Ministres et faisant état des recommandations issues du CISCO, (iii) et le suivi de la mise en oeuvre des recommandations
issues des communications adoptées par le Conseil des Ministres.

Même si les missions de maîtrise d'ouvrage déléguée confiées par la République du Bénin à la SERHAU-SA sont dans
leur ensemble bien exécutées, la revue indépendante de la passation des marchés a révélé des insuffisances qu'il est
important de corriger. Toutefois quelques recommandations ont été faites à l'issue de la revue indépendante des
procédures de passation de marché de mai 2004. Ces recommandations exigent entre autres d'améliorer l'organisation
interne de la SERHAU-SA, de respecter les clauses de l'accord de crédit en matière de choix des méthodes de
passation des marchés et de revue a priori, d'éviter la négociation des prix après ouverture des offres, d'élaborer un
plan de passation de marchés et le mettre à jour régulièrement et d'organiser l'archivage des dossiers de passation des
marchés. Un plan d'actions est en cours de mise en oeuvre pour l'amélioration des prestations de l'Agence.


 4.B.4.2    L'AGETUR-SA

L'Agence d'Exécution des Travaux Urbains (AGETUR-SA) a signé le 12 janvier 2000, avec la République du Bénin, une
convention cadre au titre de l'exécution du Projet de Gestion Urbaine Décentralisée pour assurer la conduite des
opérations des composantes B et C1 pour des travaux dont le montant est supérieur à 30 000$.

Cette convention cadre a ensuite été complétée par des conventions particulières passées entre l'AGETUR-SA et les CUs
de Cotonou, Porto-Novo et Parakou, à l'occasion des programmes annuels approuvés par la République du Bénin.

 La conduite des opérations impliquait notamment : i) la sélection des maîtres d'oeuvre pour la supervision des études
techniques détaillées ; ii) la préparation et le lancement des appels d'offres et des consultations restreintes ; iii)
l'évaluation des offres et l'attribution des marchés ; iv) la signature des marchés et la conduite des opérations ; v) le
contrôle et la réception des travaux et vi) le règlement des décomptes des entreprises et des factures des fournisseurs.

La gouvernance du Projet par l'AGETUR-SA est conforme au cadre institutionnel et réglementaire mis en place. Un
respect des procédures a permis de garantir le succès à la réalisation de ces travaux. Les délais entre le lancement des
appels d'offres et la passation des marchés ont été de l'ordre de quatre (4) mois.

De la préparation à l'attribution des marchés


                                                                - 38 -

La gestion des procédures des études techniques et des travaux proprement dits par l'AGETUR-SA s'est strictement
conformée au manuel d'exécution du Projet. Les dossiers de consultation et les listes des bureaux d'études ont été
systématiquement transmis à la Banque Mondiale et les consultations n'ont été lancées qu'après avis de non objection de
cette dernière.

Le dépouillement et l'attribution se sont déroulés avec la participation des représentants des structures de l'Etat et des
villes. Les règles observées au cours de ces opérations sont celles recommandées par les Instructions aux
Soumissionnaires. La durée entre le lancement des consultations et la signature des marchés (avis du bailleurs compris)
varie entre 3 et 5 mois. Même si ce délai est globalement satisfaisant, il peut être logiquement réduit autour de 90 jours.


Du contrôle et de la réception des travaux

L'exécution des marchés et les modalités de surveillance ont été réalisées conformément aux dispositions techniques en
vigueur et au regard des conventions particulières signées par l'AGETUR-SA et les Communes de Cotonou et Porto-Novo
et Parakou.
Les études d'impact environnemental simplifiées ont toutes été réalisées. Elles ont toujours donné lieu à un plan de
limitation. Globalement, l'exécution des travaux n'a pas présenté de perturbations majeures. Les caractéristiques
techniques des ouvrages étudiés ont été conformes aux prescriptions des termes de référence et les travaux ont été
généralement lancés dans de bonnes conditions.
Les aménagements paysagers prévus ont été réalisés.
La totalité des opérations de la composante B est achevée. La plupart des travaux ont connu une évolution normale,
quelques uns par contre ont connu des retards auxquels des pénalités ont été appliquées.
Les travaux de voirie financés par l'AFD ont dégagé des reliquats qui ont permis de réaliser quelques travaux
supplémentaires. La surveillance des travaux a été assurée par des bureaux dont les performances n'ont pas été mises en
cause. L'assistance du CNERTP a permis d'assurer la qualité des ouvrages. Tous les tests techniques ont été conformes
aux normes. Certes, quelques reprises ont été nécessaires à certains endroits, notamment le compactage des terrassements.
La sécurité des chantiers a été bonne.

Ce processus de contrôle a permis à l'AGETUR-SA de bénéficier d'un suivi de l'exécution des travaux. Les travaux
exécutés présentent un aspect globalement satisfaisants.

De la gestion financière des composantes

Le traitement des décomptes a été très diligent: en moyenne 15 jours pour le mandatement.
Dans l'ensemble, l'essentiel des travaux prévus a été réalisé. Il faut noter que les coûts d'objectifs des marchés ont été
respectés dans la plupart des cas.

Les délais moyens des procédures de passation des marchés sont raisonnables au regard des indicateurs contenus dans les
documents du projet. (Elaboration des DC, Evaluation des offres, Attribution des marchés et Signature des contrats). En ce
qui concerne le règlement des fournisseurs, on note une bonne performance avec un délai moyen d'approbation des
décomptes qui ne dépasse pas 48 heures. Cependant, le délai moyen de paiement effectif est de 27 jours et prend en
compte la ré-alimentation des comptes du projet.

Les procédures de passation des marchés sont respectées dans l'ensemble, les organes d'évaluation et d'attribution des
marchés mis en place par l'AGETUR-SA ont fonctionné normalement avec la tenue des séances régulières impliquant les
services des communes et les autres acteurs concernés par la composante du projet, etc. Les seuils de marchés prévus pour
la revue à priori et à posteriori de l'IDA ont été également respectés.

Enfin, les fonds alloués au projet sont gérés de manière efficace et transparente avec les audits financiers et techniques
réguliers depuis l'année 2000.

d) Du renforcement des capacités des bénéficiaires du projet

Dans le cadre de l'exécution de ses activités, l'AGETUR-SA a contribué à faciliter l'accès des PME aux marchés de
travaux et au renforcement de leurs capacités de gestion. Elle a également contribué au renforcement des capacités des
communes pour une meilleure appropriation des infrastructures réalisées, en concertation ou avec la création d'un espace

                                                                - 39 -

de concertation avec les riverains ou bénéficiaires. L'AGETUR-SA a associé les villes et autres partenaires à toutes les
étapes d'exécution des travaux (Attribution des marchés, suivi de chantiers et réceptions). Des comités de riverains ont été
mis en place dans le cadre des séances d'animation avec les SAIC.

L'Agence d'Exécution des Travaux Urbains a rempli convenablement ses missions vis-à-vis des Maîtres d'Ouvrages,
conformément aux dispositions des conventions particulières signées avec elle. Toutefois, la revue indépendante de la
passation des marchés a révélé des insuffisances qu'il est important de corriger. Ces recommandations exigent entre
autres de séparer les marchés des travaux et ceux de fournitures, de mettre en place ,en accord avec la banque ,une
procédure de gestion des offres anormalement basses et l'annoncer dans le DAO, de respecter les clauses du contrat
qui ont été annoncées dans le DAO, éviter les demandes de non objection non requises, élaborer un plan de passation
de marchés et le mettre à jour, renforcer les capacités du personnel technique en matière de passation de marché. Un
plan d'actions est en cours de mise en oeuvre pour l'amélioration des prestations de l'Agence.

4. B. 5.           Performances des SAICs

Les SAICs de Cotonou, Porto-Novo et Parakou ont été créés par arrêtés n° 02/131/DEP- ATL/SG/SEA du 05/03/99, n°
01/016/SG/SAE du 03/02/99 et n° 50/001/CCU/SG/SAAE du 30/12/99).
. Les performances notées sont :

ü       la sensibilisation des responsables municipaux et des élus locaux sur l'importance de l'approche intégrée
«Développement Communautaire de Quartier » ;
ü       l'identification des quartiers devant bénéficier en priorité des interventions publiques pour la phase 1 et la phase 2
dans les trois villes ;
ü       l'étude, l'analyse et le classement par ordre de priorités et validation en séance publique des projets de quartier et
des micro- projets proposés par les communautés ;
ü       l'assistance aux CDQ dans le suivi des projets avec l'appui des autres services communaux, en particulier la
Direction des Services Techniques (DST) ;
ü       l'information et la sensibilisation des communautés sur les projets de quartiers ;
ü       signature des protocoles d'accord ville-quartier.

Le bilan de la mission des SAICs au terme du projet s'est révélé très positif au point d'inciter d'autres communes non
impliquées dans le PGUD à en installer.

 Toutefois, des flottements ont été remarqués du fait de leur intégration dans le nouvel organigramme des communes et
placés sous l'autorité de directions. Cette situation qui a limité leur autonomie et émoussé leur ardeur pourrait réduire
leur visibilité et à terme hypothéquer leur efficacité.

4. B. 6.   Performances des CDQs

Les Comités de Développement des Quartiers (CDQ) ont été installés dans tous les quartiers et leurs Bureaux Exécutifs
ont participé à toutes les activités du projet avec l'appui de l'ONG DCAM. Leurs capacités ont été renforcées à travers des
visites d'échanges et l'organisation des ateliers de formation. Les performances enregistrées sont :
ü       organisation de plus de 702 rencontres par l'ensemble des Bureaux Exécutifs des CDQs des trois villes ;
ü       élaboration et suivi de la mise en oeuvre des plans de développement des quartiers ;
ü       mobilisation des parts locales ;
ü       démarrage du lotissement dans certains quartiers en vue d'identifier des réserves pour la construction de
micros-projets.

Le bilan de la mission des CDQs au terme du projet s'est révélé très positif au point d'inciter d'autres quartiers non
impliqués dans le PGUD à en installer.

Néanmoins, on peut observer que des difficultés de fonctionnement des CDQs ont existé et sont liées à l'absence d'un
secrétariat permanent mais aussi aux ressources financières pour faire face aux dépenses de fonctionnement. Aussi peut-on
remarquer que la
non prise en compte par le projet et par les villes d'un minimum d'équipements et de matériel dans les programmes des
micro-projets réalisés dans le cadre de la composante C, en vue de faciliter leur mise en service a été une grande difficulté


                                                                 - 40 -

à laquelle aucune solution n'a pu être trouvée sans oublier l'inexistence d'un mécanisme de financement pour promouvoir les
activités génératrices de revenus.

4. B. 7      Performances de l'ONG, maître d'oeuvre social

Pour aider les populations à identifier des solutions à leurs problèmes,et les mettre en oeuvre, l'ONG DCAM a été recrutée
pour assister la SERHAU-SA dans la conduite de la Composante C du projet. La méthodologie utilisée est essentiellement
basée sur l'approche participative qui a consisté en des concertations, des rencontres publiques, des tournées de suivi et
des séances de travail. Les activités de l'ONG se sont déroulées en trois grandes étapes qui sont : l'organisation des
résidents des quartiers, l'élaboration du Plan de Développement des Quartiers (PDQ) et la mise en oeuvre de ces plans.
Grâce à l'appui de l'ONG, et dans le cadre de la promotion de l'économie locale le programme d'épargne et de crédits à
base communautaire a été organisé

B)       A la clôture du projet

Tous les acteurs cités plus haut se sont investis dans l'exécution des différentes tâches réalisées lors de la clôture de la
phase 1 du projet en participant activement aux diverses séances de travail qui ont eu pour objet de faire l'évaluation du
projet en vue de tirer les leçons pour la phase 2. Dans ce cadre, ils ont pris part aux différentes séances de travail tenues
lors de la mission d'évaluation de la banque et en particulier à l'atelier d'évaluation de la phase 1 du projet qui a eu lieu
le 16 novembre 2004 à Cotonou.
Les membres du Gouvernement, en l'occurrence le Ministre de l'Environnement de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme, le
Ministre des Finances et de l'Economie et le Ministre de l'Intérieur, de la Sécurité et de la Décentralisation ont reçu en
audience à plusieurs reprises la délégation de la mission de supervision. Les villes ont également reçu la mission et lui ont
fait part des acquis, des difficultés et des attentes pour la phase 2. Elles lui ont fait visiter les infrastructures réalisées.
Les agences ont rédigé les rapports d'achèvement du projet chacune en ce qui la concerne, réalisé les différents audits de
clôture et mis tout en oeuvre pour la réussite de la mission de supervision de l'IDA. La SERHAU-SA a assuré
l'organisation de l'atelier d'évaluation.

V.      PERFORMANCE DES PARTENAIRES

5.1.    Performances de la Banque mondiale

Depuis le démarrage du projet, la Banque Mondiale a régulièrement effectué des missions d'identification et/ou de
supervision au Bénin. Au cours de ces missions, à travers les séances de travail, les visites des ouvrages dans les
communes et les rencontres avec les différents acteurs, le niveau d'exécution du projet, les difficultés rencontrées sont
examinés avec les parties impliquées, et les solutions sont recherchées. Ces missions sont sanctionnées par des aides -
mémoires qui font le point des séances de travail effectuées lors des missions en mettant l'accent sur les forces, faiblesses
et les difficultés liées à l'exécution du projet et les recommandations et directives de l'IDA pour améliorer les résultats
obtenus et atteindre les performances escomptées.

En dehors de ces performances, il importe d'évoquer quelques difficultés liées au retard de certains avis de non objection
de la Banque sur les dossiers qui lui sont soumis et le nombre élevé de non-objection requis pour la procédure de passation
de marché de la Banque mondiale et qui allonge les délais de délais de procédure .

5.2.    Performances de l'AFD

L'AFD a régulièrement effectué des missions de supervision du projet. Au cours de ces missions, le niveau d'exécution du
projet et les difficultés rencontrées sont examinés avec les parties impliquées, et les solutions sont recherchées. Elle a
assisté à des cérémonies d'inauguration et de mise en service de certains ouvrages avec le gouvernement.

Les partenaires au développement ont joué un rôle important dans la mise en oeuvre du projet, à travers l'appui
financier et technique qu'ils ont apporté et les différentes missions de supervision qu'ils ont effectuées tout au long de
son exécution.

VI.     ACQUIS ET IMPACTS DU PROJET

6.1.    Principaux acquis du projet


                                                                  - 41 -

C'est un projet qui, tout en permettant la mise en place des équipements et infrastructures de voirie et de drainage
nécessaires pour améliorer le niveau et la qualité des services rendus aux populations, a en même temps intégré
l'assistance et le renforcement de la capacité des services techniques et financiers de l'administration communale mais
aussi de l'administration centrale et décentralisée travaillant étroitement avec ces communes. Ceci a permis de développer
la capacité d'intervention de ces services afin de leur permettre d'accroître les ressources financières et techniques
nécessaires pour assurer l'entretien de ces équipements et infrastructures dont la quantité s'est accrue.

Par ailleurs, les travaux d'infrastructures de voirie et de drainage réalisés ont eu un impact socio-économique important
avec l'utilisation de la main d'oeuvre locale et des effets induits sur le petit commerce de chantier, l'exploitation de
carrières de sables, etc.
6.2.    Impacts sur la pauvreté et le chômage

Le projet a favorisé la création et le renforcement du tissu des PME et des consultants nationaux. La quasi-totalité des
travaux financés par le projet a été étudiée et supervisée par des bureaux d'études locaux et réalisés par des PME
béninoises. Ainsi plus de 60 entreprises ont été déployées et qui ont recruté et rémunéré plus de 484.590 mains ­
d'oeuvre représentant environ 500 000 hommes x jours de travail, pour une masse salariale de 1,7 milliards de F CFA et
pour 18 milliards environ de F CFA de travaux.

Au niveau des quartiers défavorisés pris en charge par le projet, les effets sociaux sont également constatés à travers :
ü       L'accès à l'eau potable ;
ü       La cohésion au sein des groupes socio ethniques et professionnels ;
ü       La dynamisation du tissu économique (Vingt un (21) groupements de femmes et d'hommes soit au moins 525
personnes et des centaines de promoteurs ont bénéficié de crédit) ;
ü       L'utilisation de la main d'oeuvre locale pour la réalisation des micros-projets et la création de plus de 30 emplois
permanents ;
ü       L'amélioration des relations entre les organes municipaux et les communautés.

6. 3.   Effets environnementaux

Les impacts des ouvrages réalisés sont dans une large mesure jugés satisfaisants. Ces ouvrages ont permis (i) d'améliorer
l'accessibilité des populations bénéficiaires aux différents services de base, (ii) de constater un regain d'activités avec
l'apparition de nouvelles initiatives (iii) et une plue value foncière surtout dans les secteurs avoisinants ces ouvrages. Ce
regain d'activités relève d'une amélioration de la circulation des déplacements, favorisé par les meilleures conditions
offertes par le Projet. La construction des collecteurs a permis d' assainir environ 1250 hectares de bas-fonds contribuant
ainsi à améliorer les conditions de vie de plus de 299 000 habitants. Les impacts environnementaux découlent du curage
régulier des caniveaux, de l'entretien des rues, de la collecte des ordures ménagères. D'autres impacts sont également
notés : il s'agit des impacts socio-sanitaires et éducatifs liés à la réhabilitation et la construction d'infrastructures
éducatives dans les quartiers défavorisés , des impacts liés aux voies revêtues ( limitation des effets de pollution liés à un
environnement initial poussiéreux).

6.4.   Synergie

Le projet s'est déroulé de manière satisfaisante et certains dispositifs institutionnels mis en place ont eu un écho très
favorable notamment les SAICS et les CDQ mis en place dans le cadre de la composante C. Ainsi au niveau des trois
communes à statut particulier des CDQ ont été installés par les communautés à la base au niveau d'autres quartiers.
Certaines des communes ordinaires se sont inspirées du montage institutionnel du PGUD pour installer dans leurs
communes des Services techniques, des SAICS et susciter la création des CDQ au niveau de leurs quartiers. C'est le cas
des communes de Ouidah, Abomey, Bohicon, Lokossa, Natitingou, Kandi.

VII.    LECONS ET SUGGESTIONS POUR LA PHASE 2

     Au regard des difficultés rencontrées, les suggestions suivantes sont faites pour la phase 2 :

1)      La libération effective des contre parties avant le démarrage des différentes composantes du projet.
2)      La recherche et la mise en oeuvre de stratégie de vulgarisation et de transmission des compétences dans les services
afin d'atténuer les impacts négatifs de la mobilité des cadres.
3)      La prise en compte des charges de fonctionnement liées à la décentralisation dans la définition des indicateurs de

                                                                 - 42 -

3)     La prise en compte des charges de fonctionnement liées à la décentralisation dans la définition des indicateurs de
performance des communes.
4)     Le choix dans la mesure du possible de sites viabilisés et accessibles pour les projets ou le cas échéant, la
viabilisation des sites pour la mise en oeuvre des projets, en recherchant une complémentarité entre la composante B et la
composante C.
5)     La prise en compte des équipements et matériels dans la définition des contributions des différentes parties dans les
programmes de réalisation des micro-projets, en vue de faciliter leur mise en service rapide.
6)     La mise en oeuvre de stratégie permettant d'assurer le fonctionnement des CDQs à partir de l'exploitation des
équipements socio-communautaires.
7)     La mise en place d'un mécanisme de financement pour la promotion des activités génératrices de revenus pour les
groupes sociaux, notamment dans les quartiers défavorisés.
8)     La révision de la procédure de passation de marché de la Banque mondiale par la diminution du nombre des
demandes de non objection en vue de raccourcir les délais de procédure.
9)     La formation des PME en vue d'accroître leur performance.
10)    La mise en place d'une structure de coordination des activités de la deuxième phase du Projet au niveau de
l'Administration




                                                                 - 43 -

Additional Annex 9. APL Triggers for the Second Phase


First Phase Key
indicators established
in 1999 triggering the            Cotonou                Porto-Novo           Parakou

Second Phase of the
APL

                             Target/actual           Target/actual       Target/actual

Collection rate for billed   75%/67%                 40%/48%             65%/72%
urban taxes (property and
professional taxes).

Percent of the CU's          85%/81%                 75-80%/66%          75-80%/72%
recurrent costs budget
allocated and spent on
urban services (i.e. all
recurrent costs except
administrative operating
expenses).

Allocations and              25-30%/23%              25-30%/23%          25-30%/43%
expenditures on routine
maintenance of roads and
drainage systems account
for 25-30% of total recurrent
cost expenditures in the
budgets of the 3 CUs; of     100% contracted out     100% contracted out 100% contracted out
these expenditures 85% are
for routine maintenance
implemented by private
contractors.

Recoverable tax arrears      80%/103%                80%/133%            80%/79%
collected by the General
Tax Department/Ministry of
Finance on behalf of the
three CUs is more than
80% for the period
1995-2000.

Number of neighborhood       2/4                     1/3                 1/1
projects reviewed and
approved by the
Community Initiative
Support Units (CISUs).




                                              - 44 -

- 45 -

                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33923
0°                            1°E                                   2°E                                                 3°E                                             4°E
                                                                                                                                     To                      To
                                                                                                                                   Dosso                    Sokoto

                                                                                                                     NIGER         NIGER
                                                                                                                            RIVER


                                                BURKINA                                                                                                                                              12°N

                     BENIN                        FASO                                       ékrou                               Malanville
                                                                                           MMékrou




                                                   Pendjari

                                                                                                           Alibori
                                                                             n    s
                                                                       t  ai
              To                                                                                              Kandi
            Dapaong                                              ou  n
                                                                                                                                     Sota

  11°N                                                      M                                                                                                                                        11°N
                                                   Panjari                                               A L I B O R I
                                                                     Mékrou
                                                                     Mékrou

                                            a
                                        ko r
                                             ATA K O R A
                                   ta
                                 A                                                                                                                                                                  Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kainji
                                  Natitingou
                                                                                         Bembéréké
                                                                                         Bembéréké                        é

                      Koumongou                                                                                     Tassin
                                                                                                                    assiné


10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                 10°N



                                                      Djougou
                                                                              Ou
                                                                              Ouémé
                                                                                  émé                  B O R G O U                                            NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                   Kaiama
                                 To
                               Kabou           D O N G A                               PARAKOU              Okpara


                                                                                Alpouro




9°N                                                                                                                                                                                                   9°N

                        TOGO
                                                                                                                                          0       20       40       60       80         100 Kilometers



                                                                                                                                          0            20             40              60 Miles


    GHANA
                                                                   C O L L I N E S                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
8°N                                                                   Savalou                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any    8°N
                                                                                                                                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                        1°E
                                                                  Zou          Dassa-
                                                                               Zoumé
                                                                               Zoumé

                                                                                         Ouémé                                                                    BENIN
                                                                                                                                               FIRST DECENTRALIZED
                                                          Couf                                 PLATEAU
                                                              fo                                                                                CITY MANAGEMENT
                                                                    Z O U
                                                                Abomey          Covéé
                                                                                Cov                                                                            PROJECT
                                             COUFFO                        Bohicon
                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT CITIES

7°N                                                                                                     Pobé
                                                                                                        Pobé                  7°N
                                      To                                                                                                                    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
                                    Notsé                 Aplahouéé
                                                          Aplahou                                 OUEME
                                                              Dogbo                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
   Lake
   Volta                                                                                                                   To
                                                    M O N O                                                Sakété
                                                                                                           Sakété                                           RIVERS
                                                                                                                        Ibadan

                                                           Lokossa    ATLANTIQUE                                                                            MAIN ROADS

                                                             Mono       Abomey-Calavi                                                                       RAILROADS
                                                                                                          PORTO NOVO
                                               To                                                                                                           DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                              Lomé                Ouidah
                                                                            COTONOU                     LITTORAL                                  BIGHT OF BENIN
0°                            1°E                                   2°E                           Gulf of Guinea        3°E                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                  APRIL 2005

