Page  1
CONCORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3234 BEN
Project Agreement
(Decentralized City Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE D’ETUDES REGIONALES D’HABITAT ET  
D’AMENAGEMENT URBAIN, SOCIETE D’ECONOMIE MIXTE
Dated July 1, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3234 BEN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and SOCIETE D’ETUDES  REGIONALES D’HABITAT ET D’AMENAGEMENT URBAIN, 
SOCIETE D’ECONOMIE MIXTE (SERHAU-SEM).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,900,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions 
that SERHAU-SEM agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
SERHAU-SEM, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to SERHAU-SEM on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said SERHAU Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS SERHAU-SEM, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SERHAU-SEM declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out Parts A, C.2* and C.3 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A, C.2* 
and C.3 of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and SERHAU-SEM shall otherwise agree, SERHAU-SEM shall 
carry out Parts A, C.2* and C.3 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SERHAU-SEM shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and 
maintenance, respectively) in respect of the SERHAU Project Agreement. 
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SERHAU-SEM shall:
(i)
prepare, jointly with the CUs, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association and furnish to the Association not 
later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
SERHAU-SEM, a plan for the future operation of Parts A, C.2 and 
C.3 of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with SERHAU-SEM on said plan.
Section 2.04. SERHAU-SEM shall duly perform all its obligations under the SERHAU 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SERHAU-SEM 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the SERHAU Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SERHAU-SEM shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the SERHAU Subsidiary Agreement and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
SERHAU-SEM shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SERHAU-SEM of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the SERHAU Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SERHAU-SEM
Section 3.01. SERHAU-SEM shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SERHAU-SEM shall at all times operate and maintain its assets, 
equipment and other property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. SERHAU-SEM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
Page  3
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SERHAU-SEM shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition.
(b) SERHAU-SEM 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements), 
including those for Special Account B and the SERHAU Project 
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as 
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, SERHAU-SEM shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial system for the Project in order to 
enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable 
to the Association. Each such report shall: 
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and application of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and 
show separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; 
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explain variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, SERHAU-SEM shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SERHAU-SEM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
Page  4
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify SERHAU-SEM of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For SERHAU-SEM:
Société d’Etudes Régionales d’Habitat
 et d’ Aménagement Urbain, Société d’Economie Mixte
32-34, rue 390
01 BP 2338
Cotonou, République du Bénin
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SERHAU-SEM , 
may be taken or executed by the Director General of SERHAU-SEM or such other person or 
persons as the Director General shall designate in writing, and SERHAU-SEM shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore Ahlers
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  5
SOCIETE D'ETUDES REGIONALES D’HABITAT  
   ET D’AMENAGEMENT URBAIN, SOCIETE D’ECONOMIE MIXTE 
By /s/ Lucien Tonoukouin
Authorized Representative
